ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you. [[Question to the Government on the democratic practices of the Generality]] [[300-00181/11]] The eighth item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on the democratic practices of the Generality, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Andrea Levy. The one who passes, Mrs. Levy, who hasn't arrived the counselor. [[Andrea Levy Soler intervenes without using the microphone.]] No, no; I don't think he's in a radio interview; he's coming... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, if you want to start, go ahead.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.2.0	Oh, no, no... I'll start with you, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.3.0	Mrs. Levy, the one you decide...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.4.0	I'll start with you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.5.0	They're telling me he's coming in, but you decide. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.6.0	It's just that it's so transparent that it's transparent already, almost... [[Long break. The Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency enters the Sessions Hall.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.7.0	Mrs. Levy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.8.0	Thank you. Thank you for meeting me, Mr. Romeva. I know, I thought you'd be interested in my intervention, too, because I think it's sometimes good to take the time to recap. I know that you, with this in a hurry, go very fast, go with a lot of anxiety, and I think that..., today I invite you to do a recapitulation exercise – recapitulation exercise. Because in this Parliament we hear a lot of use of the words 'democrats and 'democracy,' 'party of democracy, and that everything you are doing responds absolutely clearly to what it is and what should be a democracy, and I have, I say, prepared this intervention as a decalogue, a decalogue on, at least, undemocratic practices, practices of low democratic quality, which you have been perpetrating, from the Government, from the Parliament, from the institutions, for 20 months. Practice number one: invent a false plebiscite and then invent the result of the ballot box. If the 27-S was a plebiscite, as you put it, you lost it, and yet you did not attend to the result of the ballot boxes – ballot boxes, which you like so much – for those ballot boxes..., did not respect their election results. And yet they said, "Now or never: we do not respect the result of the ballot box and we move on. Democratic Quality? – question point. Second: "We have an electoral mandate. Which one? Where? On what page did he point out that you were going to hold a referendum? Democratic Quality? – question point. They also said – and that goes for the second point – that in eighteen months we would have the Catalan Republic. Did they then lie, or do they lie now? - I'm asking. Thirdly, the Venice Commission supports us, supports us and supports us. We're going to send you a letter. Mr Puigdemont told you in this Chamber, in this Parliament. And I say: when you do not agree, then is it that you are wrong, or is the Venice Commission wrong? Because of this you know a lot; to blame him, when you do not give reason, to the rest, you also know a lot. So the Venice Commission is democratic? – question point. Is the unilateral path a very democratic one? You're right, aren't you? – question point. Of course, it is such a democratic way that you have the officials on your side – irony. Of course..., no, they don't have them, and that's why – and that's why – they're running away when they're representing them at the recruitment tables to carry out all those contracts to carry out illegal referendums. And, of course, in case it wasn't clear to you that this is so democratic, to officials who might be put through their heads not to comply with their orders and mandates, we threaten them, right? Amendment of Parliament's Rules of Procedure: this is an act of pure democracy, because only two of the six groups in this House support it. You tell them in half an hour, there, behind closed doors, with night and light, because it is an act of extreme democracy that cannot answer the opposition, lest you tell them that you are not right. And, of course, it's known that when you're right... that's not democracy. Fifth point of my decalogue. Sixth point: the opinions of the Council of State Guarantees and the information notes of Parliament's lawyers are not democracy, are they not? Therefore, when they do not give reason, these opinions are not valid, those notes of the lawyers are also not valid, as happened in this parliamentary chamber when they reported that certain laws..., or as, for example, that the budgets of the Generalitat were not subject to statutory law..., you fail to comply with them. Is that democracy? – question point. Seventh point: the personal tax data of Catalans must be spied on, because that is clearly an act of democracy. It is no longer enough to be warned by associations of judges, professional associations..., no; the fiscal data of Catalans, as one senator said, deserved to be spied on. And when we asked you about that, and that the Vidal Commission be opened in this Parliament, you said no, because vetoing commissions of inquiry on the alleged investigation of tax data is democracy – question point. Eight: attacks on dissent. That goes in the chapter of'great democracy, huh? [[the speaker laughs]] , because, of course, all those who can express themselves against the independenceist theses – such as, for example, Catalan Civil Society – are called phalangists by great democrats like yourself. Yesterday we knew that there was already the first such judgment in the courts because, precisely, political pluralism was not respected in Catalonia. Is it democracy to call one who thinks differently from you as a phalangist? – Question point, Mr Romeva. Ninth point: the law of legal transition, a law of full democracy, because it is known to all Members of this House, right? , and because it's being done with all the clarity, so clearly that we have to know it through media coverage. Portadas, on the other hand, that lead us to worry very much about the democratic quality that the independenceists have in their heads, because, among other things, everything that can be thought contrary in the media, in officials, in judges, will be completely eradicated from the face of the earth in those independent Catalonias that you have in your head. The Law of Legal Transition– which, by the way, transition from what to what? , because when one wants to break and destroy, it does not pass, but, if it does, makes leaps into the void, but that is already a stylistic advice that I give to you, but well –.... the law of legal transitoryness, element of democracy, right, Mr. Romeva? – question point. And then, the tenth point is already the final beak, the announcement of the date and the question. A date and a question that we thus raise, to the citizens, without having any idea how you are going to do it, with what guarantees you are going to do it or with what media the Catalan society would have to carry out that supposed consultation. Is that democracy? To announce things without giving the Catalans the peace of mind that they have a government that what they announce is absolutely legal? Are you sure that in the mirror of democracy you are reflected after all this decalogue? Are they sure that they are doing well that in politics what is not possible is false, and that they lie – they lie – and cheat, when they talk about democracy, when what they really want to impose is their political imposition, worrying about what is democracy or not? You are concerned, because in post-politics, when you break the relationship between facts, causes and consequences, this becomes an unpredictable space subject to your whims, as the ten I have just told you here, that you should make you rethink if you really are a valiant democracy. And it also becomes a perfect solvent for political responsibility. Look, I do not deny you that you can have passion in your causes, that you have it, and it is good that you have it, because in politics, having passion for your causes is very good, but in democracy it is no less important to have ethics of responsibility and measure in your actions. None of these ten actions that I have just read to you in this decalogue of your undemocratic practices responds to what would be a democratic political leader who guarantees the rights and freedoms of his citizens. And, therefore, even if you are in a hurry – in a hurry – we would ask you not to let democracy, that of all – not yours – be left on the road, that of all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.9.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Levy. Reply by Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.10.0	Good morning, everybody. From the start, obviously, he apologizes for these minutes of delay, in front of a bus. But in any case, ma'am Levy, with all due respect, huh? There must be a lot of courage to come, in the name of the party you represent, to speak of ethics, responsibility and measure. In view of the fact that they have nine hundred cases of corruption, the term ‘measure' does not know with five parameters the qualification. That said, allow me to be absolutely frank; since you have made a list, I will answer it. I know you have a special need..., and I've seen it a little nervous, in this sense, and so I can hear it, because you're losing the battle of that relationship you want to impose and this post-truth that we have so many times lamented, at the political level and at the level of a lot of communication means. But the problem is that you have made some statements that you certainly don't believe them yourself – and you don't believe them yourself – and you have noticed yourself in the mood, that you were shaking and looking at another band... but in any case, it's normal. To say that the results of 27-S do not support..., escort, the 48_per_cent voted political formations that clearly defended an option that Catalonia was a state; the 39_per_cent voted against it, and the 12_per_cent did not... That, in plebiscitaris terms, is 55 to 45. Place yourself as you like, place yourself as you like; this is the result. That said, I don't know where these months have been; in fact, you have been particularly absent in plenary debates, and so perhaps some of the important debates have been lost. But you should, in any case, be informed of the willingness of this Government to expand more than at these times by giving us parliamentary mandates. If we're talking about reference, it's because 80 percent of this country says it, he asks, to vote yes and to vote no, or because they don't know what they want to do. And this is the demand, this is the cry that you would have to listen to if you were really a person who believes in democracy. But it's obvious that you want to deny a reality, and make it up and turn it into something that you can agree with... not here, but the rest of the state, because you know that here you don't have any more practical mass. Malauramente – malauramente –..., if they work their eyes, they see that there is a reality that asks them. And that's what we, like the government and the majority, and like the majority of Parliament that we have represented here, we need to do with total peace. You mentioned the Venice Commission. No one here has said that the Venice Commission takes us; here what we have said – here what we have said – is that we have all the legitimacy of the world to do what other countries have done. In fact, if you look at the world, more than thirty countries have appeared to us, many through references, and many through unilateral references, and there are – and there are. And there is no problem: the world works, from this perspective, with normality, as will the day that we democratically and legitimately decide. And, obviously, when you play the international texts... maybe the first one you should ask is to get it. I, from this perspective, listen, we follow a little strict. You're talking about changing the Rules. Home, bearing in mind that the Venice Commission itself warned, lastly, of irresponsibility or, at least, in the best of cases, that it could have done better, of the reform of the Law of the Constitutional Court – which, of course, was done for a single reading, where you criticise the Rules so much – I think that I would have been a little more cautious, in your case, before I did this reflection. But it's that, besides, listen, we have other precedents. What you say is that it cannot be touched, that it is the Constitution, we have perfectly the experience and record of how it was modified to plan to incorporate the presuppositional estabilitative, and this was made a summer with night and, obviously, with more than a few, to say the least, global democratic guarantees. This is the reality in which we move. And when you talk about the state in its conjunction, man, taking into account that we already practically carry forty years of democracy, I believe, in the best of cases, better, and in many cases directly already failed, that you put me in question the fact that someone is a speechist... That, by the way, it's legal today, it's perfectly legal: you can be a speechist and it's not a legal threat, you don't go to jail to be a speechist, today. In fact, there are formations, such as the Francisco Franco Foundation, that earn money from the State; this is perfectly legal. What you say in this state that works so well is incomprehensible is that asking for something as normal in the world is to vote for quarrels and quarrels and quarrels. That's what they don't understand. And that I do not understand or interpret as an absolutely formal or healthy democracy, it is not the case. So, when you're worried about these issues, at least from the qualifying point of view, man, we're looking at being a little too thoughtful at the time of what a risk means, from the point of view of legality, and what isn't. And what is absolutely extraordinary is that, after forty years without or as much as condemning the franchise, today you can defend many of these theories that have been criminally theses without any modestness – you consider that you listen to 80_percent of the citizenry, that you want to even condemn yourself for doing something that, according to you, has no impact, as it was putting the ballots – today we have, therefore, people who have been condemned, people who have been disabled, we have a council that is at these times processed for doing an absolutely legitimate thing and in the competitive march that we have, that is a contest to enable people to buy the ballots, and that, for example, we have a council that is at these times processed for doing an absolutely legitimate thing and in the competitive march that we have, that is a contest to enable people to buy the ballots, that has been disabled, that is, that is, that is to say, that we have not done anything at this time, that we have not done anything at all, that we can't say, that we can't say, that we can't say that we can't say that we can't say that we can't say that we can't really. And, look, I'll say it in a very clear way, too, as I said in Madrid, and it would be very good for you to come there, because I know it was often – probably even there – and I'll say it even in the castle, because surely – surely – you can hear it better: « Catalonia is not a problem, but Spain has a problem in Catalonia: it's called democracy. And that's what they need to hear. That's what I said in Madrid, I say it here and I'll repeat it as many times as you need. And even so – I must say – I thank you for coming here to talk about democratic quality, because if you want to talk about democratic quality... The first thing to do when you want to talk about respect for democracy is to ask, listen and respect people's opinion. It's simple, in the background; it's simple. Democracy is that, huh? - Democracy is that. And that's what's going on around the world. And to you, so much for the references..., listen, look at the history of Europe – no longer say « of the world, say « of Europe – of the last years. If that's what's absolutely normal. Yeah, yeah, I can already look at the subway, which probably won't fall into the capdamunt. But in any case, it seems absolutely extraordinary to me that you came here to talk about democratic quality. But it's that, plus, I'll tell him something else. When at these times we are defending freedom of expression, freedom of assembly, freedom to make a reference, we are doing it with all the guarantees, respect and, above all, recognition to all the people who have been fighting all this time because today we can democratically decide what we want to do and what we want to be. And I say this because, at the time of talking about threats – which is what you said, threats – here the only threats we hear every day, constantly – constantly –..., is the threat of the weak argument, is the threat of the fragile of hope, is the threat of the one who has no proposal to make and no offer to put on the table. The threat – the threat – only sees on the one hand, that they are the structures of the State in which you at these times hold the Government. I think they should be a little more rigorous, all folds. Miri, for all you want to do, with your interventions here or with your resources to justice, because I assume that when you talk about vetoing commissions, you have to talk about the Catalonian operation, the Catalonian operation commission at the Congress, that you have had so much desire to make manifest..., or you have nothing to say about the statements of the Minister of the Interior or the ancient and already obviously ceased director of the Anti-Fraud Office? Do you have anything to say about the police body that is basically dedicated to pursuing opinions? You don't have anything to say, do you? You don't have anything to say, do you? Doesn't that have anything to do with Catalonia? Does this have anything to do with the legitimate – legitimate – demand of most of this country, to express itself and accept the result of that expression? Let's talk, Mrs Levy, about democratic quality. Talk to us. We have many gains; so many gains that on October 1st we will make a reference for everyone to express themselves. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.11.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Romeva. I got the word "Mrs. Levy."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.12.0	Look, Mr Romeva, you have not only arrived late, but you can see that I have made you nervous, in my speech, because you have made an intervention absolutely unworthy of a Generalitat adviser for the childish way of trying to disqualify this humble Member who is getting nervous in the atrium. Hey, you take classes in oratory. Since his office is a lie, why not add the oratory guru? How childish! Is that really the level? I'm really surprised. I had you in more consideration, believe me. And, of course, then I'll ask you to tell me... I know he misses me a lot, it's clear, but he has me..., just as if he turns a little bit he realizes that democracy is not only in his bank, that maybe he's in the ranks above too – too. But, of course, if you're inventing results... He says: "55; no, they took out 47. But, of course, then they're inventing that they have 80 percent, right? , who support theirs, and then vote only 47_per_cent. I don't know, the numbers honestly – honestly – don't fit me – don't fit me. Look, the problem is not Spain or its Government; the problem is you, the Government of the Generalitat, who has invented, as I told you before, the decalogue of the flight forward to protect the great lie that we have seen on September 27 – the great flight forward. They did not count on enough votes to carry out their plans, and here they continue, perpetuating lies after lies. The problem is not political will, it is not; the problem is the imposition of its will. You want the laws, you want democracy..., you want the rule of law to conform to everything that suits you. And if they don't give them the reason, then it's not valid, then we have to invent it. But it's just that the rules of the game were made to protect us from people like you, who want to change what is not right for you, what gives us reason. The problem is not democracy, the problem is the will that you have to make us submit to all your wills: it is the submission that you want us to have all the rest that we do not think like you that your will is being fulfilled. Look, if you want a solution, you're gonna feel the blackmail. If you want a solution, there is a possibility of dialogue, there is a possibility of negotiation. Or is it not democratic to invite the president of the Generalitat to go to Congress to explain his plans? Is it not democratic? Why don't you go? Why does what remains of the mutant Convergence have a motion presented at the Congress of Deputies for the next week saying that we have to talk about the referendum in Catalonia, when they have even tabled the date and the question? Does he not realize that you are leaving democracy on the road? It is that on his train there are wagons that are derailing, because, listen, at the table of the right to decide, in the parties that support this alleged referendum of unilateral way, there are some that have already watered down. If they're less and less, they're more and more isolated. That's his problem, which is getting more radical. And they come to tell the rest that, of course, it's our fault, that we're not the Democrats. But have you looked into the mirror of democracy? Really? Maybe they'll take a surprise. I'm telling you from the heart. I insist, if you want a solution, you water yourself with blackmail. You will find your hand stretched out to talk about everything that concerns and occupies Catalans – as, by the way, by the Spanish Government we have been doing all this time in which you have been perpetrating the lie. If it has not been recognized in the decalogue that I have read to you of low democratic quality, it is that, seriously, we have a problem of knowing what democracy is. Because you threaten officials, the officials flee when making the recruitment tables... you don't have an electoral process in which you're going to have officials, you're already turning to the volunteers. Can you explain to me what electoral process this is, if you are not afraid? If you were not afraid, you would go to the Congress of Deputies; but not there, because if someone gives you the reason, then you are not a Democrat. Hey, is everyone wrong, against you? Everyone? I'd be surprised, really. Reflect yourself in the mirror of democracy, because it seems to me that there has been a long time since they appeared. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.13.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Levy. There's the word the Romeva Councilman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.14.0	I consider her to be a magnificent Tertullian, and another thing is that, when it comes to making concrete proposals, we come to the same conclusions, which is obviously not. And I'll remind you – as you may know, but you haven't had time to read it – some of the things that have come out later on at the international level and that remind you, that they are in the Government of the State, which is the democratic quality of this State, of which we, as at least, want to plan if we want to remain part of it. Just yesterday there was an explicit condemnation of the European Court of Human Rights for which the President of the Basque Parliament, Mr Atutxa, was disqualified. Home, it seems to me that someone made some important mistake, at the time, that today might be good for you to recognize. The report of the European Court of Justice: the Spanish State is the country of the European Union where judges believe that promotions depend more on political values. They say justice; they don't say this government or this majority. They say it the same way. Something must have had, of value, that thought. The Council of Europe has once again criticized them, and there are a few – there are a few – for the lack of judicial independence. If Montesquieu sees this situation, he is remorseful to his grave and would regret precisely the lack of separation of powers we have in the State. Moreover, the Council of Europe reminds them in a particularly flagrant way that you do not complete – not the Government of the Generality, you – 75 per cent of the recommendations they make. In the same line, Rights International Spain, Judges for Democracy and other organizations of lawsuits denounce before United Nations constantly – constantly – this lack of judicial independence. Only 15_percent of the citizens of the State believe that the courts apply the law fairly; of the State, not of the Generality, not of Catalonia – of the State, 15_percent of the State. Are we talking about democratic quality, Mrs. Levy? Are we talking about democratic quality, really? This is what you are at these moments practicing. And, in this sense, he also asks that a text be read that has appeared in this chamber a long time ago, the report of the Synod of Greuges, especially entitled Delays in the matter of human rights: freedom of expression of the elected bodies and separation of powers to the Kingdom of Spain. I know you haven't been very grateful, because when you were talking about miracles... it's one of those miracles that, frankly, when one looks at it, it's embarrassing a little – it's embarrassing a little. Therefore, it is very important and very necessary that you, beyond some diaries and heads who always speak with all pride, that "before the unity of Spain than the truth..., it would be good for you to get some reports a little more rigorous, such as this same syndic or these same ones that I have expressed to you on an international scale. Lady Levy, when you come to talk about democracy or democratic quality, man, come with your dues – come with your dues – because we are ahead of a possibility and I invite you to join it – I invite you to join it –: to overcome this darkness from which we should have gone forty years ago and that we have not just come out. We haven't just got out and we want to get out. But not only in Catalonia, we also want to help the rest of the State emerge from this darkness. Because, I repeat, Catalonia is not the problem, Catalonia is the symptom. Catalonia is the symptom of a fragility of a state that has not known or evolved and that has been secreted by some elites, some logical and above all some historical perversions based on a worrying and in some cases, frankly, very difficult to hear from some friends and friends. What the people of Catalonia want is to vote, and you didn't attribute sentences to me that I didn't say. I did not say that 80_per_cent is coming back to us, to whom we want a Catalan republic; I said that 80_per_cent asks to face this question through democracy. And I have specified that, of these, there are some who will vote that yes, others who will vote that no and others who still don't know what they want to vote for. Don't lie anymore. I know it's hard to practice, in your case, but it would be an exercise of extreme responsibility... as you said? , « Ethical responsibility and measures. I liked this; I buy it: ethical responsibility and measure. Apply 'ho. It'll probably do them a lot of good. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.15.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Romeva. [[Asking the Government about co-education]] [[300-00182/11]] The new item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on co-education, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. To expose her, has the word Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.16.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor; good morning to everyone. I'm not going to turn this into a war of scifs or a sterilized debate on which I'm going to say that coeducation is not a priority for the government, you're going to say that yes, and, beyond that, we won't get much further, are we? What we simply want is to put into practice what is approved in this Parliament in the matter of co-education, and, moreover, with a broad consensus, and what we want to be practical, direct; facts and actions. Mirin, a little more than a month ago he presented the results of the pilot test of the Xarxa programme of schools and institutes for equal treatment and non-discrimination in Barcelona. It was a first phase that ended in six primary and five secondary centres between the 2014 and 2016 courses, a test where they worked together and consortia and the Generality participated. It has affected three thousand smaller and close to three hundred teachers. And, moreover, it has been evaluated by the Department of Social Psychology of the University of Barcelona. And why did you want to start talking about this pilot test? So, because he has shown us that it works, he has shown us that there are things that can help us solve the problem that we have today, he has shown us that teaching is the lever of changing attitudes in the students. Therefore, we must base ourselves on the formation of the faculty, which must be face-to-face yes or yes, which must be equal to the whole educational community and which must be taught to expert persons. Professionals such as Miquel Missé, Marina Subirats, Miriam Alemán or Beatriu Macià, among others, participated in this pilot test. On the part of the faculty there have been statistically significant changes in gender equality; in the student there has been a significant increase in the perception of physical, verbal, cyber and sexual violence; relationships have begun to be more egalitarian; they have begun to unravel stereotypes, and have improved the use of inclusive language, among other things. That's to say, it shows us what to do and shows us how to do it, because, besides, we have the standard mark: coeducation is collected in the LEC, in the State, in the Law of Equality, in the Law that regulates the rights of LGBTI people. And, despite all these laws, at the moment what we have is this pilot test, which is up to three hundred dozen of the 77,000 we have in Catalonia; the coexistence project, which is very good, but which only touches a pot, such as bullying, and a distance on the Teaching web where there is the offer of two online courses that are not mandatory, some teaching resources, bibliography and some specific experiences in very concrete centers. That's all, and we don't even have it to start with. She spoke to Mercè Otero one day, who is an expert in coeducation and has attended various occasions in this Parliament, and explained to me how the struggle for coeducation began with Ferrer and Gardia, but more organizedly forty years ago, with the first Assembly of Teaching Donations. And it's desperate to see how forty years later, four decades later, we continue to claim the same things: not just mixed schooling, which is the most basic, but depatricate education, and that goes through equal opportunities, gender justice, and the awareness and prevention of rape. How can they do that? So we propose six measures: mixed schooling; space occupation, games and games; language use; curriculum review; affective education, and teacher training. In mixed schooling, as we have talked enough in this Parliament specifically about the need not to finance public money the choices that secrete by sex, so I won't be there any more. For what it does to the control of the space, as demonstrated in different studies, children occupy the center of the patient and the children are relegated to the margins, because as they move in the space they also open up. And, in addition, this favors the architectural composition of the ducks, which have eliminated the green areas and practically the sports tracks have swept all over the country. And what can they do? So, the Subirats Navy proposes to establish three different areas of play: one area of tranquility, one area of movement and psychomotorism, and the other, an area of experimentation and contact nature. And to the schools where, for the sake of space, it is not possible to tend these three different areas, it would be good to redistribute it according to the day of the week or marking it itineraries. And, besides, that's not so much a question of assumption, but it's a question of willingness, because it could be done from now on. For what he does in language, what he doesn't call himself is invisible and doesn't exist. Language conditions our way of seeing and hearing the world. We see that the generic male – and it's not random – has been used as the representation of the human gene, while the female plural is only represented by a particular gene. And to start working there are some very simple proposals on written language, such as replacing the teacher's room with the teacher's room, the director's desk with the address, the student's and non-student's desk, or, in the cards addressed to families, simply to say the same, the family and non-students. And in oral language, more than the effort to be made at the educational centre specifically by teachers and educational support staff, that would encourage children to speak in public, because it has been found that, if they say that women speak more, we speak more in circles and in reduced groups, but not in public. For what he does to the school curriculum, so, even though text books are part of a learning model that is not ours and that has been shown to be more obsolete each time, what we find is a total absence of women to text books. 2012 was an evaluation and found that references to women's literature books were only 12_per_cent, and in the case of social science books women only appeared 6_per_cent. Only in the books of foreign languages is that percentage up to 35_per_cent, and this is because when you start speaking a language the first things you learn are the daily tasks, the household tasks. And so we find ourselves with the fact that women don't have historical memory, right? Who was talking about Hypatia until Amenábar made the film Agora? Or who speaks of Asia, which is only known because she was the wife of Pericles, but it turns out that she was the one who gave her the speeches and, moreover, led the party of the poor in ancient Athens, right? As Bel Olid says in her book Feminism of Butxaca, who talks about the clubs of the Jacobin women? ; from the amazons of the commune of Paris? ; of the strugglers of the obre movement, like the Aleksandra Kollontai? How many women painters, writers, inventors have not signed with male pseudonyms? How many have been stored in the shadow of their husbands? ; why was Jaume Roig, who, moreover, was a misogynist, and not Isabel de Villena, who only looked at her from the feminist perspective, but not literary, when her work Vita Christi was more read at her own time than the same Tirant lo Blanc? ; where are the women who worked at the Renaissance workshops of painting and sculpture? ; why Rosalind Franklin, who was in charge of the discovery of DNA, did not get the Nobel, but 'lvan take three men? So, because they've taken us out of history. We've had all the inventions, advances, artworks... And the worst part of it is that the résumés, right now, today, in the 21st century, are still unrighteous. And besides, it's not that the women are no longer present, but that, besides, the contents continue to feel totally androcentric. Why are the themes that have historically affected women – for example, child models – not in the books, but do we have all the details of the court of Lluís XVI? Well, then, it's time to change it: there's a lot of material that makes gender justice, and it's just willing to start using it. The fifth point I wanted to talk about was emotional education. Issues such as the prevention of male violence, how to establish healthy emotional relationships, how to prevent unwanted embarrassments, sexually transmitted diseases, how to enjoy sex, how to prevent settlement... so, well, all this is basic for the personal development of children and of us, as in society, is not widespread and is always piling up and eavesdropping on the perverse dynamics of transversality. What is the proposal that AIDS Studies and other entities make? So, the Danish model, which is to establish it as a mandatory assignment with very clear contents, which are the recommendations, moreover, that makes the World Health Organization. That is to say, the assignment is already up, and only to introduce it as it is to many other countries. And, to conclude, the formation of the faculty would be the last point. According to Article 21 of the Law of Equality, the education administration must incorporate co-education into all levels and modes of the education system and must offer co-education training to its teaching staff. Moreover, it must guarantee the presence of people with knowledge in co-education to the educational organ. Now, the only thing we find is voluntary and online training. We believe that this formation should be in the Magisterium and should be in the course of curriculum adaptation, and, for what it does to the acting professorship, it should be a mandatory and face-to-face formation, yes, in order not to harm them in their working hours and seeking compensatory measures. Then we'll move on. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.17.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. To answer, has the word Ms. Meritxell Ruiz, Councillor of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.18.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, you have made a long and in many places coinciding reflection on the need for co-education and the world, even though we are – we have said it very often – of the effective equality between men and women. I agree with you that teachership is the lever shift, that's right, but I also think we should add that we can't go all the way to our schools and institutes. It's to say, if society feels – honestly, everyone – it doesn't really believe the effective equality between men and women, what we do at school stays between, because when it comes out..., it turns out that the stereotypes that we're giving are totally the opposite of what we've been trying to do at school. I will not come to explain a list of numbers, because the numbers are more abhorrent; which I will explain to you are all the performances, because I think you have required us to work for co-education in our educational centers. I know it's hard, because it's going to be long, but I think it's worth seeing everything the education system is carrying out. Co-education is the educational action promoted in the recognition of the potentialities and individualities of children, of boys and girls, which enhances what must be the effective and real equality of opportunities. The co-education to be sought is the elimination of all discrimination by reason of gender or sexual orientation and respect for the diversity of all the students. As you rightly said, education is one of the principles gathered in our Catalonia Education Law. In fact, it is one of the general principles for which our education system is governed. It is already in article 2, in one of the first articles, that says that education and the promotion of real and effective equality between men and women configure a general principle, but then it was concrete, because we are aware that, not to name it, it will come out in our system. It is also one of the computer principles of our system, and it is also one of the criteria guiding the educational organization of the centre. Article 77 also states that co-education, which must promote equality between pupils, is one of those criteria which must be present in the educational organisation of the centre. Therefore, as you said, it is at our base of the Law of Education, and therefore we must work to ensure this promotion for real and effective equality between men and women. We have different ways to work it out. Today you didn't do one, which is the pilot plan, which we obviously did by the consortium, the department and the Barcelona City Council. We just did it to hold, spread and evaluate, too, other practical good, but we have many, practical good. We have tools that work from the system joint, and we have tools that work from the center. At the conjunction of the system, as is well known – the law also establishes – we have to have a gender equality plan of the education system, which, despite the fact that the LEC was approved in 2009, this Pla for gender equality in the education system was not until 2016. And this plan contains an annual action plan, which is set up for each course, where the specific objectives and measures to be contained or to be developed by the general plan are deployed. The Pla per a la egalitat de genere in the education system, which, as I said, approved the 2016 genere, has a dual purpose. For a band, get that the educational activity that is due to end in the educational centers of Catalonia is based on the principle of co-education and equal opportunities, and that involves, as you have also asked, a change of look that allows you to review the focus of the contents and teaching methodologies to advance in the construction of non-sexist identity models. For another band, it is also necessary to incorporate the gender perspective and the effective equality between men and women in educational policies. The transversality of gender is a duty of public authorities recognised in European legislation and also in Catalan legislation. So, according to these purposes, they are the two objectives that work on this plan. First, incorporate the gender perspective and the effective and real equality of men and women in educational policies, and also promote co-education. The actions and measures proposed for this course on the part of the organizational units of the department and represented by a committee that exists, on the part of the department, to follow the plan include, on the one hand, the continuity actions that have taken place, but also the new actions that have emerged precisely from the analysis that has taken place. We continue to work on the basic pillars of inclusive school and the values of co-education that are free of all the regulations that you have also said. And then I'll tell you some of the measurement and evaluation indicators of this plan, and specifically referring to Goal 2, which is coeducation. This apartment has three objectives, which we have marked as specific objectives: to ensure an education without gender stereotypes or discrimination related to gender or affective orientation, as well as a non-sexist academic and professional orientation. To ensure this, a total of two measures are implemented, some of which are described below: including specific training in co-education in training plans for teachers and educational services, including training on non-sexist professional orientation; establishing proposals for specific actions to treat sexist or homophobic conflict situations; including non-sexist professional orientation in professional orientation; including non-sexist non-sexist perspective in the design and itinerary of new professional qualifications; disseminating guidance, resources and good practices on educational actions that promote co-education and also serve education and resources that can co-education, and providing educational materials to achieve a professional orientation free of stereotypes. The second objective is to ensure the prevention and detection of gender-based violence and to collaborate in the intervention of education, in which we are equipped with seven measures: to disseminate the protocol for the prevention and detection and intervention before situations of gender-based or sexual orientation and other discrimination; measures for victims of gender-based violence; to apply the established measures for the transfer of work place to protect women who believe they are victims of gender-based violence; to facilitate the knowledge of the specific tools of which the whole Government – not only the Department of Education – and, in particular, the Catalan Institute of Women have in the field of gender-based protocol, plans and instruments; to provide proposals for abuse and orientations for the promotion of sexual dialogue, etc. And the third and last objective is to promote the inclusion of gender perspective – which you too have not spoken about –, co-education and equal opportunities, in the training activities of the staff of the Department of Education. And here there are three specific measures: the first, integrating into the training of administration staff and serving the principle and co-educational practice, especially for that which makes the collection and support of education and those who develop its activity in educational centres; evaluating training activities with a gender perspective, and collaborating – as we say before, this is not just the teaching department – with universities and with institutes of education sciences to include, as you said, the gender perspective and co-education in the teacher's format plans. Now we've talked about the system as a whole, we've talked about the equality plan, but we can also talk about all the tools that we have at our disposal for the centers to work on just co-education. Didn't he say one, you, that it's the Project of coexistence and educational success, that, as you know, the last few months we've made an important change, and it's that in a maximum of three years all educational centers have to..., not only arrange, but work on this educational project. That was done by resolution of March 17. And here, from the co-existence plan, there are many measures and actions; but, speaking of co-education, they have to be approached from three different levels: values and attitudes, conflict resolution and organizational marches, and also addressed to three areas of action, which are the centre, the classroom and the environment. Some lines of intervention that we propose precisely in the level of values and attitudes are those of co-education, understand this as an education that enhances the real equality of opportunities and the elimination of all forms of discrimination by reason of sex, as well as integration explicitly and in learning contents from the gender perspective. As you well know, there is an application that will use all educational centres to detect each centre's low points, and, from these low points, make a proposal for actions with the right resources. But we also have reference practices. You're playing games in the country, in space, and it's not just in these centers in Barcelona..., it's a lot. If you have the opportunity to visit many of our country's centers, they're just working on the moonlight, because that's where they see that it's where they reproduce the most stereotypes. Only if you visit a lot of centers: you'll see that on the calendar, not the schedule of the center, but the schedule of the pati; every day, what is played, why the different spaces are used, etc. And lastly, the formation of the professionals, which, if it seems to me, I leave for the answer, because I only have twenty seconds. We can talk about the formation of professionals, the different protocols – which we have introduced, precisely, the co-education in all those protocols that we have made – and of different actions, also, to further enhance co-education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.19.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. It has the word Mrs. Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.20.0	Yes, thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. We totally agree; we agree that educational centres cannot act as a newsletter, they alone. There is also a need to work with communication media, families and the social community, among others. We also need to be all responsible, but the school can't stay out of it. And you say, "No, there are many things that are being done. The problem is that they've been going on for 40 years, but they're not enough. I don't think I've been able to explain myself well, because when you say to me, "You asked me what's going on in the matter of coeducation. No, I didn't ask him what's going on in coeducation. What I told him is that I don't think it's enough, what's going on in the matter of coeducation. And we don't say that, say the expert entities, which, moreover, state that cross-cutting is not working. Entities that a few years ago bet on transversality now say that this is a perverse dynamic not to end up settling things or putting them on the line. And besides, he's telling us about the social X-ray. We know that one of the three victims of male violence is less than twenty years old; that teenagers are, after all, more male than their parents, or that one of the younger victims believes that it is normal for the pair to control it. But, besides, what is detected at the educational center is that the boys in general end up taking on the cultural model of hegemonic masculinity, and, moreover, that the girls have so integrated the romantic ideal of love that, despite knowing that they have toxic relationships, they maintain and normalize them. And this is just one of many consequences of patriarchy, but there are many more. How can we understand that today children, who have better academic results, who have lower rates of school failure, who finish middle and higher studies in less time and less abandonment – in the town as a whole the percentage of women with university studies is higher than men's, and therefore, we continue to charge less, we do not occupy places of decision-making or direction, we have to choose between being seas or professional career and we have the most precarious jobs? What, without going any further, in the last Catalan elections, for example, of the seven matches that took place in the electoral debates, there was only one head of the list, which was Inés Arrimadas, before Romeva, Rabell, Iceta, Baths, Albiol and Ramon Espadaler? So, because the system continues to feel profoundly unequal, because they have educated us to give up the first, because there are informal masculine groups that continue to expel us, because the glass floor is a reality, and because capitalism, moreover, has been able to take divine advantage of patriarchy. I mean, we're more than 50 percent and we're still underrepresented in the public sphere, and not just ourselves, but the problems that have historically affected women. And we already know that it's not just with education, it's all right, but it's not one of the mouthpieces. An education that must promote freedom and that must promote that differences between one another do not come marked either by sex or by gender – whether you are a man, a woman or a trans – but that are individual differences. We cannot educate on the basis, as I said, of gender or gender, but on the basis of concerns, tastes, interests, and justice to the paper that have made the women long in history. She will advise, to plan the training offer to apply short-term co-education to all people linked to the educational field, from zero to three years until reaching university. And, besides, this formation has to be face-to-face and not online, as is happening so far. And, besides, I want to guarantee the right to sexual education and information, which is currently not being guaranteed. Now there is no emotional education in schools; what is there is, from time to time, workshops of a few hours of awareness, but this is not education. And, besides, I need a follow-up committee to control, to prove that the measures we approve in this case, therefore, apply; because it happens to us as always: they are approved by the law, but then we do not end up applying the results. And I'll just end up saying that it's a country issue, because patriarchy affects everyone: it's behind feminicides, but it's also social inequality, job insecurity, poor women, lots of maladies... That's to say, it affects health, the economy, education, justice, and that's why it's a country issue and not just on one side of the country. And besides, if education isn't coeducational, it's not education, and if justice isn't gender, it's not justice. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.21.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. It has the word Constellera Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.22.0	Thank you, President. I insist on the fact that I coincide not in all, but in most of the statements and findings that you have made. It's true that we have to work harder, since the education system, I don't say no. For example, the equality plan I explained to him was approved in 2016; therefore, it is a new instrument from which we have endowed the entire education system. I also have to tell you, though, that education centres are probably where they work most, that's what. And you've done a bunch of examples from the public sphere, from the Tertules, from the referents we have...; that's right, all of these are out of school. That is to say, for example, I put it in the field of sport: in the school it is precisely where co-education works the most, for example, it is in the field of sport, and when we go out – just to look at the telenews – it seems that this is just a masculine world. That's why I said... obviously, from education, from within, we have to keep moving forward, we have to keep insisting, and I'm sure there are many more things we can do, because this is a theme... it's not that it's not solved, it's that, besides, it's not solved right now. But it is also true that education, above all, also goes outside the school, in the formal sphere, in the non-formal sphere, and therefore we are all society that we have to demand that, in this matter, we change many of our forms. It's not true that there's no emotional education in school. Yes, there are some little ones: starting to work from very small all those aspects of affective education that we have to work on in our infants. I'll explain everything you do to professional training. We have offered new training – Basic course of co-education, Deepening in co-education, Orientation as a tool for equality – apart from different days. Other novelties that have been introduced, which until now have not been: we have made new titles in higher-level format cycles, precisely to work on co-education in the field of social integration, working on intervention in situations of abusive relations and violence; in the field of socio-cultural and tourist animation, where socio-educational intervention is now working in young people; in the field of child education, where it is working..., you have asked for it, zero-three, so yes, look: in the higher-level format cycles of child education now co-education is working just as a preventive pedagogical tool. Or there is a new format cycle, which is called Promotion of Gender Equality, which is a pioneer throughout the State, there is no format cycle higher than the Spanish State as there is in Catalonia, where specifically the coeducation and prevention of gender violence are working. What have we worked on, too? So in all those different protocols that we had—assessing, cyber-assessing, hate behaviors and discrimination—we have, on the preventive side, added co-education, because it wasn't there, and we think we have to work to try to avoid all these things. But we also did it with the families. They know that we have a work portal with families, and we have worked for educational co-responsibility between school and family, where we are also enhancing all the work in co-education, those orientations and resources to work with children the different attitudes and educational values between which co-education and struggle against gender stereotypes and respect for sexual and gender diversity are also found. And because you see us moving forward... you will surely say: "Listen to me, there is not enough. Sure, until we figure it out, there won't be enough, but let's move on. Miri, another of the topics we have studied – most recently, later – and which concerns us: you know that scientific and technological vocations in the future will have a specific fish in all labors. So, you know what happens to us? Let us go very badly, ladies, in these vocations. The percentage of women who have obtained a university title in STEM vocations – science, technology, engineering and mathematics – is only 33_per_cent, before 66_per_cent of men. And if these are the work of the future, here we have a problem, because here we will have a big gap. But it is even more so, as far as higher degrees of engineering and information technologies are concerned: we only have 15_per_cent– 14,77_per_cent– of women studying these cycles. Therefore... and this we will present briefly, the plan of government of the Stemcat, which we will work as one of the specific objectives for girls..., above all to awaken scientific and technological vocations in girls. Because here too, if we can't, what we're going to create is still a bigger difference in the future. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.23.0	Thank you very much, Counselor Ruiz. [[Asking the Government about the health model]] [[300-00183/11]] The aim of the agenda is to ask the Government about the health model presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mr. Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.24.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor and Councillor Comín, this is, I believe, my last health inquiry that we will have in this legislature; a legislature, therefore, that ends, that runs out, that dies. We know there haven't been any major changes in health care. We know that there have been promises, presentations, excellent powerpoints. There was a lot of diagnostics, there was a diagnostic legislature, with lots of plans, with lots of announcements; well, yesterday you even said it with a lot of hope. Well, as far as parliamentary activity is concerned, therefore, it did not go along with what the Members here have given us. In fact, it was a legislature – which I had told you, and I think that you had understood this – exceptional, exceptional because in the matter of salvation there could be great consensus here, counselor. I think you've lost a lot of opportunities. There was scope for dialogue with these groups. I remember my first question, which I realized explaining the theme of ambulances, the theme we have in Catalonia, so, with ambulances, and we came here to a total agreement, from all over the room. Well, from that point on, there's only been the removal of his head, but the problems we detected at that time are still the same: ambulances continue to ride, they continue to park; there are times when medical services don't have doctors or they don't have nurses. Therefore, nothing has changed: the dissatisfaction of the workers continues, unfortunately, the same. I remember that later I brought to this chamber an inquiry to improve dental coverage of children, pregnancy – with fluoridation plans –; to improve accessibility to odontology for people with social exclusion problems; to improve the detection of oral cancer, which kills Catalans every year. But even today, primary care centres are being opened without the use of odontology. Miri, speaking of current health care, is what I said to him that we were going to do: I spoke to him often, therefore, about this dissatisfaction that is in the health care system; I spoke to him about overload, exhaustion. No one believes the promises anymore, but you, yesterday, said again that we are coming out of the pond. Miri, we come from times of great detail. He heard me say great and unjust details, but you kept them. Do you know that we have workers' hospitals contracted at 60_per_cent, but working a day at 100_per_cent? Do you know that job insecurity is alarming? You denied it, but now it turns out it's the press, which explains it very well. With examples, you could donate a lot. Mammography: the Vilanova Arnau from May can't be programmed mammograms; they're done, there's no more. Sant Llàtzer calls for urgent help: adults and children do not have assigned medication, do not have assigned pediatrics; installations, can renew them. Terrassa's asking for urgent help. The consortium has great problems: report an unsustainable work overload to Terrassa, but it is common in Vall d'Hebron, Bellvitge, the Trueta, etc. « Unsustainable work overload, words of the workers, not of this deputy who talks to you. And all this is given because I believe, as we have sometimes commented – especially to the committees – that we should have had a five- erring legislature: recognition, reality, respect, reform and reversal. The first mistake, of'recognition; recognition, because the health professionals make a big pocket, and we cannot doubt in any of the interventions that it is possible to give thanks to the good work that the professionals are doing. It is a mistake, accompanied by a mistake of rigour, obviously, because we know the health system. We know that understanding the health system is difficult, that it is complex; that we normally have many technical words, that we have circuits to learn. We know that, and we recognize it. Now, you should not listen to the designated politicians, not those who accompany them to the visits, because these people ultimately leave him uninformed and ill-informed. Yesterday, there was a need for the workers who also advise, and very well, Congresswoman Escarp, there was a need for them in this chamber; I think it is not.... MP Escarp, when you say what you say, you say it, as we say to the deputies that we are working on health issues, because we talk to the workers and we inform ourselves of the reality. Mistake of reality. And we add: "Failure to respect, counselor, because we must respect the work they do, and always accompanied with the error of rigour, because infirmary," I said, "is not to blame for the collapses of passers-by. Infirmary is not guilty of collapsing. Because ambulance workers, counselors, are health personnel, and, if you're not sure, the only thing you have to do is push an ambulance at three in the morning, go to an accident and get under the wheels, between the irons, as they do. And when they see what they're doing, when they see what they're doing between the irons to save the lives of the people, they won't doubt again that the ambulance workers are sanitary, and – let's mage it – they're excellent. Proud, too, of these workers. But it follows: the Focap, the professional colleges, the unions, the workers..., are not out of date, counselor. I know it bothers him to publish and tell him things, but they're not out of date. Error of reforms, because of the need for reforms; no error of detail, no error to increase the generality's total assumption of 7_per_cent, but for Salut only 4_per_cent, and especially for the primaryity only 0.7. We are still spending a very low percentage of our GDP on the health system and not on the better part of the health system, and, more importantly... having the pleasure of congratulating the workers. He was wrong about reforms, because he had the option of doing many of them, and, as I say, with a lot of consent in this chamber. You could have done it, but, well, you preferred to make an announcement legislature – by the way, perfectly calendared: every week an announcement. And finally, it was wrong to "revert the clippings, because you know that the waiting list and the precariousness are unbearable. Look, you've forgotten about the workers, the patients... and you accuse them, more and more, when they're angry, they're out of date. But does anyone think there's going to be five thousand contracts? You announced it the other day, five thousand. I could've said, huh? , 6.324, 4.837... ; in number turned, five thousand. You say five thousand because you know perfectly well that the legislature is over and that you will not be the counselor who will have to look at the workers in the next legislature to say: "Well, I said five thousand, but I was wrong. You know that I also brought a young man here to completely reform the primary care, and that certainly coincides with what these workers later did, which they did very well, the workers, in this sense. And I asked and they also asked for a reform to take it, where there is a specific assumption for the primary, where it is necessary to disconnect from the hospital management, where it is necessary to break an absolutely politicized management to stimulate the clinical leaderships – and I know that we agree, counselor–, and we must, obviously – and I will not tire of saying it – to reverse the precariousness. You persist in denying that there are many of these problems: "out of the way, out of the lice, etcetera. I think it's the big mistake, not recognizing, at least, the reality. And, I insist, I understand that the health system is hard to hear in depth. Miri, now we have the rebellion of primary care, which they ask, in fact, what I have explained to you here many times. These people have already managed to get seventy-five centers to join... And, of course, I have the minutes of the meeting that you kept with them, and with the Camfic and with the Focap, at the councillor's office. I won't read it, because it's embarrassing, counselor. At least what they say here about how you treat the workers, I don't like it. This is a public record I haven't written, huh? Counselor, she's here if you'd like to consult her. Well, in the same vein, issue a report, the Focap, a statement that we also need to study and study in depth. And the two pasts..., professional colleges: they serve them in safata proposals for reform at zero cost; many, more..., I had already announced, here, that there were many reforms that, without spending a euro, would help much to improve the health system. But, well, you've done well to accuse them of being out of date. This report, Counselor, is not wasted either. And, finally, the Greuges Syndic opens an office action to investigate the situation of the centers. Counseling, as you see, the actuality differs from what you explain; the workers see it that way. Take advantage of the money left to make changes in the five mistakes to get contexts and to lighten the weight to be borne by the workers and to lighten the list of waits that the Catalans suffer. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.25.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.26.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, you were beginning to say that this is probably the last question you ask me in this legislature. I replied: "Or no – or no. I will be delighted that you are following me by asking questions during the session period that will begin after August, a session period in which you will have the opportunity to follow me by asking. Anyway, you were talking about having a diagnostic legislature. Are you telling me that to fix a patient's problems, you don't have to spend a good time doing a good diagnosis and doing diagnostic tests and analyzing the clinic? Are you one of those doctors who prescribe treatments without knowing who the diagnostic is? Is that what you think a Salut advisor needs to do? Do not make a thorough diagnosis of the health problems of our country with the professionals, who have helped us to develop these diagnoses? Do we have to do with those meths – that there is certainly no one in Catalonia – that apply treatments without having made a diagnosis? I don't know if you're from this school. Or do you have to do a surgical diagnosis? Or should we do an analysis of the problems that our health system has, in detail, which is what we have been doing? And as long as the problem of emergencies needed a deep diagnosis, and as long as the problem of primary care needed a deep diagnosis, and as long as the problem of waiting lists needed a deep diagnosis, and as long as we have dedicated these months to doing this diagnosis, it would just be missing, because we do things with the same rigour as the professionals of our health system. I didn't know you pretended to be acting out of the government without rigor and frivolity. "Rigor means not to say that the health transport is at these times as when we made the change of the director of the SEM, because you know perfectly well– and, if not, you should know, and, if not, study more – that at these times the number of incidents has nothing to see, health region by health region, with the incidents that were there at that time. They're dades, Mr. Soler. Consensus. Consensus, and so on. There have not been many consensuss: the consensus in the Padris, the consensus in the motion relating to primary care... I offered – perhaps you were not there – that the Enapisco now also has a parliamentary armor; I hope that you act with responsibility and are able to be there, in this parliamentary consensus. But what you should hear is that the problems of the health system are so great that they cannot be solved in part. No frivolitzi – no frivolitzi. It's very simple, coming out in this gallery, starting to run... but that doesn't sound like it, it doesn't sound like it's "five mistakes," it doesn't look like it's a nice phrase; it's managed, it's done, it's well done diagnostics, and it's serious reforms that make it possible to fix problems, which are very important. And the reform of primary care that began in '85 lasted for 20 years, Mr Soler; you should know that. And do you expect us to fix the problems of primary care after seven years of crisis in months? Are you saying we're going to fix the problems of primary care in _months? Is that really what you're saying? Because, if you say this – and I say it with all the cordiality that I know I have and all the respect that I know I have – it is irresponsible. If you claim that the problems of our health system are solved in divided_months, it is irresponsible. Retail. I have to give it..., I think it would be good news, but maybe for you it's bad news: the presuppost executed for the year 2017 will be more than 10,000_million euros. It means that we'll be tied, practically, to the assumption of the year 2010, which, as you know, was the greatest executed assumption in the history of the Department of Health. Therefore, the year 2017, the presupposition executed, which is what counts, will exceed 10,000_million euros, which is something that only passed the year 2010 and the year 2009. Therefore, it will be one of the three assumptions executed – which is what counts, and you know it – higher than the story. So, stop talking about retail. Another thing is that a very important part of this growth is going on with the growth of hospital and street pharmacy, because there is a vegetative growth of these costs that does not allow us to get this presuppositionary increase all to better wages, which is what we would like, or to investments. But the premise executed is already the third largest in history, and it's already, no more plotting, no more... smoke curtains. There's no detail, there's no detail. This is what there is at these times in the Department of Salvation, undoing the details; the third highest assumption. Listen, the workers, the precariousness... that's for sure, and that's why we made a plan for job stability. Of course, and that's why we introduced him to all the unions and all the colleges of doctors and all the employers, who were the ones who said they wanted him to be together. I thought I'd introduce him alone, and they said, "No, we want to give our support to this job-creation plan. And they are they, the unions and employers and the colleges, the ones who are responsible for this plan, because they value it positively. He said: "It is that in the press things arise without stopping. Of course, Mr. Soler, and they will be out all their lives, because the health system is a hundred and a thousand professionals, and there will always be a professional who will have some problem, quite rightly. There are sixty hospitals in the public network, and there will always be some hospital in which there will be an incident, only missing. But you cannot cheat: you cannot say, because one day there is news about a professional in a local newspaper or because there is a problem with a hospital in a national newspaper, that the health system is in crisis. That we're talking about sixty hospitals, we're still a little serious. And we're talking about a hundred thousand professionals, we're still a little serious. We don't do parliamentary populism, please. Let us say in favour, that it is much more interesting for everyone, also for you; let us build together. In many moments of the legislature has done so, continue on the right path. We're still with the consensus. We're closing the consensus with regard to the primary, now that we've already introduced the Enapísc. You tell me: "The workers tell us... Listen, I've visited..., out of fifty-five hospitals in the public network, I haven't visited forty. I've been in every one of them for a day, I've been sitting more than an hour with the business committee. I've spoken to forty business committees, and it's them, who, looking at them in the eyes, make them recognizance. But here... I don't have to come here to do the recognitions because it looks good and because they're broadcasting us live. I have to do it behind closed doors, with them, and then escort them. And I assure you that you... or maybe you do, but it seems to me that you must not have met with forty business committees of forty hospitals for more than an hour. Therefore, I assure you that you have been able to convey to me – that my duty is to listen to you – difficulty, precariousness, care pressure, hospital per hospital, and we are working from these conversations. This is the diagnostic that I gave him before we had the obligation to do, carefully, as a good doctor: a good diagnostic, listening to the patient, letting him express himself, letting him get tired of seven years of crisis. And we're working with them. The five mistakes... it's very good faith. I don't doubt his good faith, but with that we don't fix anything. When you find a more or less happy expression and talk about the five mistakes... that doesn't fix the problems. The problems are peremptory and we need to be able to fix them, and the way to fix them is to work with consensus in Parliament. You say: "You make reforms; then, when we make plans, they tell me that I present mass plans. Listen, the reforms are planned. It's just that the reforms have to be planned, they can't be done to the babble. And, if you have noticed, the minutes of the meeting to which you refer, specifically the Focap published it – its version of the meeting, a detailed chronicle. Read it, read it, what the Focap says in this chronicle. The Focap will be part of the advisor council that will deploy the Enapisc. The College of Metges, in the document on the primary, begins by congratulating the Enapist, and the only one that asks is the same one that I ask of myself, which is that now we begin the implementation of this plan. Because then, when he makes a proposal for measures, 95_per_cent... – I have not made a precise calculation –, 95_per_cent of the measures proposed by the Metges College are already in the Enapist. That's why I said it was a very valuable document, which I liked very much, because it's a way to give support to the national primary care strategy, because they offer fifty things, and out of fifty, forty-four are in the Enapisco. That's why I said it was coming... in this sense, it would have been more logical if it had been done before, because it's a document that I know has been developed over the months, if it's come out before I catch it. One time after the Enapisco, I have to say that everything that the college asks is already predicting and that I am glad that the college proposes exactly what we intend to do, which is what you said: everything you have proposed, is all in the Enapisco. And the will is to start immediately – and I explained to you yesterday in two replies to two questions from the control session – to initiate those measures that do not depend on the assumption; those measures, for example, relating to the democratic ratification of the directors of the primary care teams. This is what we start doing in the second semester. And even some measure that has a presuppositional impact we'll start to deploy during the second semester of the 17th, like, for example, the call for the sabbatical years. The call of the Sabatic Years – I said yesterday and I repeat again – will already start this call, during the late. Mr. Soler, what have we done to this legislature? I say, take the bull for the banyas. What? All of it. We did not avoid: in emergencies, grab the bull for the banyas; in primary, grab the bull for the banyas; in waiting lists, grab the bull for the banyas; in job insecurity, grab the bull for the banyas. And in each and every one of the themes we're coming from the hands of the industry and the professionals, and that's what gives us credibility. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.27.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Comín. There's the word Mr. Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.28.0	Thank you; thank you, President. Counselor, well, the doctors... I think I already knew, the doctors at the consultation, obviously, we're diagnostics, we're differential diagnostics; we're not studying a career. I understand that you need a legislature to study it with summaries and points that you need to facilitate to fix the health system. Because, in any case, all this, in short, for which the professionals who are passing through the health care system are speaking, is a question of credibility, such as, for example, what happened with the waiting lists. You say you're doing a lot. Well, I do know that we here presented a bill of law, and the first one they did was stay-there's a goal to the totality, so no... with this consensus that you say you want to... well, so much so that when we present a law and we want to reform, so you make a goal to the totality and delay the debate as much as you can to finish it. So much so that I can have more health inquiries in this legislature. He knows I have a lot of things to say and do, but, well, the time left in the legislature doesn't seem to allow it. Well, from the waiting list... He knows it's a topic that Ciutadans hasn't spoken to much – I personally with you – and I'd like to ask him a question today. Miri, I did it on November 9, 2016. That day, as is stated in this paper, I recorded a question asking him: "Counselor, what is the waiting list for the pain clinics in Catalonia? How many days will it take the people who suffer in Catalonia to visit them in Vall d'Hebron, why visit them in the Trueta, why visit them in the Arnau de Vilanova? And so on and on and on and on and on and on That's what I did on November 9, 2016. The weeks passed, the weeks passed, the weeks passed... and Nadal arrived, we came back... and the weeks went on and you didn't answer, and I made sure everything was well recorded. And, therefore, to the committee, when you appeared, I said to him, "Counselor, I have this question. Now that you're here, could you answer me? Who's the waiting list to access Catalonia's pain clinics? And you know what he answered me that day? Remember? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The usual one: "Rigor, I don't know what..., "Mr Soler, you, such..., but he didn't answer me – he didn't answer me. [[Greetings.]] And since he didn't answer me... I'm a patient person, and patiently, so, I waited, and, look, you did answer: June 6, 2017, here I have the answer. You send this answer seven_months after my question. Well, the Catalans, after set_months, may know their answer in this topic. Now, that you triage seven months to answer to the Catalans who are waiting list can answer to two circumstances: the first is that their information system, therefore, is not what I think Catalonia needs; the second is that you already had these data long before, obviously, to answer, and, for what it is, it took seven months for you to answer to the Parliament seven months, it took seven months of waiting list to answer which is the waiting list of the people who are in pain in Catalonia. For the first premise, well, if you don't have a good information system that allows you, when a deputy says to him: "Look, what's the waiting list for a patient in Vall d'Hebron, at the pain clinic? ...If it's a very simple question, it's that it should be in a computer system and, in twenty-four hours, to be generous, it should answer; but you needed, I insist, huh? , set_months. Therefore, Ciutadans wants to build, wants to present proposals. We will not be here criticizing a counselor who does not want to answer the Catalans; therefore, I do not forget, about this subject. Citizens, what are you going to do? He will present a motion, articulated in various things: the first – the first – we want an external audit of the situation of the waiting list in Catalonia. We want to know the actual data. Catalans need to know what happens to the waiting list: how many patients are visited at each place, how many patients are coming to the private, how many patients are coming in and out of waiting lists. And, therefore, we want to audit all of this, to audit it externally and, obviously, professionally. And, obviously, there would be transparency measures to prevent Catalans, to know that, from having a deputy here waiting seven months for you to be able to answer. Now, well, if you might have had a little bit of time before the data, well, the time you spent presenting them, so... maybe the Catalans wouldn't have to know one of the motius. Explain it. Maybe it's because Lleida has 117 days to be visited on a first visit – that's what you say, huh? , no matter what you ask, you say it, I only read your document –, four_months; Tortosa, seven_months; you tell me that Maresme and the Jungle, six_months; Vic, 231 days; Valls, 330 days– eleven_months– ; Terrassa, 270 days– 9_months– ; Vall d'Hebron, 185... Well, and so – and so. It's clear that people are painting pain out there, that we don't have a transparent and credible information system. We will audit and make proposals because the waiting list in Catalonia is on and Catalans can know what's going on with their taxes. And we're going to try to get this all done again with the five mistakes: they recognize the professionals, with the reality of giving these real and reliable data, respecting the workers and the citizens, they are valiant in making these reforms that we have asked for and reverting to these reforms that you say are already reverting. Counselor, the health system needs compromises. Help me get this all over again. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.29.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. Counselor Comín responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.30.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, always cordially, I assure you, eh? But you go here to act; then you are so, say I don't know why your companions applaud him. [[remorse of the voice]] But I... do you know what's going on? I can't, I can't, I can't, I come here to work. So, if you want to come here and act [[remorse of the voice]] But the records will then be very difficult, because I can't afford it, because I have to come here to work. Look, if all you have to criticise the Health Counselor is that one of the question drawings that all opposition groups do to us every week – question drawings every week of each opposition group, means hundreds of questions, thousands of questions at the length of the legislature – that one of these questions we've asked seven months to answer, I appreciate it a lot, because I mean you're asking me a very good note, right? Because the other day around here they were writing notes. If all you have to criticize the Councillor of Salvation is that, frankly, Mr. Soler... Or so, now the big problem of the legislature is that a question to you we've been trying to answer for seven months - here. No, I assure you that, unfortunately, the health system has more important problems, but thanks, thanks for its benevolence; indeed, I appreciate it very much. Listen, why don't you give me some data that I gave to you? Can you explain to me why you read me some data that you know why I explained it to you in a letter that I sign? It just seems like a lot of weird to me. You went and read me a letter that I sent to you; but if I already know them, these data. And that's why there's a list of waiting lists, realistically, so as not to raise false expectations. We don't promise what we can't do, we just promise what we can do. But if you present me with a legislative proposal that does not relate to this issue and that is not a good proposal, then we do not have to approve it. Don't take that as a lack of willingness to consent. A willingness to consent, all of it, but when we come up with proposals with some added value to respect what we are already doing. Because if what you're telling me is a stuffed version of what we're doing in the department, it wouldn't really feel like we're getting this young man. Listen, Mr. Soler, I think in some of your fears you should study more, because, honestly... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, because you say transparency. Listen, did you not know that this government has decided that from now on, from the waiting lists, there will be a permanent online publication to keep the data updated monthly, that it is the waiting lists that issue the centers with the new template of the waiting lists that has marked the Cat salut to prevent the centers from explaining the lists with different methodologies? You don't know that from now on we won't be doing the semi-annual press wheel, that it's a 20th-century thing, and that from then on it's going to be possible to follow the evolution of wait lists for service, hospital for hospital? You don't...? Maybe he didn't feel it. So, you're telling me, what are we going to do with the biggest transparency step that's been done on waiting lists, which is more transparent? But, listen, if we're the ones doing the most transparency on the lists. More transparent, impossible; more transparent, impossible. So, listen, before you ask any questions, I think you should prepare a little more questions. I, in fact, invite you, in those projects that I know we agree with, like the reform of the primary, to build them together. Just as we have in the Advisory Council of the National Primary Care Strategy the participation of the col·legis, which must be a critical participation – only lack it – of the Focap, the unions, the scientific societies... It is one of the great reforms. You, in this sense..., I recognize that you were a pioneer: you brought an inquiry – if I don't recall it badly –, a motion on this subject, and it was agreed, and I think we voted for it unanimously. Now it's time to take a step forward, in the matter of primary care. We didn't say five thousand to say it, we said five thousand because we have some quality goals. And the quality goals are: less than forty-four hours, the scheduled visit, and a half a minute per visit– half a minute per visit. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Make the calculation and see that it gives this xifra: five thousand meters. And when do we have to put them? When there's the resources to put them there. And, therefore, I will not promise calendars that I have no guarantee that they will be able to complete. Are we working together to make this great spring? The sector has listened to the Enapisc and is looking at it with hope, and with the reason that it is not able to last long – normally, I too have the tender –; but the model, the sector has recognized it as what it is, because they have thought it. Shall we deploy it together? Are we ready, back on holiday, to make a joint resolution of all the parliamentary groups with the contents of the Enapisc and to shield this great reform of our health system parliamentaryly? I'm convinced it is. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. Thank you, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.31.0	Thank you, Counsellor Comín. [[Asking the Government about public workers]] [[300-00184/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on public workers presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.32.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counselor, the first thing I wanted to comment on is what happened yesterday in the control session when Inés Arrimadas asked the President of the Generalitat if he knew what day the remaining pay was going to be returned to the officials for recovery from 2012. Scandalously, the president had no idea; he looked at you, he didn't know. And I say it is scandalous because in the budgets of this year 2017, recently approved in the Congress of Deputies, it is established that the administrations have to return the last part of the extra pay of the year 2012 in the financial year 2017. And if this is to be in the 2017 financial year, obviously there are a few months to go. And it is not the same thing to return a pay in December, that the families of the officials can invest in many things that, moreover, revert to the economy..., 125_million_euros that directly revert to the economy, that are atomized and distributed– in the food shops, gifts, everywhere–..., in the economy of proximity those 125_millions have important economic consequences and are distributed among the people, who, in turn, distribute it among society. What you have not even valued, despite what the budgets say, if you are going to be returned this year, as is foreseen in the general budgets of the State, the payment to the officials seems scandalous to us – it seems scandalous to us. And it seems to us a lack of respect for people, who are public employees, who have been working for all of us in times of cuts, serving the citizen despite cuts in their wages and rights. And surely it is this same abandonment of their functions and this lack of respect for these groups that leads them, in their separatist project, to unprotect the officials, and I would say more than to unprotect them, to use them as human shields. I have seen that Mr Lluís Llach left the Chamber when I started this inquiry, surely not to hear how he threatened the officials, Mr Lluís Llach; how Mr Vidal, of Republican Left, Senator of Republican Left, acknowledged that lists of judges were being made. You, in your delirium, make lists of like and contrary to the cause. And this, in addition to Judge Vidal saying it, and in addition to explaining what with his threats Mr Llach, came to light when not long ago the draft of the law of break-up that you call "transitionality, in which you were already doing cabals on whether some officials would continue in your jobs or not, whether they would join the new administration of the state. It was clear that you could not all choose, because the new state that you foresee would not accommodate all the officials, not all those who chose could be chosen by you, because perhaps you did not have enough ideological purity, as Mr Vidal explained when you made your lists of like judges. But I would also like to say something to you today which has worried us very much, Madam Councillor, about these lists. You put a poker face, as you say: "This can't be proved. Well, I think you're already beginning to be able to prove it – I think you're beginning to be able to prove it. On May 23, 2017, there is a government agreement that contains a third final provision in which, within the framework of a restructuring decree of your department, you are empowered to create lists, registers of local government officials with national clearance. That is, the secretaries, the treasurers and the interveners, who are state bodies that provide their services to the local administration..., you, at a meeting of your executive council, decide that you will make a record of these officials. Three lines, in that third final provision. Please explain to us today, Madam Councillor, why they are doing that register of State officials who provide their services to local administrations. Why does the Generalitat of Catalonia need to have State officials checked and registered? Do you want to do something in the city halls for what speakers, secretaries and treasurers need to have some kind of contest and you want to have them located and listed? What competition do you have? For what purpose will you take your data? Explain to us, because it does not explain this decree, this provision that you agreed to, why you want to make these lists of state officials. Look, tomorrow you have called the most representative unions to talk about two issues: one, about the public offer of employment, and the other, about the recovery of rights lost with cuts. We have already met with the most representative unions, and you know what? That they want to talk about the protection they're going to have in case you carry out what you say you want to do, which is that non referendum you want to do on October 1, which you're already telling them can't be done, but that you still say yes and that you will. So, they, logically, then, want to know how they're going to be protected, how they're going to be safeguarded from this. But you, when you call them tomorrow, are not going to talk about this. That's what you talked about with a union that doesn't represent anyone, that's an independent union that wants you to do what you say you want to do, but at the same time, like everyone – because that's what all unions agree on, think what they think – you believe that officials can be in a brete and that you're doing nothing to protect them. And you, when you call the officials, do not put on the agenda what is the news of the week and what is causing a flood of news and statements, which is the unprotectiveness of the officials in the face of this claim to make a non-referendum on October 1st. And, look, do you know what officials are worried about? They are concerned because they, as people who access their posts by opposition, have a certain knowledge of the legal system, and know that there is a constitution and a statute of autonomy and that this has to be fulfilled. And then they are surprised that you say that you have a powerful piece of paper locked in a drawer; that, when you take it out and bring it here in a single reading, that piece of paper will work the virtuality of repealing our legal order and erecting itself in the new rule to be followed. And this surprises them, and I'm not surprised, that it surprises them, because I'm surprised too, Madam Counselor, I confess it to them. And besides, what the officials say is that, listen... verbal or written orders? No, no, it's not that they want them in writing or verbals, it's that they want to have the guarantee that they're not going to have illegal orders, that they're not going to see themselves in the texture that some people tell them one thing and others tell them the other. They want to have these guarantees. And that's normal, but that's what all the officials think, I repeat, also those officials who can agree on some independenceist postulates, but who know that they can't move forward without the officials' competition. Because you, Madam Counselor, do not infuse the officials in peace. Because that's why they're taking out protocols; they're taking out protocols to protect themselves from their governació advisor. That's what officials are doing now. Officials want to protect themselves not only from being hypothetically punished for failing to comply with their orders; they want to protect themselves from being pointed out, from saying: "This one collaborated or" This one did not cooperate; they want to protect themselves from becoming people who do not like their bosses in the administration and who, for example, have vetoed promotions. Look, this is about the fears or expectations that exist among officials of what the Administration will do and, of course, of what we all democrats will do to protect them from the problems that arise from trying to do something illegal. In the second part of my speech I will explain to you, regarding the news, the lie of the week, that we have it now recently, that there will be electoral agents and volunteers who will replace the officials..., about that lie of the week and their inability to carry it out I will speak to you in the second part of my speech. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.33.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.34.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. MP, ladies and gentlemen, today they ask me again – again – to talk about public workers. And the truth is, I'd like to think that when you do, it's because of the concern of public workers, their rights, their professional careers, their training, their consolidation in their places, but not far from that, in this intervention. I don't want to think – of course not – that you may also be interested in this area, right? , in which it is, therefore, his professional career, which is his job, which is his place, which is his socio-occupational conditions, but you basically ask me about the democratic process that this country has embarked on. And in this sense you want to use it as a tool, as elements in this game that you do, the public workers, and this I think we won't allow. We will not allow you to play with public workers as if we were playing as guarantors of something you were. You're the only one they do is sow por; you're the only one they do is say falsehoods, and therefore this is an issue we can't accept. We are ahead of a political process – we all know that – and we have said since the first moment and we will say that the responsibility for the process is assumed by the policies. And I think the best example is what is going on, that, as you know, there has been a 9-N, we are in this process of being able to materialize the reference– that we insist on, we want to agree–, and that, at the time of truth, therefore, those who are in situations of accusations, quarrels or who have been condemned, have been the politicians, only the politicians, and this is a reality that you cannot deny me. This is a reality that you cannot deny because things are as they are, and therefore this process is carried forward by the strength of the people, by the power of the citizenry. And, I insist, before you want to pass on to the public workers, there is nothing but protection on the part of this government to these public workers. Because, listen, there are four convictions about four policies: President Mas, Councillor Rigau, Councillor Quico Homs and Councillor Joana Ortega, and in no case about any public worker. I also have to tell you..., if we speak for what I am concerned, you know that at these times they say – because I have not rejected it – that there is a complaint that the prosecution has demanded that now, as an aggravation, they want to put the fact that I have been, therefore, in a demonstration or in a concentration organized by Ómnium Cultural, for the Association of Municipis for Independence, for the Catalan National Assembly, and I think more about those times when I was little and at my home I said that you did not explain that my father had gone to some meetings that night before. This is what I'm reminded of, these intentions: that to go to a concentration results that we have to suffer just like when my father went to meetings. [[Greetings.]] So, listen... And this request is produced by the prosecution on the day that the European Union has – by chance – decided that it was totally incorrect, the verdict that was given to Juan María Atutxa, Gorka Knörr and Conchi Bilbao. Oh, what a coincidence! When there is an absolute setback to Spain's justice, when it is demonstrated once more that this justice is not independent and that it is not acting correctly, and when it is shown once more that this justice of the Spanish State, so... As these show that citizenship says that they are not acting independently; indeed, this is what the European Union predicts, this is how it establishes it. So, listen, it's hard enough for some people to say that putting the ballot boxes is a bit of a summer, it's hard enough for them to threaten us continuously and it's hard enough for you to threaten the public worker continuously. [[Some applause.]] Because here the only threat the public worker has is the one that you have in the end – it's the one that you have in the end. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, listen, that's enough. There is no way to threaten or say that he certainly made statements that they are not, Mr Lluís Llach. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Lluís Llach the only one who said... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Listen, if you want to turn this into a festival, you do what you think, but the only one that Mr Lluís Llach said is that the laws of this Parliament were to be completed. Is that what you don't agree with? Or is it that you don't agree that Parliament's laws have to last long? So, it's clear that the laws of Parliament are going to be tough in the long run. And, therefore, here they will find us. But, listen to me, you were asking me about concrete issues, right? And like they see fantasies all over the place, so I'll lighten things up for them. Because, of course, at the time of truth, some of the things that happen to you happen to you because, from the start, they don't run at all together, they don't have a mayor at all together, and they don't know that one of the hard problems there is in this country. [[Funnel veils]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.35.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.36.0	... one of the hard problems in this country is that we don't have enough speakers, too many secretaries and too many people who can do their work at the local level, and that is why we are doing things precisely to be able to feed the speakers and the secretaries together in this country. And it turns out that you see fantasies here and you see things that aren't. Therefore, I am speaking to the mayors, who are not in this chamber, and they will be able to tell him how difficult it is for them to master these places of intervention and of secretaries, that this is a constant struggle: that the assemblies may have, therefore, these two key figures in order to be able to endure their functions. And, therefore, in front of the vacant seats in the local world, what it is to have transparency about which seats we have occupied, all and each of the seats we have occupied, and which seats are vacant. I know – I don't know if you know, but I already inform you – that the function of the secretary and the intervention, moreover, is cumulative, and that, therefore, we can know whether in this sense there are intervenors who have cumulative places or not, and, therefore, if any of these intervenors or secretaries could do this accumulated work in some of the joints that have vacant places. Therefore, listen to me, believe me, do not see fantasies, but rather a willingness to act positively to give solutions to assemblies that have difficulties. Therefore, in this sense, I insist, register, transparency. I shouldn't have made them clear to you. Why do they see fantasies about transparency in the fact that there is a register so that we know which public workers are made up of secretaries and interveners, which places, therefore, are empty, and therefore what actions should be taken in the long run to ensure that there are all of them? But, listen to me, I let you come back... you were talking to me about public workers, why you have them and everything you say. I think the best way to talk about public workers – you say you're talking about it, too; I don't doubt you're talking about it, but I'm talking about it –... that's what they say publicly, isn't it? And so, look, let's go to what's said, and I've been transcribed of what's said to Catalonia Radio or what's said to 8TV. Catalunya Radio, right? "We want information, and I think they have all the right to demand information. But they also say, and therefore, in this sense I also want to read them - there... they say: "I am sure that the government will not put public servants in danger, and that if the process moves forward, it will not involve you. Therefore, listen'm, these are the words of the representatives of the Workers' Commissions and the UGT on 8tv and in Catalonia Radio. So, obviously, they want information, which... we're in permanent dialogue with them; they'll keep it, they'll keep it, and so they'll be informed. And they also manifest, for the right and the reverse – and reconnect their statements –: "I am sure that the government will not put public servants in danger, and that if the process moves forward, it will not involve you. They would say – if you could read the literality – that this is a political process; that they are the politicians, the ones who have to be responsible for this situation, so that we can look for a political solution. We're talking about what they're saying: this is a political process, so we're looking for a political solution, and here we are. I could also read them the points that I myself took in the National Referendum Pact, where the three unions that were represented there in a very clear way expressed, therefore, that this was a political process; that they obviously did not give it the skeleton, but the opposite, and that they would be at the expense of a process in which the people were asked to vote. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.37.0	Thank you, Counselor Borrás. You have the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.38.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, yesterday the President was upset about the question of whether he had scheduled the 2012 and 2013 and 14 pay, and today you are upset about asking him for the protection of officials. I know, this is the work of the democratic opposition that must be done in a parliament. Get used to it. And don't talk so much about yourself and what happened to your father and his memories, because maybe some other members' parents, maybe their own group, were on the other side, you know? [[Greetings.]] So, you don't have the heritage of repression; many people and many parents of many of us here were repressed during the dictatorship. And to Mr Llach, whom you applauded, as to whether or not he threatened officials..., listen, in the programme of Catalunya Radio de Mònica Terribas the other day they put the literal recordings, and they themselves said: "And this does not seem to you to be a threat? Look, I'm telling you what Mr Llach said: "When we have the law of legal transition, it will force all the officials who work and live in Catalonia. Anyone who fails to do so will be punished. You'll have to think about it very carefully. I'm not saying it's easy; on the contrary, many of them will suffer – the famous« will kick. [[Greetings.]] As for the organization of..., you, as head of the Electoral Process and Popular Consultations Area, look, the logistics of electoral processes is attributed to public administrations, not to private companies, not to concessions. Why? Because elections are very important and have to be monitored, and they have to be done democratically, within the framework of a rule of law. Any replacement of the Electoral Administration is a first-class democratic fraud, Mrs Borràs. Look, it is not only not possible to replace those who take part in the preparation of elections by electoral agents or by 78,000 – almost eighty_ thousand – people who have to occupy the polling stations. It is not only those, who carry out elections on that day; it is that there is a huge preparation behind, of censuses, of distribution of electoral schools, of directors who have to give the keys to those schools where the elections are to be held. There's a lot of preparation behind, not just that day. And then, another thing, you can't give a census..., first you can't use a census done in any way and you don't know how, but then you can't give people's data to volunteers that you have put in the ANC and Cultural Ómnium and that it's them who do everything and do the counting and, that, suppose they have guarantees. Look, Mrs. Borràs, I'm going to ask you some very simple questions, see if you can answer them. Do we or do we not agree that legal certainty should be respected? In that essential, do we agree? You don't point out..., you don't say yes or no with your head; I hope you'll answer it later here. Look, you're a pharmacist, but do you understand that the current law is the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy? You understand that, don't you? Do you agree? You have a rule that is apparently going to be very powerful, and when you take it out of the drawer and take it here and then in one reading you approve it, for just under half of the parliamentarians who are here, it is assumed that with that rule you, repealing the Constitution and the Statute, can hold in legal form, in quotes, that non-referendum. I ask you: if the Constitutional Court annuls this powerful rule that you adopt here, this legal magic that Mr Carles Viver i Pi-Sunyer has outlined to you..., if the Constitutional Court annuls it, will you and your senior officials give the order to go ahead with the officials who must organize the non-referendum? Will you give these orders? Yes or no, Counselor? Have the courage to answer these questions. If you intend to build a republic under the premise of illegality and coercion and shielding yourself from public workers to achieve it, Citizens, democratically, will prevent it. We will prepare a motion to protect public workers, because in the event of elections, protecting public workers is also protecting democracy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.39.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. There's the word Constellera Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.40.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had a hard time commenting on it or answering one of the things you asked me about, which was the subject of extraordinary pay. In the extraordinary pay, the fact that she is able to pay all, the one of 2012, this 2017. You know that there is a payment agreement per negotiating table, that it also partially assumed this agreement here in Parliament, that it led us to a negotiation at the negotiating table and that it is granted to the 2012 calendar, and that, therefore, the return of the 2012 payment is guaranteed. And, therefore, in this sense, beyond what the state regulations say, that there is no contradiction, we, therefore, comply with the requirements. Look, the truth is, you're following the por theory, and you're still trying to put the accent here, put it, I insist, the por on public workers, which you don't. But you have made a change in your speech, important, that I thank you – I thank you – despite everything. I thank him for the fact that you already give by the fact that this is all going to take us long. [[Some applause.]] I therefore thank you that at these times you no longer say: "This is impossible, "You are deceiving the people, etc., "The only ballots are those of the elections, but at these moments you accept that there is a firm compromise here for a long time, so what we have committed ourselves to at the electoral level and at what we have committed ourselves to in the chamber. And, therefore, I welcome the fact that I have made this change, this real change, and therefore the fact that I accept that there is a city movement here, a movement that I do not want to call political because, I insist, I think it is more citizen than nothing else, that this country believes that the best way to resolve the situation is by voting. And you've been asking me a whole series of questions, haven't you? I've been asking myself a whole series of questions that I think are answered for themselves. Listen to me, do you agree or not that when there is a political conflict, when there is a situation that needs to be resolved, the way to resolve it is politics? Or do you think the way to solve it, in change, is it the courts? Or is it the threat to public workers, as you do? Do you agree or not that there is today, so the right to the free gathering and the free demonstration, and that, therefore, in this sense it would have been well that you could have expressed that it is not correct, that the prosecution poses as an element aggravating the fact that a person goes to a demonstration? Because that's an area of democracy where we'd all have to find each other. And, therefore, to me..., more than you like or dislike the policy that we have decided to make from this government, from the compromise that this government has with reference and from the fact that for this reason this government has formed, it would be good for you to accept that democracy is to be able to manifest, democracy is to be able to express, democracy is to be the free assembly. And while you're not able to say this, you're running away from democracy and doing us all a little favor, because that least denominator you should share. And you should share, because it is a reality, that this government has protected and will continue to protect public workers, because, if not, you set an example of the contrary. You wanted to ridicule, for example, the constitution of the contract table that we needed to finish in the department for which it was the approval of the companies respect the ballot box. And it turns out that an element that we did over-protect, if you want, about public workers, because it is obvious that approving businesses for the issue of ballot boxes is not illegal – we remember that Andalusia has ballot boxes –... so, in this, that it is a matter of absolute normality, we thought it was opportune, fruit..., as the prosecution does, to put the secretaries of the department here. Why? So, because it's obvious that we don't want to put public workers at risk, and before what is for us the illogical action of the prosecution, we'll act, we've acted and we'll continue to act in this way, protecting the public worker. While you're the only one who's generating by and saying falsehoods... we'd like to, at least in this tiny denominator of democracy, to have you too. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.41.0	Thank you, Counselor Borrás. [[Universalization of Health Care Law Project, with public funding, through the Catalan Health Service]] [[200-00018/11]] The next item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Health Commission on the Universalization of Health Care Law Project, with public funding, through the Catalan Health Service. In accordance with Rule 122 of the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the Government's request, we shall begin the debate with the intervention of Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.42.0	Thank you, Madam President. [[Widow's remorse.]] Actually, the government..., I myself wanted to use the power to hold us back from the Rules...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.43.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.44.0	...to intervene in the final approval process of the laws, because this law is not any law. I wouldn't want to be more solemn about the account, but now I may contradict myself, and I want to tell them that today is a historic day for me. I think it's a historic day for all of us, and I think it's a historic day for every citizen of Catalonia, because today what we're doing is explaining what kind of country we want to be. What we're doing is a step in the dignity of Catalan society. It's a very transcendental law, not just because of its concrete and practical effects – now I'll list them – but because of their symbolic value, for which it represents, for which it tells us as a society, what kind of society we want to be. And we want to be a kind of society that fully guarantees social rights to all people living in Catalonia. This is the ultimate goal of everything that is going on in this country: the guarantee of the fundamental rights and social rights, especially for everyone. Universality is a part of rights, and of social rights in particular. It is inherent in the fundamental rights, its universality. The fundamental rights are fundamental, and therefore they are for everyone, for all people. The fundamental rights are universal. The first statement of human rights is the Declaration of the Rights of the City. The United Nations Declaration says that citizenship is universal, it is the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We have to understand that universality is what allows the rights to be such rights, and, therefore, it is very important that we do today. In fact, WHO considers universal health care to be the object of any public health system. We have had conversations with WHO officials in Europe, and they say to us: « Catalonia is exemplary, in this sense, thanks to this law that you are about to approve, guaranteeing universality and guaranteeing it with quality. But, besides, universality has always been – I'm going to make a brief intervention, huh? – one of the principles of our health model, is in the State – now comes the time, not pateixin, will not extend me very much –; universality as at the beginning of our health system is in the State. But even more so, it's in the culture of our country, it's in the social consensus, it's in the political consensus, it's in the professional consensus. Catalonia..., its citizens fly, we want – and citizens – a public and universal system. I, thanks to this law, our health system today will be fully universal. And, therefore, what we are doing today is to challenge what the PP government did in 2012 with that royal decree and what it would never have done, which is to leave a part of the citizens out of healthcare coverage, which is also to destroy the Catalan health system – that, in fact, is to destroy the Catalan health system, to leave a part of the citizens who live in Catalonia out of healthcare coverage – and, therefore, to regain universality, which has always been in the DNA of our health system; to restore the lost universality, which has always been there for a few years and which we have had to guarantee for the door to go back. Now it will no longer be necessary to guarantee it through the back door, and we will guarantee it, this universality, with all the law. This expression has more meaning than ever before: "with all the law. We guarantee universality with all the law. What's the law? The law we're about to approve today. I would like to thank the parliamentary groups for the good work they have done, the good welcome with which they have rejected this preliminary draft of the law. We've incorporated most of the contributions they've made. They've shown a sense of responsibility and a sense of country very big, and we didn't expect less, let's just say, and so I want to thank you very much. And also the entities, which have been following, which have made allegations, which have made statements in this bill, which, therefore, is everyone's. And let me hide, for me a law like this is a law by definition. When we make a law that shields a fundamental right like this, we're making, by definition, whatever the political moment is, a law is, because that's the basis from which we build our welfare state model, our country model. The law, you know, brings four major novelties. First, the armouring for the law – therefore, for the rule of the highest possible rank – of public health assistance to all resident persons. The other novelty of the law is that, to believe the residence, we serve as an entrance, because it is the safest and fastest and most practical way to do it, the padro, but not only... ; because it is true, we are aware that there are residents in Catalonia who have difficulties to register, and therefore it was important that the law provided for other mechanisms to credit the residence, other formulas of the relationship, that, moreover, we wanted it to be vagina unfolding regularly just to be flexible in adapting to the mechanisms of the relationship that can be produced. And you know there's a compromise to make, first, the regulation, in three months, huh? The regulation will have to be done at an express time, which is one of the commitments on the basis of which we have built this parliamentary consensus. We've eliminated the three _months of grace. And another thing we've done is to guarantee public coverage to Catalans living abroad when they viscose here, when they come back here, when they spend some time here. There are other novelties, but, not to expand, I don't expose them. As far as I was concerned, in the deployment..., commitments. First compromise – ho deia –: regulation, in record time. The regulation has to explain the other forms of arrangement – in three_months. A rule made in dialogue with entities that have been following this issue for many years, who are experts and who know the issue well and have a lot to say. Therefore, they are basic interlocutors in the drafting of this rule. Three: strengthen surveillance systems to detect lawbreak situations – very well – and proactivity; proactivity of the Catalan Health Service in spreading the contents of this law and proactivity in forming the city's health care services so that they act in accordance with the law. Because what we have to do is not only that the law is passed, but that we all compliment it scrupulously. And, for that matter, we'll be training. The citizenry has to know it, which is also a way to guarantee the compliment of the law, that the citizenry knows the law and demands it, when people go to the health system, and say, "Look, no, it's..., you know what's going on? Tell her that. But we, for the administration's song, have an obligation to ensure that public workers know and respect this law, that it is not given cases like those that occurred a few days ago in some public health centre in the city, where the city's care service did not follow the instructions that were in force until now. And I, therefore... nothing more to say. So, yeah, when we do things we can be proud of, we have a right to say it. We're proud of this law. I am not talking about my particular pride; I try, with this expression, to represent the pride shared with the other parliamentary groups that have been working there, with civil society, with the citizens in general. And, indeed, if at some point in this legislature we have a right and you have heard that we are ahead of a historic moment, it is today, indeed. Ladies and gentlemen, we are ahead of a historic moment. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.45.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Comín. Next, there is the words of Ms. Montserrat Candini, who in a nutshell named the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.46.0	Well, good morning, counselor. MPs, MPs, first place, certainly today is an important day. To thank, as I followed the rapporteur, the professional and strict task of the late Mrs Anna Casas, and also the parliamentary manager, the Eva Vendrell, very strict, with a lot of work, with a lot of rigour and a lot of professional, and also, logically, to give thanks to all the members of the ponència de salut. And, in a very special way, therefore, to give thanks to those people, to those Members who have worked very, very, very, very hard, in a very good building, with many gains to pull things forward, with this positivism and these gains of creativity, and who are the Angels Martínez, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, the Assumpta Escarp, of the Socialist Party, and the Eulàlia Regunant, of the CUP; to all of them, many thanks, and, above all, because I have also after many of you three. I believe that there has been a lot of detail on the part of the question, with this construction that I was commenting on to you, but above all with something that I have also known from the zero minute, that it is this soul of being aware..., even though this law, as the counselor says, is an absolutely important law, and that it is true, from the point of view of this will, let us say it, pre-constitute, to lay the foundations in a clear way in something in which we should never, let us say it, have a sense of doubt, and that logically, as the counselor knows, but he has said it, so..., beyond our own history, without having the full sense of the rule of law, that it is clear that we have, in fact, that we have, in fact, a clear sense of the rule of law. In this way we anticipate, that, as far as Members and Members know, because it forms part of our work..., but it is very good to say and to remember, because, at the end and in the end, what is represented by the acts and the diary of sessions is what ends up making a return of thanks, so let's say – and I want to say – many thanks to all the people and all the entities that have appeared before these poses, that have appeared not only by saying, let's say, his father, but also suggestions, making see that many times – because this happens to all those who have governmental responsibilities –..., the paper hates everything, but the reality and the response respect to the fact that the paper has not so much in common that it has not so much in common, therefore? And, in this sense, the willingness on the part of Juntes for the Yes and of the people who have worked, as I said, also, in this final report, therefore, of what is the law..., has been with this willingness to listen, to be loving and to have, if not, the peace of being able to do the best possible law. And here, finally, I will make a short rest, and possibly I will leave someone – I wouldn't want to –: the Council of Colleges of Metges of Catalonia; the Council of Colleges of Nurses and Nurses; the coordinator of the Camfic research unit; the president of the Catalan Society of Medicine of Urgènciaes; the White Sea; the mayor of Sant Andreu de la Barca, as representative of the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia; the mayor of Figueres, representing the Catalan Association of Municipalities; Works Commissions; UGT; the immigrants' space of the Raval and the Consulting Council of Patients. I don't think I'm leaving anyone, and if I'm leaving anyone, I'm sorry. Logically, the obligation that touches us as elected representatives and parliamentary chamber is to listen, to be loving, but above all, of all them, I insist, we also after, have given us the exact measure many times of certain realities that in the day to day are much more complex. And it is with this will that we have made a front to listen to the conjunction of the people who have come..., and the work. In my second intervention, I will, in any case, like the spokesman of Salut and also of Junts per el Si, just complement it with some reflection. But in any case, I insist again, many, many thanks for the construction and for what we have learned. Thank you very much, really.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.47.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candini. Next, in the first place has the word, in order to defend the reserved items, in representation of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, Mrs. Marisa Xandri.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.48.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, well, we are ahead of the Universalization of Health Care Law Project, with the support of the public, through the Catalan Health Service, a bill that has been dealt with in an express way, with great haste on the part of the Government, a bill that your opinion was approved in the past Health Commission and which, from today, will be green with the gathering of all parliamentary groups, except that of the Catalonia People's Party. I do not know whether the Ciutadans Group will finally join our vote against. After our speech to the original text, we presented a follow-up of papers, a follow-up of papers that we keep alive in this plenary, but that do not, of course, re-establish the support of the rest of the groups, because our proposal does not go through this project of opening up sanitation to everyone, as is foreseen in this law. The People's Party will not support this bill basically for four reasons: firstly, because we think that something important has been omitted, and that it is sustainability of this proposal; secondly, because they make a proposal totally parallel to that of the Government of the State; another important issue from our point of view is that there is no consensus, there is no consensus, in the health world, and, as it stands, the text is generating a lot of doubts, and so they have found us to be users and professionals of private sanitation, because it is a question that... politically, therefore, it is not very correct, to go against this law, but many people think that it is not appropriate. And finally, we won't support it for a social justice issue. And I'll start with the first one. We think it's a universal law – obviously, it has to be a universal law, which guarantees the universality of sanitation – but it's not sustainable, and I think it can contextualize the political moment we're living in. In the real political moment, at the state level we are ahead of a legislature in which, as you all know, it is necessary to agree and reach agreements on questions that go hand in hand, and, above all, on questions that make reference to sanitation. Today, the People's Party, together with Ciutadans, has committed ourselves to ensuring this universal coverage of the national health system ensuring the sustainability of a public health system of quality and free in a comprehensive decentralisation; I repeat, ensuring the sustainability of a public health system of quality and free. And, in the framework of this pact, they will take the appropriate decisions that precisely give the maximum coverage. That's why I'm also taking advantage of calling Ciutadan's company so that they don't give the visa to this law, because we think that the first thing that's solved is at national level. I think that approving said different pre-projects, one for each autonomous community, on the sidelines of what is being done at the level of state government..., seems a misproposal to us. And it's true that in other autonomous communities all the demands are being met, but it's also true that social reality is not the same as Catalonia, where in the last decade, in the last two years, more than a million immigrants have arrived. And that's a given... no better or worse, but what's obvious is that it has to value the economic impact it has at the time of social politics. If we really want to give a universal service, free and of quality, and reduce waiting lists in all areas of salvation, we must prioritize, because, as is obvious, users and professionals, in the end, also end up feeling sorry. And instead of looking for realist solutions, what's done with this law is dazzle that here, in Catalonia, everyone – everyone – will have sanitation guaranteed, in all areas. After we complain about health tourism, which is – there is, counselor –, and that the same new people who have fallen here speak ill of their fellow countrymen who are irregularly found in Catalonia. I know it's politically incorrect, but I think I'm saying things for his name. There is no health system in the world that can incorporate more than a million new people in two years without feeling 'n. Why? So, because we have a health system that we can't afford. And in Catalonia there are more than seven million health-care providers, more than one hundred thousand workers, more than four hundred CAPs, more than eight hundred local consultants and six hundred hospitals in the public sector. In a few countries in Europe an immigrant who has just arrived has health and education of franc; most of them only guarantee emergency services. And I said it in the debate of totality and I repeat it, because I think it is very illustrative: in Germany, with a much higher GDP than ours, Social-Democratic Chancellor Schröder more than twelve years ago did not only introduce co-payment, but it established that the only free provision to illegal, irregular, urgent immigrants. On March 22, when the government brought the preliminary draft to the plenary, the councillor alleged that it was a legal duty that favors 65,000 persons regardless of their administrative situation; that 65,000 persons more able to access the entire service portfolio is a legal duty. Counselor, what is a legal and social justice duty is to give the coverage that is deserved to all those who have paid or paid taxes and who have shared or contributed to social security, regardless of who their country of origin is. That day you avoided giving economic data, just like today, because, according to him, it was an irrelevant data. His words: "It is a question of guaranteeing this right to the margin of economic allo. And the truth is that it's surprising, because I just want to remind him that in his first appearance in Parliament, he recognized that the issue of waiting lists, one of the endemic problems of Catalan sanitation, was difficult to solve, and that they amount to at least a million euros. Therefore, universality, yes; yes, but accompanied by sustainability. Second of all, this is a law that is obviously outside the scope of current legislation – it has already become clear, isn't it? – But I also want to highlight the measures adopted by the Government of the State in the previous legislature, which have allowed us to strengthen universality, equity, cohesion and efficiency, as well as the modernization of the system, to expand the service portfolio and to improve the strategy to face the own chronicity of a country that is ahead of us in the hope of life in the European Union. By Royal Decree 16/2012, the concepts of insurance and beneficiaries have been clarified, and the right has been recognized to persons who have been excluded from the system for decades – in the case of professionals, lawyers, engineers or architects. And here I want to remind you that the same Socialist Party has recognized this concern to try to resolve this issue in the last minute of its mandate through a reform of Law 33/2011, the General Law of Public Health, of 4 October, that is, in the last minute. Moreover, since 2012 the long-running stops that have exhausted the benefit also have right to healthcare – certainly, a decree that was lost with the Royal Decree law 1/1992, urgent measures on the promotion of work. And to make a little history: the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party to the Congress of Deputies had advanced to this reality in 2009, with a GNP on universal and free healthcare for all Spaniards and which would culminate with the Royal Decree of 2012. As for the foreign citizens who are in Spain in an irregular administrative situation, our country has the most protectionist legal framework for people without right to healthcare coverage in Europe, the best legal framework and the most solid. Specifically, the regulations guarantee irregular immigrants assistance in cases of urgency arising from a severe illness or accident until the high doctor is given. In the same way, it gives coverage to the assistance to the pregnant, to the part and to the postpart, and, in all cases, to the minor of division years. Moreover, citizens have access to all health protection and public prevention programs, vaccinations, prevention and control of infectious diseases. The last year has worked to give a step further and to harmonize, together with the autonomous communities, the different actions in the field of health promotion, prevention of diseases and provision of health assistance for non-registered and authorized foreigners that suppose that the gateway to the health system for these people continues as the rest of the citizen in the primary care centres, and that it guarantees the dispensation of health care to these people in a situation of vulnerability due to lack of economic resources with effective permanence in our country, that they do six months that are registered. So, well, why do I want to do this reflection? So, look, because I want to make it very clear that from the central government is doing everything possible to attend to as many people as possible, even though you have doubts about it, whether it's from here or from there, but in terms of social justice. And, well, returning to Catalonia, in an emergency, I repeat, here we have it, the law. However, a law which in its Article 2.3 recognises as residents ‘the persons who believe the relationship to Catalonia by substantiating the criteria which are deployed by regulation and which must have as their object the granting of access to health care, on public grounds, to collects at risk of social exclusion. Moreover, according to Article 3.2, persons who do not have the condition of residents are entitled to emergency health care – they would only be absent – "and to the continuity of this attention until the situation of high medicine or definite healing of the cause for which they have registered the centre. In short, as proposed, from the approval of this law in Catalonia it will be possible to make use of the health services of any person, apart from their administrative situation. In fact, what this law does is regulate something..., it's already done – it's already done – but it's not leaving anyone at the stand. Counselor, this has already been done, in Catalonia and Spain, but we are now announcing it with a bright sign that, in a sense of doubt, therefore, we think it will produce a critical effect. And I've come to this – this claimed effect – with another reason why we don't share this law, and it's the issue of social injustice. I mean, with this text that opens the doors to irregular immigrant tourists to enjoy our health care system, the same way that Catalans and newcomers do, who do have their residence recognized, and who like anyone here pay their taxes and contribute to the social security box. And this, from our point of view, is a social injustice, a hardship to all those who find themselves among the system, whether born here or not: we have worked and paid the taxes religiously so that we can now precisely have a quality healthcare service, which is true that it has some flowing points, but we can talk about how we enjoy a very good health care. And, in this sense, this law does not provide for sufficient control mechanisms so that there is no abuse, for the benefit of both patients, as well as health professionals, as in the same health system. Therefore, it is neither fair nor fair, as much as I want to see it. And this is a question, therefore, that they have not alerted us – they have not alerted us, and I have said it, I have commented it before, counselor, and I want to comment, deputies and deputies – patients, users and professionals, that they may not have done it publicly, but I can assure you that they have done it privately. And finally, I mean, too, right? That you here speak of the fact that there is a consensus, a consensus by entities, of the whole health community. So, we don't agree on this: after listening to the different peers, before starting the trouble, not everyone agrees to process the law as it stood. And clearly and forcefully we are told, for example, the representatives of the transplant sector, who see it impossible to apply it for what it does to donations and transplants, and may I remind you that Catalonia is a world leader in this issue. So not everyone thinks this is a good law. For all this, we will not support this law, because we understand that, if Catalonia is to become the hospital of the world, the world will have to contribute in the same way as Catalonia does, eh? , so as to continue to maintain a quality health system. Justice consists in giving to each individual what is his or her own, no less – no less – but neither, because he or she would take him or her to Catalans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.49.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr. Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.50.0	Thank you again, President. Today we are having a very important debate that frames one of the health issues that must be addressed if we are to have quality, universal and public health care. PP MP, asking for help with that speech I think it's a big mistake. It reminded me of 2012, when the PP announced one day the Royal Decree Law on Urgent Measures to ensure the sustainability of the national health system. At that time you were doing and undoing without anyone putting limits on them, and we all know what was happening at that time while sustainability was being questioned. In that royal decree they differentiated the persons who contribute from those who do not. They said publicly that they intended to regulate health tourism, that they did not regulate, and that it is still unregulated, and above that they left out the students. Today you insist on that. I also remember that time, when I was doing research on health inequalities: I had published several studies in which it characterized the health attendance, the distribution of job losses, pharmaceutical consumption, the type of assistance that was provided to immigrants in emergency services. Knowing the topic, I claimed the lack of consensus, rigour, as well as the oblivion of circuits to integrate prevention, comprehensive care of people and the management of chronic pathology, to cite some situations of which I already know that I am a great defender from the perspective of primary care as a central axis that I think the health system should have. They have also heard me explain that both in the agreement that Citizens signed with the Sánchez Socialist Party, the one that neither Podemos nor the nationalists wanted to support, and in the next, as in the present, with the PP, both included the need to address this debate and to reach a broad agreement so as not to generate more territorial inequalities. And that is especially important because they know that, although the Royal Decree 2012 is in force, in many communities it does not apply de facto: in the majority it is still the registration criterion that regulates access to the health card. And these agreements are important because in Citizens we work to implement some of the health reforms that both professionals and users claim. And to do this, we cannot do things without consensus, but we must make comprehensive reforms that are consistent so that they will last in time. The mistakes of the past cannot be repeated. I believe that nobody escapes that that is what the health system needs: consensus and stable reforms. A while ago I heard about the unfortunate waiting lists we have in Catalonia. We know that reforms and funding are important to alleviate them, and that is why I have encouraged the Councillor once again to work with institutional loyalty to improve them. I have asked you to support the transparency measures that we from Citizens request to improve this management; most are autonomous competences that, with consensus and without added cost, could be implemented for the improvement of everyone. I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Candini, and the team that participated in this law. They know that I have looked with a certain scepticism at this law made with the two-day papers. There was an evening in which more than a dozen experts were asked to do so as soon as possible, and those I take advantage of here to thank you for your efforts and involvement. And then this law was closed with the two-morning debate to discuss the amendments. It is, therefore, a forced law, with the utmost urgency, because it is clearly electoral. They know that the health card is obtained in the centres of Catalonia under the criteria of registration, but they have decided to process a law as a matter of urgency because they need to pass some health law. Whatever the law says: it has prevailed that the headline sounds nice. They know that the legislature is dying and must put some health law in its memory. They are also aware that there is a possibility that some group that today passes this law here in Catalonia, when the time comes to substantiate it there, in the Congress of Deputies, will then vote against it. That is what they did a few months ago with the law of dignified death, and I told them so from this faction: here they put on medals and, then, in the place where they should have given the support for equity and equality to be effective for those who suffer, then they did not want to join the great pacts, essential to stabilize a better public health system. If you are also kind enough to read the law carefully, you will see that it is to regulate accessibility to the Catalan health system, and it includes errors as surprising as those alerted in last Thursday's commission, and I will re-synthesize them below. The seventh additional provision states that the Government "must allocate the necessary resources to pay the pension supplement of the nursing staff and other health professionals of the Institut Català de la Salut who were pre-retired before 2005. Look, with the measure we fully agree: do the Government the favor of paying what it owes to its retirees. Now, what does this do in this law? Nothing, it's a stick. That is why I asked to withdraw what was a joint amendment which, of course, should not be in this article, but in any other government decree, but here it paints nothing, absolutely nothing. Nor does it paint the fifth provision: in another clear concession for amending groups to be happy, they allowed this health accessibility law to incorporate a gender perspective into health policies and reduce inequalities between women and men. Well, there would be more to it if we agreed on this, of course. Who doesn't agree with this? But how can we pass laws that include points that have nothing to do with the law? That doesn't offer a serious image. Look, you are well aware of my work in defending Catalan public health and you know that we agree with the objective of ensuring universal assistance with public funds. After the questioning that today..., in which I again explained the great problems that the Catalan public health has and the low economic percentage that we allocate to correct the, we could not argue financial insufficiency on the part of the state unilaterally increasing the benefits and the beneficiaries above what marked in the laws. It is not the Parliament where this should be discussed according to our laws and our Constitution. In fact, this is a new step in the direction of the challenge to the State disguised as false humanitarianism, to see if they are hunting down any press headlines. Let us focus the debate on implementing equality policies; less separation and more equality. You know that there is a process of dialogue going on throughout the State to try to reach a national pact on the future of our national health system – suggested the deputy of the PP. Citizens have made it an inexcusable condition for reaching such a pact to reach agreement between the majority political forces on the scope and benefits of the universalization of health care. Thanks to Dr. Igea and the orange team for that dedicated effort they are making to reach that consensus. They know that citizens consider access to the health system to be indispensable as a right of citizenship, not as a right of insurance, and therefore they know that we share the right of universalization that this law projects. And that is why we should not approach this debate by making mistakes through the back door. I told them a few months ago that we don't urge Madrid to do it, but we go to Madrid and we do it. We will do the same to those who will govern Catalonia with an alternative project for all Catalans. I firmly believe that there are many things about the health system that are very well, especially I recognize the many virtues of the Catalan system, which I am deeply proud of. They know that healing is a jewel of the crown of our welfare state. Unfortunately, the old parties opted for cuts in our health. The PP preferred to dismantle social services rather than puncture the political bubble. In Catalonia, Convergence acted in the same way; here too corruption and desire through reforms are the cause of the unjust cuts: they have managed to bleed the professionals of the health system. We say: "We must not give in to a step by defending our jewel, by defending our public health system. Not privatizations, not putting their financing at risk. We must not forgive the defrauders or allow them to continue to mistreat the parapets in the sustainability of the system. Those who want to carry out reforms will do so with institutional loyalty and we will find political, professional and social consensus, that is how things must be done. In addition, they already know me well enough to know that I will welcome that, for reasons of efficiency and equity, health accessibility is achieved through primary care, avoiding the use of the emergencies imposed in decree 2012. It's time to get back to the middle and working class, it's time to get back to the health care workers, it's time to bet on the white coats that work for everyone's well-being. President, Councillor Comín, Members and Members, to do all that possible can count on me, they can count on Citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.51.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. Then comes the words of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.52.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. The truth is, maybe today I'm deceiving them with my intervention, but I want to talk about the Universalization Law and I want to talk about rights. And I want to talk about the right to salvation, which is what this law says today: a universal right, the right to salvation. And we do that one day... it's not a historic day for me, because we've lived so many historical days that, in the end, we're spoiling them in this Parliament. But today, forty years ago, of the first democratic elections, and I've certainly heard some intervention from this Faristol that doesn't even seem to have passed these forty years, and it's really surprising. From here, I will begin my intervention on the Law of Universalization. [[Someone's applauding.]] First place, I want to give thanks – thanks, Angels [[the speaker laughs]] – to the Members, above all to the Members, who we were part of the question – to the Members because we were basically Members, who we were there –; in concrete terms, to the Member Montserrat Candini, who acted as a layperson. Good availability on the part of everyone – she also said – to agree to seek the best written and to keep the best possible law. Give thanks also from here to all the people and entities who appeared, who gave us their time, and their knowledge and experiences. Many of them... daily work with collectivities at risk of social exclusion, and today they also wanted to accompany us. Many thanks to all of you for being here and for being there, as well as to the municipal authorities and professional bodies that were there. This is a short law, we could say: it is a law of five articles and six additional provisions. Sometimes, very important things can be said with very few words; neither many articles nor great expressions of motive: willfulness and recognition of rights. The law of universalization on public grounds is an important law. It is a matter, and I would like to say to the Councilman, to definitively and with legal guarantees the universalization of public health care and to eliminate any inequality that may exist. It is true that Catalonia, through protocols and instructions, was tried to eliminate, but they existed. We've seen it, in the appearances they also expressed it to us. For many things: because the lack of clarity expressed was not legal recognition and the legal led to confusion, many times, and some bad practice. Therefore, there is no need, and this is what the law is trying to shield, no inequality between people residing in Catalonia. I said the Constitution, I said the Statute of Autonomy: the right to access under conditions of equality and free of charge to health services of public responsibility. I am remarque a point from the preamble of this law: the great advent that in universalization made the General Law of Sanitation of 1986, the Lluch law; he also gave us what country we wanted to be. And I think today, here too – here or there, but here all folds – of this democracy, is what we are defending. This universal coverage system in Catalonia we armored the year 2010. The law of 2010 is a law of comprehensive coverage, which extends to the registered persons of any municipality, and also to persons belonging to collections at risk of exclusion, regardless of whether they are registered or not. But today we call this law, we could say, if we already have that of 2010, among other things for the People's Party decree of the year 2012. The preamble to the law that we are adopting today says with great purpose that "the State has adopted some legislative measures which may be considered a fracture of which has been a national system of salvation. In short, what he wants to say is that, in a way, above all, this guarantee of the sustainability of the national health system has resulted in the salvation of the citizens and what he has done is to expel from public health coverage persons without residence permits, the most vulnerable and many other collectivities, who were left out of the decree, as I said, of 2012; a decree which, using the words of Mrs. Xandri, is indeed a "great disproposal: it was a great disproposal on the world of salvation, because it did not only violate the right to salvation, but also generated, and generated, problems of public salvation. There are many collections that, by culture, by lack of economic media, by reason, have many difficulties to access the health system, and this ends up feeling a problem of public health. Today's law presents us with some fundamental principles that we believe are worth mentioning, even though they have already been done, but I believe they have been improving, too, through the papers in their contents and expression. It is clear that "all persons residing in Catalonia have a right to health care, with public funds, through the Catalan Health Service, that those who do not have "the condition of insured persons or beneficiaries of the national health system" – that it is always the People's Party – have to credit the residence in Catalonia, and that the residence is credited by means of the flag. And the definition is very clear. What do we mean by residents? Those who are registered in a municipality of Catalonia, but also those who believe the relationship to Catalonia by substantiating other criteria, and who object to giving access to health care, with public funds, to collects at risk of social exclusion. Today, the councilman took the compromise of celerity in the regulation; let's hope that that's the way it is and that's how we trust it. And what we're asking, because this came out a lot in the appearances and also in the work of the pose, is very clear in the rules, and above all, it's very clear who these other mechanisms will be related as widely as possible. Because, as I have said, I must be very curious about social exclusion-risk collections because health care is a reality, because, and I would say that, because, out of ignorance, because of difficulties, they fall into the hands of professionals and this is one of the things we want to change. It is also determined that emergency health care..., which is already good, which is always good, goes, but that it also guarantees continuity until high medicine or healing, and that, by means of the regulation, the indicators of economic insufficiency are also established, which we have... We did not just agree on who it was and therefore we said: "The one who was always most beneficial to the person. Rule, as I said, it's going to be quick. It has been incorporated, too, that those collectors or those persons who are in a situation of social vulnerability will be exempt from making any contribution to the outpatient pharmaceutical service: an important issue that we have been able to incorporate and that was not there, in the first proposal. One of the aspects that the participants..., and on the question we also insisted a lot, is that it is collected..., is the guarantee of the right of access, with training programs to Cat Salut staff and a clear and understandable information, so that in no case can behave equivocal in relation to the right of access to health services. And in the same line, facilitate the mechanism of obtaining the document clearly and easily accredited, and fight the fraud. To avoid populisms or demagogies, there is no better way than to be clear, transparent and fight the fraud. I have just reproduced a paragraph from the preamble because it seems to me a good way to finish: this law solemnly establishes that "all persons residing in Catalonia have the right to health care, with public funds, culminating in our territory the universalization of health care. This law will serve the entire population without exclusion, in all areas of medicine – preventive, curative, health promotion, rehabilitative and palliative – and in each and every stage of their lives. I think that's a good way to end it. And give calm to Congressman Jorge Soler, because the Law of Universalization is on the program of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, which is discussing it this weekend, and has a lot to take on what is the content of this universalization. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.53.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. Next is the words of Mrs Àngels Martínez, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.54.0	Well, thank you very much, Madam President. And I also want to start by thanking the people who worked most on the pose. Yes, we were above all women, even though with some of the women that we have frequented..., sometimes I come to the head those words of Manuela Carmena and her belief or faith in reinsertion: I really need to make efforts to think that it is possible to reintegrate certain people into politics. But, in any case, I appreciate the good work done by the committee at the remote, the case manager and above all – above all – the people who took part in the polls: I think it was..., they did a wonderful job of explaining. And I would like to say to the counselor that, well, I don't know if it's a historic day, but in any case it's a day that seems to me, as at least – as at least – as historic as the one that starred in 2011, at the end of 2011, in Madrid, when the Law of universal sanitation was approved, curiously, by 341 votes in favour: in such a bipartisan congress, therefore, it turned out that there were only two abstentions, that I don't think they were either the PP, or obviously the Socialists, who proposed the law. And, in turn – this went on September – on November 20, 20-N of that year, the PP won by an absolute majority. And in April 2012, another historic moment too, but for the ominous history of this country, right? Ana Mato's law decree, which represented a step backwards in universalization, because it returned to the questions of returns from social security and work, and third rights to the citizenry. But the worst of all is that it's taken victims. And I want to tell them here, 'cause they don't forget. The first, who knew, was Soledad Torrico, in València, waiting for an ambulance that told him that he did not go there because he did not have papers; Alpha Pam, from an absolutely curable malalty since years ago, in Mallorca, 2013, and Jeanneth Beltrán, in Toledo, who had the good faith to say: "No, no, let's wait a little longer because the papers are coming to me, the papers are already coming to me. He died before the papers came to him. And all this generated acceptance values for the death of immigrants. In the end and in the end, why should immigrants be educated and cured? That they come clean and educated now, here, and above all that they dodge the rubber balls to the beaches of Ceuta. [[Greetings.]] And it creates cultural values that do not like, that do not like people, to the majority of people, but, in change, they form a culture of xenophobia; culture of xenophobia that has banal, bureaucratic expressions, like that which the Lord counsel has already quoted before: to the son of Argentine tourists who ask for five thousand euros to pass, before the ghost of metges, the night to urgency to the Hospital of the Sea; to the Hospital of the Sea, we have to manage the Lord Olga Pané, who is one of the people who takes one of the sub-highest of the public sector of Catalonia. That they pass five thousand euros to Mrs. Olga Pané and make sure that all the four-year-olds who arrive, as the law says, can have the attention they deserve. [[Greetings.]] Because the universalization of salvation, it is true, recommends the WHO. And the counselor says: "It's in the DNA of Catalonia and the healthcare service of Catalonia. Look, yeah, but mostly it's in the DNA of the good people, and that's proven so much. Clearly, and then how is this universalization to be done? And here I only answer for a moment to Mr. Jorge Soler, who doesn't have to do me, but it's that I couldn't be, because this thought I think is from Catalonia Yes, it's Pot. Listen, if there's a gender bias in sanitation, how do you want this gender bias not to be passed on to universal sanitation as well, any more than it is universal? But we have to watch a lot, because values and practices that we believe plebiscites, but they have – he said and he recognized it, you were, the same president, the same..., yes, president of the College of Metges of Catalonia –..., is not translated to the universalization of sanitation. So, to warn, to try to put a cure on this question seems to me to be a matter of speech and people get over it. It is to say, for me, look, even though it is sober, that every time we approve of a law in this Parliament, it is to say: "And it counts on the quality of the genera, and that this helps the women, really, to improve in terms of fairness, just as you have to be very happy because this law really changes the weight of universality to the primary, and I believe that it is something that you see clear and fought for that, but that has been, I think, the unanimous support, also, of the commission. What's left for us to do now? So, we have to keep an eye on the rules. The truth is that I'm not as clear as the rule will be, but I haven't spoken to the department's staff and I think it's gonna be a rule that I'm loving and that I'm tuned in to how it was created and forged that law. But they ask the organisations that are here and they ask the same parliamentarians that are very much in the water, and that if it is, then we will make the motions, and the PRs, and whatever it is that the regulation is better suited to what we want to get with this law, that for another band I think it will be that way. But I believe, too, that there must be a very loving municipal job; a municipal job adds, together with parliamentary work, because the censuses depend on the joints, and it is the joints that will ultimately have to change this universalization of health care into a positive one, overall and for people who do not have access, therefore, to the CAP, to health care, etc.; sometimes we have not talked to Mrs. Escarp, about the people who are confined to the house, and that the joints know it and that they must achieve that universalization reaches those people who cannot reach the health care system. And what's up, too? It is necessary to seize the citizenry so that it does not go back to the way it went with the other law of universalization, which turns out to confirm that joy lasts a little while at the home of the poor. If people are clear that there is this universalization of sanitation, that it's about public funds, and it's theirs, and it's defense and it's got it like a right won, won, not held back, so it'll defend it better. Therefore, I think that yes, that today is not a day to be sad, today is a day of celebration, it is a day to take strength, it is a day to continue to improve, it is a good day for health and politics, and it is good, especially, for the lives of these people that some want marginalities, precarious, invisible. We, with this law, make them visible to the health care system, they are relaxed or they are on the run, and that is why it will be clear that from the meetings, from the organisations and from the Parliament we continue to improve what is beginning today. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.55.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martinez. Next is the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.56.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Thanks to all the people who accompany us, to the collective, who are in fact the ones who have worked all these years to guarantee a right such as the right to salvation, to denounce everything that impedes or generates a worrying, shameful health exclusion and in the background something that should be illegal, and that, therefore, it is also thanks to them and to them that we are here today. Because despite the fact that it has cost more... There is someone who says that he has gone very quickly; I would say that, in order to be of emergency transport, we would have to worry a little when we are going through emergency things in more than six months, because the debate to the whole we did on November 30, and the appearances we voted them – not that we kept them – on March 16. I..., it's a few dates that remind me of another processing, but this would be the government and Junts for the Yes, to know if the processing of the law has to see also the processing of assumptions. But I'm leaving it here, because it's true that today is a day that we can be happy, despite the fact that it's a little bit too late to pull the pilot forward, because we're still leaving some things that are about to close them to the rule. And it's obvious that in the second rule how it can be more flexible, but now it's a "good, we'll see how it's done, right? And, therefore, we are happy, we have to be, but we also have to be vigilant, loving and working because it really is concrete in the line in which it is concrete: it is to say, that those collections that are currently excluded from the health system are incorporated; that we really work to eradicate inequalities, gender and class inequalities, and that, therefore, in the face of a migrant and a migrant woman they still have more to work, or we have more to work, because with a woman and a migrant, therefore, it is clear that inequality is still much higher. And, therefore, that we incorporate into the law an element of analysis of gender inequalities in the health system you also have to see how we guarantee universalization and how we work to eliminate inequalities at all levels. But I think we should go on this line. For us, right? – to put it a little in context–, it is obvious that we came in 2012 from a decree, which I have already said before, embarrassing, as at least; from an instruction that it was short and that in the background it did not just guarantee to what it said it wanted to guarantee, because for something also from 2012 until now we have been accumulating cases to public health where it was not provided health care to migrants without papers, although it is said that it could be done. We came from here; we came from a proposal approved in this Parliament where you said that you are working to ensure the universalization of the right to sanitation, a proposal approved on November 9, 2015. And on November 9, 2015, we're in mid-June 2017, and that's when we approve. So everyone who says we've been very fast, so maybe we haven't been that fast. There was an element, there was..., it was important to work on..., or to improve from the original writing what I had to see with the padro, what I had to see with the emergencies, what I had to see with the formation. I believe that we have improved a little with the standard, despite the fact that we continue with the debate about what we want to say or what we may want to say on the spot; what we may want to say in situations of risk of social exclusion. I mean, we're gonna have to work on this, but we've gotten a little better. The collections that have been working there for years, however, are somewhat disappointed, or they expect us to move forward a little further, because we always end up subjecting everything to administrative procedures which, for the second five types of collections, are difficult to do, too, aren't they? And that, therefore, here we must watch. In the matter of urgency we have also advanced. And on the subject of training, which is cabdal..., the training of health personnel is cabdal because everyone knows no longer just the people who are right, but who are right to..., or who are to lend each. This is important and, therefore, we have been better. So it's obvious that we're giving it support, it was unquestionable. But we also say we'll be loving, we'll work and we'll press because the rule went beyond what we couldn't get to this law. But we have to say that we are not worried about certain speeches, because they come from political parties that are campaigning to "clean up Badalona, xenophobia and racism that emanate from us do not surprise us. But this obsessed with irregular immigrants who don't pay taxes... I would ask: why, when they go to the supermarket, don't they pay VAT? Is VAT not a tax? , plus, too much, absolutely too much in many of the basic products. Why, then, if irregular immigrants who do not pay taxes do not have to have the right to salvation guaranteed, to all those who appear to the "papers of Panama neither do we guarantee the right to salvation? [[Greetings.]] José Manuel Soria has a right to salvation? Does the Thyssen family have a right to salvation? Nuñez y Clemente has the right to salvation? Does Franco's besnets have a right to salvation? All of them, to the « papers of Panama : tax evaders, do not pay taxes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay... [[Widow's remorse.]] I don't know, I mean, with this logic we're in the same... Let's play at the same level. And I would say to Congresswoman Xandri... yes, you said the measures of the Spanish Government in the previous legislature around this subject, you spoke among them of..., you mentioned it: among them, cohesion. Yes, he cohesed all health personnel to denounce an unworthy decree, cohesed all health personnel to defend a basic right. This... yes, yes, he did, congratulated: he achieved something that had cost a lot in years, that is that the healthcare staff go to one to defend a basic right. And I would say that talking about social injustice and barring tourists and immigrants is a very low level, because it's denigrating immigrants and it's continuing to deepen in the class class that your party day by day with its defense policies. [[Greetings.]] Because the right to salvation is not invented by the Councilor Comin, nor this Parliament nor the collectivities that defend it. Universal Declaration of Human Rights: "Everyone has a right to a standard of living that assures, for him and his family, salvation and well-being. International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights: "States are part of this pact – the Spanish State is part of this pact – "recognize the right of everyone to enjoy the highest possible level of physical and mental health. Among the measures to be taken by the states in this pact in order to achieve the full realization of this right, are the following: prevention, treatment and control of epidemic, endemic, occupational and all kinds of diseases; the creation of conditions that assure everyone the medical service and assistance in case of diseases. But we could continue: the European Convention on Human Rights talks about the principle of equality and non-discrimination; the Constitution of the World Health Organization... It is about guaranteeing the right to salvation to everyone, and instead I have seen that it is to whom it pays taxes, to whom it does not, no; there is not, this vest. I mean, it's that we can go on with this speech, but more than that, she's lying, because when they're buying taxes. Therefore, I believe that you can follow with your speech, you can follow a flag of a defense of "first the home and then the rest, that neither, because 90_percent of details in policies of international cooperation..., this solidarity that you systematically ask is not seen by place, to the Government of the Spanish State. But, well, you can go on with this speech, which while we're here, we'll approve this law and work because the rule guarantees that everyone who lives in Catalonia has a right to salvation with quality and free. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.57.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. Next has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, Ms Montserrat Candini.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.58.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Comín has already made his intervention explaining the main developments of this law: that he settles for law that all people living in Catalonia have the right to public health care, that the father continues to feel the main way to accredit the residence, but that other criteria are also established to accredit the arrangement or the process; the elimination of the three_months of care; public coverage to the resident Catalans to alienate it via register. Four essential aspects of the deployment: the compromise of a rapid deployment through a regulation that will be made in a very long time, of three_months; the pro-activity of the CatHello in the diffusion of the contents of this law to all entities of the Siscat and to the citizenry in general; the reinforcement of the surveillance systems to detect situations of fraud of the law, and the regulation jointly elaborated with all entities of the sector. Some figures respect who benefits, how many people can benefit from the law from the moment of their entry: 72,000 people, who are currently receiving this coverage through the instruction that was made, therefore, the year 2012 by the Government of the Generalitat to combat the decree of Madrid. Giving coverage to that people will mean this 2017 around 85_million euros. And how many people can bear the benefit of the generality's instructions? About 137,000 people since 2012. The compromise is clear, I have mentioned it now, to make this presentation. And, therefore, we too, as the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes, would not only be loving, but also with the same will and vocation of work... and also, apart from the entities, logically, the maximum, let us say, openness with the conjunction of political parties to finish this work provided that it was done in the pre-project of the law and that, therefore, it has gone so well from the point of view..., with this absolutely constructed. There have been some manifestations, of which I think I am in a very clear position..., and I do not feel people like being able to feel them in a parliamentary chamber, but I believe that there is something basic in a principle such as the principle of salvation, right to salvation, that there is no one free from social need, and in this case the issue of salvation is basic. Clearly, on behalf of Mrs Xandri, I appreciate her, but I am sorry that in the intervention she has made, in certain aspects... Clearly, one of the points you make is the "basic regulation of the State". We know what the basic rules of the State are, which are all 'basic', and 'basic' means you don't think and we decide, because that's what every day—every day, day, day, day—as a fine rain. And it's the same if they're social rights, like what this is, obviously, like other aspects. Therefore, let one of its members really follow the basic regulations of the State, so, "mommy, por! Why does the experience go with us, right? And, therefore, we understand that it is absolutely regressed before the rights, as universal rights, which are now mentioned, as is the subject of salvation. But, of course, you spoke of sustainability, MP – you spoke of sustainability. Home, that the People's Party is talking about sustainability... you don't have to want to refer to the Beaver, do you? : €1,200_million [[Someone's applauding.]] No, no, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, listen, when... Madrid's radial motorways; rescue a private debt: 3,200_million euros– 3,200_million euros– in public money, make them – public money, make them – to the private sector. Sustainability? Home, I would have a little bit more of a cure – a little bit more of a cure – because sustainability doesn't go through barrels, when it's political. Sustainability goes from a point of view, therefore, of political values, of creeds; it is true, of principles, too. There is something, because in politics or is priority or is not priority, as in so many things. But, above all, above all, of what goes – above all, above all – is..., man, with a much more global view. It is not sustainable the Castor, it is obvious, nor is it sustainable everything that has to do with Madrid's radial motorways as they come to us, in something as sensitive as what we are defending today, which is the Law of Universalization of Salvation, to say that the main criterion is sustainability. Sustainability will be possible, logically, in infrastructure; sustainability will be in aspects from a point of view of planning and governance, which has much to see about country models, city models, models..., but which has to see with policies of monitoring towards the possible prosperity. But do you respect universal rights? , respect for social needs? What sustainability are we talking about? What we must ensure, above all, is that no one lacks this social need. Therefore, I sincerely believe that the concept of'sustainability' should not be used by you: Castor, €1,200_million; rescue private debt from highway radials, 3,200. Also comment to Congressman Jorge Soler, who did not recognize him, either, in his intervention. Congressman, you know I appreciate that, too. Deia: "Home, in two mornings– in two mornings– we made the ponies. You know, Congressman, we closed the calendar for four days, when we sent... if you forget, what you were. That is to say, in this reflection, or in this one, let us say to ourselves, his expression, someone might think that we have said: "Such a day, such a day, and we fill it quickly. It's not that, and you know it. We made it available four days from the start, as if there were six days, eight days, five days, whatever they were. The work, sometimes, does not let us do all the work, and I understand it perfectly, but, man, we do not reduce ourselves to certain things, because it makes us feel that... A law of these characteristics so important and so important it is worth all the time in the world, as we dedicated it to listening to entities, of which, logically – and I have commented on it in my first intervention – we learned, we listened and we held the porus absolutely open. But we don't reduce ourselves in this sense. You've done a whole series of considerations, Congressman, that this law incorporated things... something you didn't even touch. Indeed, one of them – one of them –, all that I had to see with the thought of the nurses of retirement, all the collection of nurses, which you perfectly know that it was not Junts' mistake for the Yes, but Ciutadans, that he could not enter into the processing of assumptions. So, a little more prudence. Third prudence, and it doesn't go with you, Congressman Soler – it doesn't go with you. How can you, that you are such a serene person, with your expression, so cautious, can do a whole series of reflections respecting the subject of the Advance Bill of Universalization, that at the end and at the end of a whole series of things that you say you don't come down, and you haven't presented a single one more than the joint? Here it is, when you're a fan and you're discussing things... man, a little bit of work done, which you always do, so you surprise us. But don't tell us a story..., someone who is listening to us here, who doesn't exactly know the amount of work that has been done individually and to benefit on the part of all political parties, so, very good work – some more than others – from the point of view of delivery and dedication, I mean, when at the time... then, at the time of these reflections, you don't need a single item. And one of the things we've had..., that you're incorporated in it is because at a certain time..., there's a difficulty in dealing with the assumptions, there's a mistake – unintended, of course – and in order not to delay this, we'll incorporate it, we'll incorporate it into this universal sanitation law. Well, in short, I think many things have already been said, very interesting things. Again – and I will not be saying this – thank the attitude, the whole, the accurate, rigorous work, with the absolute construction of the deputy Assumpta Escarp, of the deputy Eulàlia Reguant, of the deputy Àngels Martínez. I believe that with this common denominator, which means the positive attitude before universal and absolutely necessary and structural issues of the country..., I believe that with these positive attitudes I am convinced that we will make a strong, very combative country and, above all, with many social rights. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.59.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candini. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. [[Long break.]] First, we shall vote together on the reserved items of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, and then we shall vote on the text of the opinion. Okay? [[Pause.]] So let us now proceed to vote on items 1, 7, 9, 12, 13, 16, 18 and 29. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 11 votes to 97, with 25 abstentions. We shall then vote on the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The Health Care Universalization Bill was approved by 98 votes to 10, with 25 abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Proposal for a resolution on the mining of Bages]] [[250-01079/11]] The next item is the debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the mining of the Bages. In accordance with Rule 165 of the Rules of Procedure, the parliamentary groups which sign this initiative may intervene to present the motion for a resolution. In this case, the motion for a resolution has been submitted for the parliamentary groups of Junts per el Si, Ciutadans, Socialist, Catalunya Yes it is Pot and the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. We will therefore proceed to the turn of intervention of these formations. And in the first place, has the word Mr. Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.60.0	Well, thank you, President. Mr Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would also like to convey a special greeting to the ICL workers and members of the company committees who are with us today. Ladies and gentlemen, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group is going to support the motion for a resolution because it is a priority for our party to guarantee the jobs that the closure of the Sallent mine would compromise. We will also do so because for Citizens it is also a priority to put an end to the constant and inexorable deindustrialization suffered by Central Catalonia as a whole and the region of El Bages in particular, a deindustrialization that would accelerate and could become irreversible if the closure of the Sallent mine occurs. The region of El Bages continues to lose weight in the Catalan economy as a result of the constant decrease in the weight of the industry in our region. We must not be surprised – we must not be surprised – that Bages suffers a rate of unemployment above the average in Catalonia and a GDP per capita of 12_percent less than the average in Catalonia. Well, in that context it is where next June 30th ends the deadline for the company – the company – ICL to have given orderly transfer to the activity from Sallent to Suria. It is clear that this transfer will not have taken place at that time, and that is why we are here to adopt, as a matter of urgency, a motion for a resolution on mining in El Bages that will prevent the closure of the mine. We want to avoid, Members of Parliament, that more than five hundred workers, between themselves and subcontractors, lose their jobs, and that more than two thousand are affected if we take into account the impact on indirect and induced jobs. It would be a drama, a drama for the workers and their families, which naturally we cannot allow and we must do everything in our power to avoid. We have no doubt that much is the responsibility of the company, but it is not the time to blame, but to look to the future, to look to the future and take advantage of the change of direction of the company and the commitment of the company to solve the historical problems and give way to salt and restore the deposits, eh? , returning to the mountain and..., decreasing in the mountain of El Cogulló. The closure of the Sallent mine, in addition to the social costs already mentioned, would reduce production and increase the weight of fixed costs, and would mean losing certain world markets that would be complicated to recover them again. The disorderly closure of the Sallent mine, in addition to all that, in the background would put into question, would put at risk an industrial project that, if it were to be completed, would be one of the most important in southern Europe. In short, Citizens will support this proposal because it has as its fundamental objective the continuity of the activity of the mining basin in the Bages and the maintenance of the jobs that depend on it, and all this – and this is also very important – complying with the current environmental regulations. It also has our support because it will require and monitor the ICL company to carry out all the necessary situations to ensure the preservation and restoration of the environment, ensuring the continuity and expansion of the mining activity of El Bages. I will finish my intervention in a positive and hopeful way: if we all comply and enforce what is to be approved in this proposal, we will not only keep jobs at risk, but by 2021 the mining of El Bages will be a modern, sustainable, zero-waste and example of circular economics. We'll avoid bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. In a very important part it is in our hands to preserve all this. We're gonna get it. Thank you very much, Madam President, Counsellor and Members, and ICL workers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.61.0	Thank you, Mr. Spiny. Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.62.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs... The Socialist Parliamentary Group has defended and defended that we must be able to make compatible industrial activity and the compliment of environmental regulations. Working in favour of the green economy and the circular economy will be the new paradigms of economic activity, I believe in Catalonia and the world. I have used the concept of "circular economy", because in the case we are talking about converting what is now a residue into a new product. It is the way to reduce to its elimination the current salt runs that provoke us to the territories, and to the length not only of the Bages and the Bergedà, but also to the length of the Llobregat, some environmental problems. We are therefore aware that we are faced with a problem also in the form of a compliment of a judicial judgment. We also know that the industrial project presented for Iberpotash, which guarantees the continuity of the mining activity of the Bages and also the restoration of the environment, has had incidents in its execution phase that have delayed the development of the works. We believe, and we have manifested this in the last few months, that we can guarantee work places, direct work places, and indirect work places. My group, and that is why we support this motion for a resolution, is in favour, I repeat, of adopting those measures that allow for the temporary, transitory and limited takeover of the material outside the Cogulló deposit within the current limits. We are not, however, in favour of changing the restoration calendars of runams that were granted throughout the industrial plan that had been presented, nor of delaying the inn in the margin of the plants of transformation of the residue into an actiu. In another way: we would agree on this transition without affecting the final outcome, the final timetable, which is what I believe is clearly backwards in this motion for a resolution which is presented today in Parliament's plenary. We also have to say: knowing that we have this problem, the government has gone too far in profile these weeks. Counselor, I asked him if he had a card, he told me no. Well, we're where we are. I don't think it's just a statement from this chamber that's needed, but the company is, and I think it's done, and the government is done, as I think it's done at the end. Because we have a problem that can affect the economy of Bages and Bergedà, and, as a matter of fact, thousands of families living in this territory. So, we think that since the zero minute the government should have been more diligent; the business too, huh? With this proposal we are of the opinion that we are putting two rights to the Government: on the one hand, to make possible the continuity of the industrial activity of the mining; the conversion, also, to Sallent and Cardona, and, finally, to guarantee the preservation of the natural environment activating the restoration projects. Thank you, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.63.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. The word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group, goes on to say "Pot".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.64.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, deputies, deputies. And to greet especially the representation of the workers, the trade union representatives and also especially the companies of the territory: the Albert Marañón, regional councillor and director of Sant Joan de Vilatorrada, and Jorge Aguilera, registrar of Balsareny, because all this would not be possible without the complicity and joint work that we make from here the parliamentary group with the territory. Well, we're ahead of a tough country problem, not the only one – I, of course, how I come, too, from the Lands of the Hebrews, whenever I think of the Bages I also think of Ercros, right? – that it is an environmental problem, a labor problem, an economic one, and that somehow it has been the fruit of all the practical evils of this predatory capitalism over the territory, that it has always been a capitalism that has privatized the benefits, socialized the lost and always left us environmental passes, it is also true, in a environment, in a context in which, therefore, some years ago the environmental questions were not like now. Well, a company that has not completed its commitments – a company that has not completed its commitments – and a company that has now, in some ways, seen pressured..., that it had a plan, the Pla Phoenix, that it is true that it is making a very important investment in the territory, but that it could also have notified us before – could have notified us before –, to the Government, could have notified before it did not reach – that it did not reach – at the end. Of course, there has been a change of direction between us, it seems that there is a willingness to be more transparent, but they could have warned before the construction of this famous ramp... there were some technical problems that prevented the agreement from being reached in time. Therefore, a company that has not in any way completed a government that has also, in many years, and in these last years, not been sufficiently proactive or sufficiently demanding with this company. And now we find that we have to solve this problem, because on June 30th, so, we have here the passage of Damocles and, therefore, we have to arrive... The perfect solution does not exist; well, here, of course, we would always like everyone who was perfect: that you do not stay the environmental pass, keep all the places of work, that you disappear the mountain. But, of course, what's perfect is the enemy of what's good, and therefore, among all, responsibly – at least everyone we ever want to rule again – we have to find a solution. And I think that the line he is proposing today is a good transitory solution with the well-being that he also lays down. It gives due cause to the business, but it also gives due cause to the government, in this case you or the government that may be there, because it is more demanding with the compliment of these environmental measures, because it takes advantage of... As we have, counselor Rull, pending the final approval of the urban director, therefore, that in this urban director we follow more demanding with the restoration measures, for example, or, since we also have pending the collector's theme, the tram that goes from Bages to Abrera, because the other tram is already, therefore, that this is also speeding up because this is also one of the questions that can minimize... So, we're in front of a conflict, say, that we have to find the solution to keep the jobs, because they're the jobs and it's the life of this region. And I think the resolution went further because we have incorporated points that I think are interesting, for example, in the sense of governance, transparency and co-responsibility of all agents; for example, the point of recovering the mining forum, where everyone is represented, or the issue of the follow-up committee with the assembly to be able to see this compliment of the plan and schedule. That's why we're going to support it, because, in addition, all the items that the Catalonian Group does have. We'll give it support, and we'll be loving that all this is complacent because it can be done, like Jordi said, right? , the continuity of mining activity, of working places with environmental requirements, which, moreover, we must go mentalizing that each time they will be more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.65.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Grau. The words of María José García Cuevas, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, to fix her position, and she would also have to defend the emena presented for her parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.66.0	Thank you, President. Counsellors, ladies and gentlemen... First of all, also welcome to Parliament the workers of the mining industry in El Bages who are accompanying us today. Well, most of the economic activity in the region of El Bages is linked to the exploitation of potassium salts found underground, and is a strategic product due to its scarcity and applications. The mineral betas of the subsoil of El Bages are formed by a mixture of potassium chloride and sodium chloride, in a proportion of one to three or four, so that, in order to obtain this strategic compound, important amounts of sodium chloride are necessarily generated, which, mixed with other residues, have historically been deposited in external landfills that have already become characteristic in the landscape of Suria, Sallent, Balsareny and Cardona ; landfills that present important environmental risks: salinization of aquifers, generation of polluting by-products, leaks in the pipeline, for example. And it is the duty of the Administration to prevent, avoid, minimize and correct these risks, but it is also the duty of the Administration to ensure a sustainable future for these mining operations, because a green economy that does not generate, that does not maintain associated jobs will not be sustainable in social or economic terms, will not serve the common good. To put at risk the mining activity of the Bages is to put at risk a thousand_seven hundred fixed and four_thousand indirect jobs, it is to put at risk the main economic and dynamizing activity of this region. Achieving the balance between these two axes is the challenge that we as a society face, and it is the challenge that the public authorities must solve on our behalf. And it must be said that the actions of the public authorities – the Generalitat and the municipalities of this area – have not been able to live up to. Traditionally, these municipalities have been lax and permissive with the application of the guidelines of the Generalitat, which has caused social alarm due to the environmental risks of the waste, and, in the end, the mobilization of citizen and environmental platforms already in general against the mining activity of El Bages. The challenge, the boldness of the public authorities, which we owe to us, is to make the mining operation compatible, which is indispensable for maintaining the jobs and the economy of El Bages, with the protection of the environment. And it is now, by judicial judgment, when the Administration is forced to correct years of accumulation of tons of waste, because for years it has remained alien, until unsustainable. We, from the People's Party of Catalonia, years ago, in November 2013, have already tabled a motion for a resolution to make mining more sustainable, so that the Generalitat will speed up the procedures – they will remember – of the Phoenix Plan for the exploitation of salt waste in different by-products. The company guaranteed the investment, but the Administration has let go of judicial proceedings without seeking an agreed and effective solution to the environmental problem. We also proposed in that proposal that the Administration encourage other alternative projects to reduce the volume and danger of waste, which there are, with more employment in activities of greater added value. And our proposal was approved. Here it is: in June 2014, Resolution 708/X, a democratic mandate of the Parliament of Catalonia that neither the Generalitat nor the municipalities attended with too much interest; in fact, they did not pay attention. Today, we are once again discussing this issue in Parliament through a joint initiative in support of the manifesto that several local entities promoted, that our party in the territory supported on 13 May and that what is intended is to unravel and speed up the satisfactory resolution to the situation in El Bages. And everything has its origin in the POUM de Sallent, which was approved in the 10th, without courage or boldness because the problems are neither faced nor resolved in delay; POUM that challenged the Association of Neighbors of Sant Antoni de Rampinya, with favorable court ruling in the 13th, against which the city council did not appeal. Finally, in execution of the judgment, the Commission de Urbanismo de la Cataluña Central, in October of the 14th, approved an agreement cancelling the possibility of expanding the landfills, limiting their height and setting a deadline for the transfer of activity and jobs; a deadline which the court did not ask, but which mayors like that of Suria wanted to compromise, and a deadline which reality has shown insufficient to transfer the mining activity to Suria with all guarantees. We want a sustainable mining activity, which properly uses and manages all the products and by-products generated, restoring the historic waste mountains. And this is a project that needs time and investment. The company has invested 390_million. Due to technical problems – you know, the Suria tunnel; by the way, bid with an excess cost to look at – you can't ensure until 2019 that production is stable in Suria with all jobs insured. We believe that we must be realistic, rigorous, and the priority is to maintain the occupation that depends on mining activity in a sustainable and environmentally friendly manner. In that we are from the People's Party of Catalonia and that we ask with determination, realism and boldness the Generalitat and the municipalities of El Bages, territory, that no country. Thank you very much, President, Councillors, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.67.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. They will then speak to Mrs. Adriana Delgado and Mr. David Bonvehí, of the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group; they will divide the time: two minutes and a half each.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.68.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, deputies, deputies. Greetings to all the political, social and economic agents of central Catalonia who are accompanying us today. Well, briefly, because we have to share time with David, this resolution has to be used to show support for mining activity in central Catalonia, for which he supposes of a strategic sector, of economic development and obviously of occupation. But it also has to be used to demand, because there has been a great deal of lack of demand at the length of the history of this activity; to the company above all, but also to the administrations, because they complete and make the regulations complete and make the restoration plans. And also to ensure control and follow-up by all affected parts of the agreements we make today to help get out of this atzucac. The company should have found a way out of this situation that we're finding ourselves in, and it hasn't been like that. And there have been proposals on the table and there has been a dialogue with this government, I would say the most compromise with this issue – that is to say, because they were responsible for each other. Now an effort is needed to overcome mistrust of a long history of failures and lack of demands, I repeat. The work of thousands of people is at stake – it has already been mentioned – but we are not talking only about a labour dispute: we are talking, as I said to the principle, about the recovery of the natural heritage, about the development of the Bages and other regions of central Catalonia, about sustainability, of economic and social value. So this is an opportunity to find alternatives to a question that places us beyond June 30th and the limitation of openings to the Cogulló, which does not only affect Sallent, it also affects Balsareny, it also affects Syria and also affects Cardona and part of its mining activity. So, yes, I repeat, all the support for mining activity and in an integral way. We are at the expense of employment, industry, respect for the environment, but demanding responsibilities and compliments of the agreements. Yes, the territory wants rich, it is obvious: rich business, rich industrial; but it wants to reverse, that this rich reverse in the territory. If there is a decision that allows the Cogulló to continue to be engaged for a limited period of time, such as this motion for a resolution, the rest of the agreement that must be reached because it benefits everyone, I repeat it: entrepreneurs, workers and territories, from transparency, rigour and dialogue for the sake of all affected areas and for the sake of the country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.69.0	Thank you, Mrs. Delgado. Deputy David Bonvehi will continue to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.70.0	Good morning, deputies, deputies. Counsellor Rull, Counsellor Baiget, Counsellor Bassa, thank you for being here at the debate. I would like to begin with the words of Adriana Delgado, who preceded me as the companion of Junts per el Si, who we also support, therefore, this motion for a resolution; a motion for a resolution that we see as a country proposal. And it's because of this feeling that I believe, and it's up to us, that it's necessary to give thanks to all the agents who participated. I would like to begin with the company, which does not accompany us here today, but which has collaborated with us; there have been collaborations between the workers, their representatives who are accompanying us today and whom we very much appreciate their work. Also, in the case of ProMineria, which today accompanies us in this plenary, which are all those auxiliary companies that somehow also work in the mining sector to our comarques. And especially the work done by the Government of the Generality and the affected assemblies; the Government of the Generality, which, through its departments, its different departments, has always set out to work alongside finding solutions for the continuity of mining. It is also an important day for us, that this Parliament, therefore, is making it a problem that we have suffered since Central Catalonia. And, therefore, we are very pleased that today the Parliament is set for the future and for the future of our communities: the future of the workplaces, of the workers; the future of the investments to be made by the undertaking both in Syria, Sallent, as in the other municipalities; the future because it is respect for the environmental legislation and it is respect for the judicial judgments, in this sense we hope that in the march of the ongoing judicial procedure we will find the solutions used to make this temporary opening; the future because our environment..., and because it is restored to this environment; the future for the mining industry and all the auxiliary industries, and above all a look at the future of territorial rebalancing and territorial cohesion. Bages and central Catalonia need the mining industry and today Parliament recognizes us. I am sure that both the company, as the workers, as the economic agents, as the civil society is responsible for this mandate that the Parliament makes us today. And finally, it also seems to me that I am close to recognizing the task that has been done especially since the Assembly of Syria, that today no people are accompanying us, and also in particular the Assembly of Sallent and its mayor, David Saldoni, therefore, that these last few days is trying to find the best solutions for the continuity of mining activity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.71.0	Thank you, Mr. Bonvehi. Next, to fix his position, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.72.0	Well, good morning. Two previes in the first place. The first is to see the exceptionality of putting forward a motion for a resolution like this for the plenary. In fact, we suppose that there are very powerful reasons for the fact that the Ple is the one who knows the content of what will be approved today and the relevant committees are not. I suppose we're opening a precedent, that there will be other businesses, maybe, that they don't want to complete court sentences or other labor disputes, that they also want it to be, so, all the plenary that listens to their reasons, and I suppose we're going to have to accept it. The other would be that, obviously, five minutes didn't..., I don't have enough: I asked the Bureau if they could give me an hour to explain myself well and they said no, that it didn't correspond logically. With the workers we have had the opportunity to speak a little more and, therefore, we have been able to extend what our position is, but now we must do it in a very synthesized way, almost by launching caps, and it tastes hard, because mining at Bages is a lot of things. The mining at Bages, and we talked about it with the workers, they're work places, they're work conditions, they're injured, they're dead, they're aquifers, they're laughter, they're barrels, they're vague, they're police charges, they're families, they're river banks, they're salt banks, it's vein movement, it's also Prou Sal's people, it's businesses, its benefits, ICL's program, "Apadrina a soldier from Israel." The mining at Bages is a lot, and I know that obviously in five minutes we will not be able to tackle everything, and I also know that the motion for a resolution deals with a very specific issue. But we would have preferred to explain to ourselves with the complexity that we believe the theme has and that who knows about it, because it was up to him to manage it, or who works in the day to day knows it perfectly. These five minutes, therefore, are not enough, I insist, but some things have been said that are not accurate. We are ruling on a court ruling, a firm court ruling, which marks a term – it was said: on June 30th – to stop making attacks on the runam del Cogulló. And you can say to me: "Clearly, the term goes down and, therefore, we are in a hurry. But what's going on in Bages County today? Is it that I'm familiar with a sentence that was handed down almost four years ago? Is it today and now that we find that there is a series of legal disputes – it is not the only one, we have the list – of a complaint lodged in 2008 against the Councillor of Initiative for Catalonia and the authorities that he did at that time? Clearly, as we already know what's going on, and in fact, the workers came to explain it to us at a meeting on February 22nd – not all parliamentary groups attended, of course – already at that time we expressed our willingness to meet with the company. We didn't find the company's answer. Finally, they sent us a letter and told us that they would find the right time, and the right time has not arrived. Anyway, the problem, I insist, goes from the moon. And he also went ahead of the recognition of the oblivionist venial movement that, despite the pressures and threats, he understood that the territory is defense defending him, with facts, and not only with good words. The present initiative, too, has been said, is presented by ProMineria, for these companies, therefore, that also work for Iberpotash, and we went quickly, in their gestation and in the debate and vote. And we've decided not to do anything about it, and we've also explained before the workers why we didn't do it. Because this proposal pulls forward, and pulls forward with a vast majority of parliament; in fact, pulls forward with the support of all groups except the CUP. And, therefore, the question was not to get in the way, because, finally, the function that this resolution proposal has is to contribute to accompanying the government in the pact that will result from this execution incident that the company has presented. It's symbolic, if you want, it's a political symbolism, what we're doing today. And that's not enough for us. We ask and believe that it's more important that the chanting on the work places is over, that it's over playing with the families who eat thanks to the work of the mine, because it's indecent, it's irresponsible and it's inhuman. What are the workers who have to move so that the company can continue to feel viable? But if it's viable, but if it has 429 million benefits. But if you now show that you can stop drinking, at least in part, and you will still feel viable, why don't we ask you to stop drinking permanently and stop having so many benefits? Someone's got to do this. [[applause]] And so it's up to us to do it. So let the chanting on the workers be over. To do politics and to do politics responsibly is not to fall into chants, it is to denounce that he plays with places of work in a region that, as has been said, we have an index of time over the middle, and it is also to preserve the territory. And that's done with facts. I want to see you, all of you who are so worried about the Bages mining today, if you like, every week gathering us in this follow-up committee. This is not the sole responsibility of the Government, it is also the responsibility of the State, it is the responsibility of the assemblies, it is the responsibility of the veins and it is the responsibility of all. Don't leave them alone. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.73.0	Thank you, Mrs. Gabriel. Subsequently, according to Rule 165.2 of the Rules, the proposing parliamentary groups have only two minutes to indicate the text they hold for the vote and the documents they accept. Mr. Bonvehi, why ask me the word? [[Pause.]] Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.74.0	Yes, President, to position us. We would accept the technical issue, I understand, signed for all the proposed groups. And at least the Group of the European People's Party will not accept the slogan of the People's Party, which is trying to replace the word "country by territory".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.75.0	In any case, then, if the puzzle is not accepted by all groups, it seems to me that it cannot be accepted. We therefore put to the vote the text without this statement by the People's Parliamentary Group. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, call it a vote. [[Long break.]] Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.76.0	For allusions, president, and contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.77.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.78.0	I believe that all the groups that we have tabled and supported the proposal have had to feel alluded to by the words of the Member of the CUP, have we not? As we face the fact that we are supporting the workers but then we are not in the follow-up meetings, and that she will want to see us. Well, then, tell the CUP Member that, if they are fets, what the workers need, a very important fet is to vote today in favour of a motion for a resolution that makes it very clear: it is not in favour of the government, but in favour of its jobs and the mining activity of El Bages. First thing. Secondly, it is worth noting that the only group that is not supporting the workers today, supporting this motion for a resolution, is wearing the shirt that the workers wear. So, actually, Mrs. Gabriel, fets, huh? And don't talk, not image. Less politics of easy proclamation, huh? , and insulting others, and more politics of sensible and reasonable facts in favor of people. [[Greetings.]] Thank you, President. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.79.0	Let us now vote on the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution on mining in Bages was adopted by 124 votes to 10, with no abstentions. [[Perlongats applause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the book and creators]] [[302-00154/11]] The dotze point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the book and the creators, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose it has the word Ms Gemma Lienas. [[Widow's remorse.]] And they already know that, as always, they ask them, please, to leave in a hurry and in silence because we have to continue with the session. [[Long break.]] Mrs. Lienas, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.80.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, writers and writers who accompanied us, good morning. I don't know if anyone of you read an article that appeared in the Diary El País about the death of Juan Goytisolo. He began with these words: "Three years ago Juan Goytisolo almost had no means of subsistence, he could not pay for the studies of his daughters, who were his main reason for living. His forces failed to undertake a major work. This beginning already leaves clear the precariousness in which this writer, author of more than fifty intellectual works, lived, but the end of the chronicle was still more revealing of his poor. Something happens when the entire book chain – publishers, distributors, librarians and prescribers – can live on the book, but the weaker trunk, authors and authors cannot. He mentioned apart from the bookstores, which are also in a very uncertain situation. That's why our young lady doesn't just talk about promoting taste for reading. Our young man refers, above all, to the book, that we do not want it to disappear, and to the creators and creators, that we want them to be able to write and have a dignified life. One of our first demands is the development of a few days around the book where all sectors participate. We want creators and creators to be there too – often they are not there – who can feel their voice. From these days we do not expect any measures to be resolved or, as a minimum, to the exhaustion state in which they are found. We'd also heat up a draft of the book law. They think that we have a white book of the cultural industries of Catalonia that is of 2002, and since Madrid we have the Law 10/2007, of reading, of the book and of the libraries. So, two ancient documents that could be updated and, above all, one should look not only at the cultural industry and libraries, but also at the creators, creators and librarians. A part of our youth is focused on the children's and youth's book, because it is precisely with this kind of book that the reader starts. If children and children do not visit bookstores, if they do not understand books, great ones will not be consumers of books, and with much chance they will not be voracious readers either. While I was preparing for this intervention, I talked to a lot of booksellers and book prescribers, and everyone agreed that the good readers, the great readers collect books, that is, they have a personal library. That's why we think it's necessary to involve the families, as it is in other European countries, because they are aware that having books at home and reading with creatures is the best activity to increase reading competence and command reading pleasure. That's why we think we should also involve Teaching. The department should listen to the demands of Col·lectiu Pere Quart, who claims more presence of the literature bats, the same as he had a few years ago, and who commits the teaching of the various levels to exercise with courage his cultural function. I want to remind you that the study plans without history, without literature and without philosophy preceded the world described by Ray Bradbury in Fahrenheit 451. In this young man's life, many of them librarians, who disapprove that all students in one class read the same book, who reject the purchase of twenty-five books, all the same, for each class, and who hate the method of examining each literary book you read. We need the school to have the literary book of the school material disconnected, to promote reading as a pleasurable font, to promote the use of libraries and also to create the personal library of each student, and to need a teacher with established readers. Our young man does not only contemplate the children's and youthful book, but also those of adults, naturally: novels, poetry, theatre, season. For this reason, among other questions, we ask for help with creation, respect for intellectual property and the presence of the book in communication media. Finally, I'd like to explain why you need to read. The brain, our most important organ, counted a special type of neurons that activate when we see someone doing something. For example, we see that a person is size and we feel almost the size in our own saying. These neurons are called miraculous neurons and they are the ones that allow us to have empathy, put ourselves to the skin of others. These neurons are also activated when we imagine that someone is the size of the saying and, which is better, they are also activated when we read that someone is the size of a glove. Read means to hear the situations before which we may never find ourselves, and maybe we'll never find ourselves, and learn to hear the behaviors of the characters. Reading is living many more lives than one's own life, and while we have the characters at our head we are a little bit of them: I know Gemma Lienas, but I also know Anna Karènina, Madame Bovary, Maga, Mrs. Dalloway, Colometa. That's all you need to read. Can I live without reading? And of course, a lot of people do. It can also live without having known love or sex, but sad to die without having discovered these pleasures – all three, I mean. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.81.0	Thank you, Mrs. Lienas. Next, in order to defend the papers presented for the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms. Mireia Boya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.82.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. It was a feeling that at this point in time he was a librarian like a rival, who was mad at what he was, that I was an essential promotion center for this reading. And that's a lot to see from my creation. And we think that at a very great disenfranchisement of the public library by the parliamentary group that has presented this motion. We understand that this document is global and is intended to compensate the creators, the authors of the free, and we insist: it is libraries and this important part of my call. From the hotel, a free one involves many actors; and a very complex sector and we understand that it is necessary to have an integrated, global, systemic vision that is problematic. He is creators, he is, even more so, public centres, he is institutes, he is educational centres, he is librarians, he is editors, he is families, he wants to read a lot, he wants to read a little, he wants to read a little, he is families who can't pay a logger, he is families who are many. A free one involves a lot of people and we find that I am a reductionist shinau focusing on my own creation. In the course of the month, we thought that it was a sin of mercantilism in terms of favouring Community services, that it was no longer our company, and that it was also the father of entities managing copyright rights, such as Cedro, which we find to be private entities with a monopolistic position attributed to themselves and the father of mediators between the authors and the creators. We would seem very much interested in giving eth debate your eth copyright, eth copyleft or to have free access to œbras. And that's a lot of manners. They can talk about the working conditions of the creators, and they don't think they're talking about their work. They are two different strategies, and to us it seems very much interesting to talk about the working conditions that not to restrict was deprived of this creation. This is a full-fledged questioner's motion from the point of view of this class-cultural and anti-capitalist policy. And to the suspicions that they are little developed and that they have no fear. And that's what I pose for. And to measures that nullify lives that are fostered by families to reduce the cost of free schools. And we don't seem to be having such a social vision of this problem. And to measures that incorporate an acritic acceptance, such as did before, this intellectual property legislation. And measures that recognize structural socio-economic problems. If your family can't pay for a log, if it can't give, guarantee three times a day and you'll eat only his own and his own daughters, who's to think about what I can chew free? He was very critical of the fact that he spent a few months on campaigning and training, and thinking about who he was, it was the main cause of his family's failure to have a personal library. And to measures that are a neoliberal and corporatist air. I measures that encourage are individualized, partial and subjective subsidies. So we seem to be correct, and we don't think you're looking for a direction that you generate from free, you know, a project of your direction that you generate from libraries, you're not looking for a project that you're looking for from free. What do you want to say "regular" was sale of the second hand free? Aren't we in favour of deth recycling? And do we want to load are programs of reuse of free nauta-complexity schools? We didn't just get along. And, in any case, that's the best measures to create and create a good reading habit, and that would also be a good reading plan. And eth plan presented by eth Govèrn, eth plan 2020, we seem to have lost opportunity; he was based on economic interest, right? That is not directed to the families, to children, to the mansions grasping this habit of reading, and, in a month to month, to an alarming lack of knowledge will be the reality of what I am the ethic of libraries. It is a Councillor of Culture who stimulates a reading plan, which does not know any of the librarians seems to me unaccustomed. He has created a campaign which I have offended and which I have full of stereotypes, where you think that your library is still an old lady, but a monsoon, angry. It was a profession that was not content with counsel, and the critic thinks that he has a total disconnection of his own. In short, it is already over: to access now reading and tanben ua airina useful for national liberation. To be free in case of based on economic interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.83.0	Thank you, Miss Boya. The words of Mrs. Sonia Sierra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.84.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, writers and writers who are accompanying us today. "You've already recognised the cover with the title you're looking for. Following this visual sign you entered the establishment through the attape barrier of Books that you have not read, that you were looking at embroiled from posts and loans trying to intimidate you. Failing these assaults to arrive under the towers of the fortress, we fan resist the Books That From Time Have You Scheduled To Read, the Books That From Bad Years Searches Sense Find-They, the Books That You Can Apart To Read-Them Possible This Estiu, the Books That inspire You An Understated Curiosity, Frenzetic I Not Clearly Justifiable. This way it starts if a night of winter a traveler, a novel by Italo Calvino that deals precisely with the joy of reading. In order to enjoy reading we need good books, and in order to have good books we need creators, and this is what this movement is about: books and their creators. And, here's the surprise: this young man presents Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, which is formed by Podemos and Initiative for Catalonia Verds, and proposes measures to promote the protection of the rights to intellectual property that these same parties have voted against the Congress on different occasions. This young man proposed – and said he proposed because fortunately they had tried – to disadvise the socialization of books, while at the Congress they voted against it and justified this vote against it, according to his textual words, which they bet on a "procommunal philosophy". It is very expensive to hear how one can bet on a philosophy that is "procommune and at the same time be against the socialization of books. It is very expensive to hear how we can bet on a philosophy' procomune and not to vote for Ciutadans' proposal for free text books; certainly, a proposal that we have presented to all of Spain and that just today has been approved at the Madrid Assembly, with which from then on the children of Madrid will have free text books thanks to Ciutadans, while the Catalan pupils will not have this fate, but not for the "Spain we steal, only because the Catalan policies do not want the Catalan children to have free text books. On the other hand, this motion proposed "to promote respect for intellectual property as a value of the ideal of the centre, while at the Congress they voted against this – and I quote textually – saying: "One of the ways to resolve the conflict – for us the most reactionary and inefficient – is to bring the issue to the schools. That is to say, according to We can present today's proposal We can, what we will vote for, is "the most reactionary and the most ineffective. We believe that the culture of respect for the right to intellectual property must be fostered, and we think about it here and we think about Madrid too. And that's why we put forward a proposal not to read on this subject at the Congress. And what did we do? So, vote-hi– We can, Initiative for Catalunya Verds, all those who form the confluences– against arguments com ara – and I quote textually –: « We think there is another model and, moreover, history gives us the reason to show that there is another different model. We have a lot of examples, we don't know who designed the Enrollment Temple. We have no idea who wrote the thousand and one nights. There was no need for copyright for mankind to have access to the Bible, the Koran, or even to Greek mythology. And we could cite countless examples of intellectuals, artists and scientists, who voluntarily gave up their creations for the common good. So, while we can, initiative for Catalunya Verds, compromises and all confluences vote against and argue against copyright in Congress, we can propose here to go further... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, it's the party where you are and you've presented yourself under these acronyms– In common, it's Catalonia Greens Initiative, we can – and all of you will vote for it – say that your companies will vote for it. Well, so, here's where they propose to go further than that copyright and get the authors to pay for every time they're read. I suppose we can and can consider that coherence is overvalued, but it is that voting and arguing one thing in Madrid and proposing here, doubling the bet, this same proposal is, if not otherwise, curious. We are consistent and vote the same in Parliament and in Congress, because we defend the same in all of Spain. And we would generally vote in favour of it, but we would abstain from the points that we consider to be mass mercantilists. And to the lords and lords of Podemos, Podemos, Communs, Initiativa per Catalunya Verds, d'Izquierda Unita Alternativa, Equo, Mareas, Compromís and all confluencias I invite them to speak. You've been on the bus for so long, huh? I am talking about the proposals, because it is not possible to present a proposal to the Parliament of Catalonia, which in Madrid has said that it is ineffective and reactionary. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.85.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. The words of Mr Rafel Bruguera of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.86.0	Thank you, President. Parliamentarians and Members, and people who accompany us to the House... In other words, when we speak of a motion, of a long-term motion for a resolution, we use the expression 'llençol'. In this case, I believe that Mrs. Lienas has almost placed the whole bug on it. The motion actually raises a whole series of issues related to the book in general and to the profession of the author and the creator in particular. Some of these questions that are proposed are of foundations, model, strategic, and other are more concrete. That is to say, the young lady proposed in the first place a look from the long distance, but also close and close the focus to much more precise questions, almost surgical, very concrete. In this sense, we have read and studied the motion carefully. And I have to say that we have done it with a certain complicity: we share the concern that it conveys and the diagnosis made by Mrs Lienas. You're right when you say that with the promotion of reading there's not enough. Many municipalities in Catalonia, and not small ones, do not have a bookstore; often, not a cinema, for sure. And this objective and worrying fact I think we should ask ourselves, think about and start changing, changing or improving the policies around the book and the creator. I'm sure this young man doesn't figure it out, huh? – I'm not going to solve it all – but we are convinced that it does point in some direction that, if it's pulled forward, it would surely help in the right direction. The premise of the Department of Culture, and we say it every time we have occasion, is irritating, so as not to use a more pejorative adjective; it is not a waste, and less still in a country with its own language. The fact of being able to have more economic resources is a necessary condition, of course, but it is not the only one: it can also be uncertain in the diagnosis, and political will and courage to face different management models, innovative management models. And the young lady raises a few, which may be discussed, which may be considered more necessary than others or others who are not able to be first than those who are proposed, but in any case there is only political will, they do not require money. We, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, in order not to add more lençols to the buga, thought that the best we could do was to present two papers on two of the questions that for us are basic, phonenal and strategic. For a band, studying the possibility of having a law of the book seems good to us, but we think that we should also take advantage of the occasion to talk and to rethink, or to re-examine the library network of Catalonia, huh? The paper of the National Library of Catalonia seems to us to be a paper... the role it plays in the joint of the network is not resolved. We have the provincial libraries, which are built by the State, but managed by the Generality; we have many small municipalities with libraries in which there is no librarian, but there are library assistants; therefore, the role of the local libraries seems to us to be worth taking advantage of the occasion to rethink it. And secondly, the issue of the creator's status. We believe that the creator's state should be framed in a broader state, that it is the artist's state, that it is the one that recommends the Conca, and that is why we were to suggest to the Member that we not only speak of the creator's state, but also in general of the artist's state, that it is much wider, and between which, the creator's state, and obviously from the thirty-six proposals of the National Council of Culture and Arts. I sincerely believe that the young lady has improved much respect for the original, there have been many transactions. To thank Congresswoman Lienas who accepted our two and who we can deal with. I think he's getting better for the rest of us, too. And I announce that we will vote in favour of this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.87.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bruguera. The words of Mrs Àngels Ponsa, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.88.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Secretaries General of Culture and Director General of the ICEC, authors and authors who accompanied us... Before anything, I want to thank Gemma Lienas for the good attitude and joint work we have done in this young man. This is a movement of those who make you illusory to carry, and make you illusory for different reasons. We could focus it on two; one, in fact, is related to the proposer, to Gemma Lienas, because I actually knew her last term when she was part of the Authors in Perill of Extinction and I was a Culture Carrier, and we had a lot of meetings and I heard the logic and I tried... well, well, we tried to work together. The other reason is because I think there's been a lot of good work done by the government with the 2020 reading table. Through this plan, which occupies the four-year term of 2017-2020, some 105_million euros will be allocated to a dozen strategies which, in fact, have the objective of prestigating the reader and the reader's experience. There's a set of reading plate objects... which, as the counselor said on the day of the inquiry, is in the form of a book, and I invite you to give it a shot, because, frankly, it's a plaque that has consistency. There is a set of objects, as I said, which is worth putting in value. From the beginning, therefore, it is visible the figure of the reader; prestige reading as the main way of accessing knowledge; increase reading indexes and understanding reading in all age groups, with special attention to children and young people, and all this also linked to the Department of Education, which already has plans in this sense; recognize the authors, languages and Catalan literature in the territory and value intellectual property; strengthen and consolidate the book sector by improving the editorial offer in Catalan and Occitan languages; enhance the libraries and the library network of Catalonia with cultural centres and prescriptors of books and reading, and increase the presence of the book and reading in the media of communication, not only in information. These measures reflect a good part of the requests made by the motion, and are precisely incorporated into these lines of action that the Government has taken. In other words, the objectives that have been marked are to achieve complicity and the constant dialogue with the sector, with the whole value chain of the sector, which is genuinely concerned about social and economic dynamics which are often not conducive to consumption and the formation of literary intermediaries; also with the work of cooperating with the territory: with the assemblies, with the diputations, with the local world. So, too, as the young lady says, let us contemplate the celebration of some days of discussion where representatives of the creators intervene and also participate, in this case, the Department of Education. These days may result in the adoption of a code of good practices for the book sector, as well as the economic compensation formulas for the creators covered in the text of the motion. At these moments we believe that the existence of the plan and the creation of responsible bodies to vet for its compliment..., with this code of good practices that gave them and a status of the creator conveniently debated and granted to the sector. Another of the themes that the motion asks is the creation of the general direction of the book so that you join, so, all these policies to which we referred. Also..., and as previously referred to, advance from the creator's state, which arises from the recommendations made by the Conca, and take advantage to congratulate the Council of Culture and the Arts on the act they made yesterday of the release of the national prizes, to Rubí, and all the guards who came out of this contest. In fact, the Department of Education and the Department of Culture is co-ordinated on a regular basis in matters relating to libraries, both for what it does to the central units of both departments and for what it does to the educational centres and public libraries. The plan will surely require greater coordination. And by the end, in any case, as I have already said at the beginning, or as I have already said, we will vote in favour of it, because we have managed to deal with the whole assembly of the Member of Parliament, both with the Member of the Commission and with Mrs Lienas, as with the other Members, who we have been able to try, therefore, to reach a maximum consensus. In the point, as I said, number 9 of the motion, which refers to the creators and cultural enterprises, it is one of the most extensive endowments available to the Institute of Cultural Enterprises, it is a endowment of 78_millions and is therefore a very large percentage of the budget and must go up again a year. There is also a very important point to the reading plate, which refers to the young person, which is not only the continuity of the "6 years ago. Triage a book, which has achieved a considerable success, but that of the adolescent stage, which is « 16 years ago. It explains a book, which also has a very interesting procedure and which can affect this complex educational stage at times. Finally, let me summarize it a lot, because I could expand it further, but I see that I'm already running out of time, saying, this, that we support the movement, and therefore thank the collaboration that we have had. Many thanks, president, deputies and deputies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.89.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ponsa. The words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.90.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... I don't see the councilman, but I see Mr. Villòria, secretary general of culture, welcome. Thank you for introducing us to this young lady, Mrs Lienas, I recognize that she has awakened to me certain – certain – nostalgia. It offers us different ways of encouraging the purchase of books, of educating in the pleasure of reading and of helping the creators; not ‘help: it is fair to do, it would be to recognize their work and to recognize their property. And I can't agree more with these things. The world of the book is made up of editorials, illustrators, translators, librarians, distributors, printers, many more actors, but it is often oblivious that without the creators there are no books, and therefore I think it is not critical that you make a motion that you can make, huh? , the focus precisely on the creators. The world of the book is, for another band, a world that is soft between the realism that makes it possible and passed it on to the special one. It's this game between realism and the past that makes it talk, for example, of "editorial adventure, huh? Because if there is a business project that today is an adventure, it is precisely the editorial. In the same way, this young man has an origin, let's say, passionate. It will allow me..., the passage that Mrs. Links feel for the books has been verbalized or translated into these four fulls of the motion she recorded. And now, with the papers, the negotiation and the transactions, I think it has reached a point of balance with realism, that it will not only make this project, this young man, more viable, but that it will have a much wider consensus. We, the populars, had presented three papers, in this sense, from the same passage as proposed, but with the will of a major realism. For example, at the first point, when it was proposed a day on the state of the book that brings together all the actors in the sector, that seems very good to us... but of course, programming it at the end of a month seemed a little distressed to us, didn't it? , because events, let's say, serious and important, therefore, need more than one month, more than thirty days of planning and calling. It has been agreed that it is three months – we have proposed six months, but it is already good for us. From these days it would be good if you emerged a code, as you proposed, of good practices which, in some way, were not obliged, but that you committed all the actors and served us not only to encourage reading and buying books, two actions that were very united, because keeping books at home is key because boys and girls are aficionados to reading, but also to recognize the work and property, as before, of creators, and so on. In the sense of giving more realism to the passage of Mrs Lienas, we thought that it was also necessary to extend other terms, especially those involving changes or legal projects, eh? It is worth studying well the standard mark that would propel us. It also seems reasonable that a few points of the motion that we believe need a cost assessment have been negotiated. It is important that, after the negotiations, this young man carried out a clear political mandate, that he carried out reasonable terms and, man, that the resources are available. We generally welcome proposals for schools, for example. We don't like it when it's too much..., before they accused it of mercantilist; we don't like it when it's too much interventionist, and so we'll abstain at some point from the youth. We would find ourselves missing, for another band, some more reference to non-school libraries, which are precisely one of the most valued services for the citizenry, and which may require a special boost from the Department of Culture, because, if it is true that the council encourages the acquisition of books by families, these resources are a small part of what had already been done before the purchase of books by the Generality. There are other fears that we would find missing in this young man, for example on the promotion of reading in different languages, or as fighting against the digital brettxa, but as Mr Bruguera said, so it was already a long enough young man to go further. But we considered that the motion was sufficient, so we presented these three papers, only. In short, we, from the People's Party, would like to thank him for presenting these proposals. I have already told him that we will vote in favour of almost all the text. We will only abstain in three points that I believe do not affect the essence of the motion. And since I am twenty-second, Madam President, I will ask you to vote separately from these points, which will be the 1.c – that of Catalonia –, 10.e – of Spain – and 10.f – of France, and so on and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.91.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Milián. Then there's the word "Mrs. Gemma Lienas" to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.92.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Villòria, who I didn't say hello to before, good morning. I am happy, especially as the reader, that I could have brought to this Parliament a motion on the books and on the authors and the authors. And, of course, I'll feel happier even if we can approve it. And no one's gonna make me sick of happiness. [[the speaker laughs]] - No, no, no, I would especially like to thank the work that Mrs Ponsa has done, from Junts per el Si, because she has volunteered, imagination and great doses of conciliation in order to reach agreement. Especially satisfying, and also hard work, has been reaching consensus on all points affecting the Teaching Department. I will refer to the most conflict point – it has been for all groups, and to which someone is referring – that of poorly understood socialization. I'm not going to expand on what I've already explained to the Past Pleth – if you want, you can read it. I'll give you an example, though: if a school has 1,500_euros for the school library and uses them as it should, you can buy 150 books, or you can buy 150 different titles. If this school invests the 1,500_euros to buy the same title for each child according to the course, it will buy 25 equal books for the first, 25 for the second, 25 for the third, etc. I mean, he's finally gonna have to buy only six different titles. Or go on, a very bad reversal for the library in the center, and for the dwarfs as well. Someone will say it's because families don't have the resources to buy books; there's obviously no need to buy books, and that's why we asked for culture. But I also want to say that there are not necessarily the schools of these families that practice socialization – the misunderstanding – ; just to put some examples of schools that do: Thau, Avenç, Ramon Fuster, Eulàlia - Frederic Mistral, Garbí, Saint Paul's School, Abat Oliba, Escola Pia de Granollers. On the other hand, I could quote them from others who are very depressed barren schools that do buy books. I am glad that it seemed more acceptable to everyone to say that the schools should advise them to buy that they should not discourage socializing. I like it a lot more, but I would never have dared to put it this way. I want to remind you that we need Vaginal culture and education of the hand, we need the teacher to pass it through the books. Without this vehemently model, our children and children will not be adult readers. I also want to thank Congressman Bruguera, of the PSC, the papers, and the talks with Congressman Milián, with whom we do not share, perhaps, we pose by case, economic ideology but love for the book. And two very brief things: I regret that Congresswoman Boya and her group consider that the writers have less right to earn the life that, by chance, the miners of the Bages. I don't see it the same way. I won't take into account the other things he said; for example...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.93.0	Mrs. Lienas, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.94.0	...–yeah, I've already finished –, which has captivated me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.95.0	It should be over, not over.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.96.0	... – I ended up, I ended up – I don't know what he does to libraries. I don't think I had a good day today, the congresswoman. I'm not going to go in and evaluate anything that Congresswoman Sierra said, I'm just going to tell her to watch with her group, because her group gives up corrupts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.97.0	Thank you, Mrs. Lienas. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. Miss Boya, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.98.0	To ask for separate vote and for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.99.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.100.0	What do you want me to start with? For the separate vote?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.101.0	Whatever you're looking for.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.102.0	Vote separate from points 2, 3, 5.b, 10.f, 10.g. This is a bloc, these I can vote for together. And the other block...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.103.0	I don't know if they can vote together, because 10.f has also asked for it by the Popular Group. Come on, you don't.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.104.0	Okay. So, the second block for us would be: 1.c, 4, 5.a, 5.e, 5.h, 8.b, 9 and 10.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.105.0	I don't think this 1.c either: in this block I couldn't go either, because the People's Group also asked for it. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.106.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.107.0	And now the allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.108.0	I'd ask Mrs. Lienas that you don't consider whether I have a good day or I don't have a good day. In any case, respect more the library collection of this country. And in no case have we doubted the need to inject money into the world of creation; simply in what we disagree with is the friendship that this young man was trying to put on paper. We are more for a more universalized system of working conditions worthy of all this sector.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.109.0	To see, a separate vote was requested, first of all, from points 1.c, 10.e and 10.f. And then they can vote en bloc, for what it looks like, 2, 3, 5, and 10.g. And then you can also vote en bloc on 4, the 5th, the 5th, the 5th, the 5th, the 8th, the 9th and the 10th. So, let's do these. First we start with 1.c, 10.e, 10.f; then, the two blocks. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's start the vote. In the first place we vote on point 1.c. The vote begins. The 1.c_point was approved by 88 votes in favour, against and 44 abstentions. Then we'll vote on 10th. The vote begins. Point 10.e_was approved by 97 votes in favour, against and 35 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 10.f. The vote begins. Point 10.f_was approved by 88 votes to 9, with 35 abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 2, 3, 5.b and 10.g. The vote begins. Points were approved by 123 votes in favour, 9 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on points 4, 5a, 5e, 5.h, 8.b, 9 and 10b. The vote begins. Points were approved by 123 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Movement on the Book and the Creators has been approved by 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session to a quarter of four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.110.0	It's part of the session. Too late to all and so to all. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the strategy to boost the green economy]] [[302-00155/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on the strategy to boost the green economy presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.111.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, between the question that my group presented fifteen days ago and today, which we are talking about this young man, has passed a fact that we cannot deny: the President of the United States, Mr Trump, has decided to leave the Paris agreements on climate change. You're right, Mr. Trump? So, with a firm saying, we don't; we think it's a deep strategic error. Now more than ever the European Union, Catalonia, Spain must preserve, they must lead, they must fight against climate change. The green and circular economy is the axis that allows us to work on this line. Today as yesterday – 15 days ago, a long time ago – we are playing the planet's viability. The path is traced. It is or passes through a production system, into a different consumption system; a very low carbon economy. That's not a cost, from our point of view, huh? , it is an opportunity; an opportunity for the Catalan economy, an opportunity for the country's industry, an opportunity for the country's services, an opportunity to be more competitive, an opportunity to create more business and a more quality occupation than is being created at these times. Therefore, the feeling of the young man is clear that the green economy went beyond environmental policy, we said in the question that we made to Councillor Baiget, that today I see it is not there, but that we did to Councillor Baiget. When we talk about green economy we are not talking only about the environmental sector, we are talking about the industrial policy of the country, about the energy policy of the country. Counselor Baiget told us now, fifteen days ago, that "many things of which you say we are already doing to them. When it was time to put it in a single document, as we initially put it in the House, we saw that this is certainly not as much as Councillor Baiget said. In the end we have come to a compromise, already advanced, with the majority group of the chamber, so that the principles that inspired our proposal for a global strategic pact around the green economy are transferred to the different agreements, national pacts, which some are still in construction, eh? And, therefore, we plant what we give them, plus, have concrete, time-consuming, and evaluable objectives. And we hope that this is concrete in the National Energy Transition Pact, the Industrial Pact, etc. We will also make it clear in this motion that we approve of specific financing instruments for the impulse of this transition to a green and circular economy, because there is not enough with the words, there is not enough with the speeches. We must equip ourselves with financial instruments that vagine in the line of reaping the green economy, the circular economy, the ecodisseny, etc. And, therefore, this will be reflected in this young man. They're supposed to be in charge of the government. An economic transition that, in a sense of doubt, has to be sustained in an energy transition. Counselor Baiget told us the other day: "I have already laid the foundations of the National Pact for Energy Transition in Parliament. What we say to them is: "Look, the government is the one who has to lead this Energy Transition Pact that will then bring us to a new law. Today, Mr. James Hansen, awards the Frontiers of Knowledge, which already predicted the year 88 global warming, in an interview with La Vanguardia said that while fossil energy is the cheapest it will not be possible to solve the problem of climate change. We are of the opinion that we need to address this issue once and for all. And we proposed them and we proposed them – and we hope that they will be collected for most parliamentary groups – need to address and discuss an environmental tax law that is all-inclusive of the things that are going on. We think it's a phone book. Either the carbon rate is a little higher and we see how we then distribute these resources over the economy or we won't get out of it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.112.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Next, to defend the papers presented, for the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms. Mireia Boya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.113.0	Ben, good afternoon. Thank you, President. And thank you to Mr Terrades because he has now put in a debate that I need very much, so as not to say that I am essential at a time when e Govèrn dera Generalitat does not seem to take flowers for many reasons, that he is greatly aware of the environmental problems that we have, he does not dream in the present country, except at world level. We are talking about an energy transition plan, an air quality plan, a green and circular economic development plan, a residence plan, all these plans are about sustainability as soon as they don't just come into being, they're not just linking up, they're not just setting up concrete targets for how we're going to have an energy transition or how we're going to deal with future climates. In a word, we consider that it was taxed and necessary, because it was taxed incentive or disincentive and linked many of the objectives that still sound like soundings, good words; makeup measures that are not brave and otherwise are binding. And then to give an example: a year ago and my, and since it began, Mr. Terrades speaking of you, Mr. Trump, and of how the management of the Paris accords, a year ago and my that we are dealing with was Lei deth climate change, it was first you state, of country, now the new republic that I am calling Govèrn. A year and mine. We have a compromise for writing from the parliamentary group who, from the top of the Government, will have fiscal measures that will be binding, that will make clear the universal principles of "who contaminates, pays, that we are all in agreement. Aguest universal principles to be lagoons of aguesta Lei deth climate change. And it seems to be that he is grup that from supreme to th Govèrn and eth close Govèrn to intent to collect the agreed alert that he has written, insist, with us. And that's what I'm ashamed of. He was ashamed for two reasons: first, because he drank an agreement, and, second, because all the loss was credibility and all the awareness of the environment that, in all the plans, it is laws, it is measures, it is strategies that he will push. Pass this madeish with other measures, such as energy transition so long as it is spoken in today's motion, in energy efficiency, and eth Govèrn is not aware that they are late. In what tanh now air quality, 3,500 people died in Barcelona's metropolitan airau. We're talking about deaths. So many is a tax, and an imposs; but we speak of the dead; and he does not dream of the environment, nor of my hippy environment; we speak of the people's greetings, we speak of the dead. In a word, we thought that eth Govèrn thought that I was most important a lobby like eth Port of Barcelona, for example, that it was a situation and it was greeting of these people, 3,500, who died a year. They're an irresponsible government in the environment. And that's the result of all of us's salvation. Jo, it's bases deth Pacta nacionau pera transitione energémiento will get them already. Well, we've given him three months, and he's important; we're voting in favour of the alert. And then we can't vote in favour, because we haven't just seen them. In the handling of the press we will create environmental foundations: a climate age, which was intended to take measures of mitigation and fight against climate change; and a natural heritage age. We consider that I do not find any funds, unless I have enough funds, and that I have already specified what they can be used. At the end of the day, it should be pointed out that this is a business pedagogy. Next, there's no question about this government unless it's companies. It's so late in the day for you're Madeishes and it's just benefits. Therefore, insists, it was transition from a green economy to a economy of besonh, tanben, which is explained by enterprises that it does not question the competitiveness of men, that it does not question the benefits of men; it is the question of changes in the model of production, and in this and to an economic nexus here, of the market, that I am very important and that they can hear. We do not want and cannot wait for months, we do not want to be able to marish it as long as it was lost, we do not want and we cannot eternalize debates, and we do not want and cannot deny it as long as it was necessary to make courageous and binding decisions. It had been republican not sustained, it will be environmentally speaking, cheap copy deth lord and contaminating Spanish State. Please: a law on climate change, they are still brave and do not deceive people. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.114.0	Thank you, Miss Boya. The words "Mrs. María José García", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.115.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, promoting and establishing an environmentally friendly productive and economic model is not only desirable for the planet, it is essential to ensure the sustainability of the model itself. And we must all work together with this orderly transformation towards a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy. From the opposition of this Parliament, we must urge the Government to work in this direction, effectively, realistically, with a budget, with ambition and with responsibility. The constant on this issue has been the succession of national plans, country agreements, that mobilize many people and that meet a timetable but end in wet paper, because they do not start from the reality that it is, but from which some would like it to be. Technology does not marry well with politicization, nor with dogmatism, nor with prejudice. Technology is an objective and universal reality. And any approach, plan or agreement that has to do with the technique and that dispenses with this reality is doomed to failure. It's the same with legality. That's why putting in place national pacts for energy transition or for industry or for the green economy or moving away from technological reality – for example, putting in place inviable storages or ideal renewable productions without supporting power, not counting these costs – or apart from legal reality – for example, assuming objectives and competences of a state that is not Catalonia – is an approach doomed to failure. That's what recent history shows us. And that is why we would like the Government to focus, in order to make real progress, on doing well, with realism and budget, which is its responsibility. That is why we call for the removal of axis 7 of the Government's National Energy Transition Pact, because it is the first step to start talking about the rest with a bit of rigour and seriousness. To establish that Catalonia exercises full powers in the field of energy within the framework of the EU, which is what says that axis 7, to adopt laws regulating the electricity, nuclear energy or hydrocarbons sector; to propose that Catalonia set up a nuclear safety council or a Catalan electricity network, is no longer just to jump if the Constitution, because these areas are explicitly reserved to the State, is to jump if the Statute. It is an illegal, unfair, improper, irresponsible and partisan approach that invalidates and delegitimizes the plan and disallows the Government as a serious interlocutor. Nor can we forget two important issues which we have also proposed as amendments. First: our main challenge and our main commitment to society is job creation and we are in favour of promoting productive change towards environmental sustainability, but never neglecting economic growth and sustainability, which will guarantee more jobs of higher quality and for more people. The energy transition is an opportunity that must promote the competitiveness and sustainability of our productive fabric. We have made this amendment. And the second question: it is not the communities, the territories, but the states that assume and must lead and fulfil the environmental and energy transition objectives. In this sense, Spain has ahead of us, and we as Catalans in our part, an important challenge, as a result of the objectives set by the Paris agreement on climate change and also of the energy and climate package for 2020 and the EU framework on energy and climate for 2030. The implications are for the European Union as a whole and for 2030: reducing emissions by 40_per_cent compared to 90, increasing renewable energy consumption to 27_per_cent and achieving an energy saving of 27_per_cent. This will require promoting energy at competitive prices without financial imbalances, introducing new generation renewables with auctions, increasing thermal renewables in buildings, promoting efficiency in building, lighting and transport, interconnections, alternative fuels for transport. This is why the Government of Spain wants to adopt in this legislature a law of energy transition and state climate change that collects these objectives and establishes a clear and unique legal framework that provides coherence and coordination to the energy policies of the different state administrations. And since the Generalitat is one of these state administrations, we believe that it makes no sense to move forward in unilateral plans and programmes which, although developed with all the rigour, could end up not being applicable due to competition or regulatory hierarchy issues. We regret that none of this, neither employment, nor the regulatory hierarchy nor respect for legality matters to the PSC. He has not accepted any of our amendments, he has not even called us to compromise. Therefore, we will have doubts whether to vote in favour or abstain on some points because of the lack of confidence offered by the motion agreed with Junts pel Yes, without eliminating that G7. Finally, we reject the drafting of a law with more taxes. First, because the defence of the environment cannot be a collection alibi that degrades this noble end, and second, because we are more in favour of encouraging than of fines, and starting a model change talking about more taxes seems to us to be a very little encouraging start. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.116.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group, goes on to say "Pot".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.117.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies. We thank Mr. Terrades for presenting this young man because, really, that's the subject, isn't it? Like Naomi Klein's book says, huh? It's not the economy. So, the subject we have, the repte, the great repte is the climate change, as we approach and, therefore, as we approach because we can really continue living on this planet. Because, of course, when Mrs Cuevas says "the most important thing is to guarantee the workplaces, I say, of course, if we don't have first things, if we end up having some levels of contamination and if we end up not being able to live on this planet because of the scalfing, neither the workplace nor the girl who dances it, or if we can't live on this planet. We'll have a lot of trouble, and future generations, more. Therefore, I believe that the debate here is interesting, because it raises in the whole House a series of questions that, from the outset, in the speech we can all agree with that of the green, sustainable, circular economy, but when we scratch a little we have to see what we are talking about when we are talking about the green economy, and here is when we are all not so in agreement, because, of course, the green economy of truth... the concept implies a new economic model; a new economic model that is very contrary to what the capitalist model of unlimited growth has been, predator of resources, contaminator. That means changing the pattern. A model that, even though the business sector, still includes in some unions, even though we are working a lot, it is hard to accept it, it will mean decreasing. It will mean decreasing in some sectors, decreasing in one type of productive activity and growing in others. It will mean decreasing in those economic sectors that consume many finite natural resources, that deprecate the territory, that spend raw materials, that generate residues, that concentrate wealth in few hands, and grow in other economic and productive sectors that share more wealth, that do not deprecate, that possess people and common goods in the center of the economy, such as care for people, transport... It will mean changing the pattern of consumption, the pattern of consumption of the holding for the pattern of consumption of using it. Maybe we don't have a car, we don't have a renter, but it turns out we can use goods, we can have shared goods that we can all use. So it's a very quiet debate. And in the centre of all this debate there is a key element, which is the element of the energy model. This model needs..., and Mr. Terrades and Mrs. Mireia say so, because the three of us are already working on the climate change law, which is the energy model change. Energy must be the engine of change of this new social and economic model. An energy, a decarbonized energy model, based on renewable energies, that placed the consumer in the center, that is on the cost of demand and not only of the offer, etcetera. And, in this sense, we have presented..., we already thought we would vote for the motion, we liked it, but, well, we wanted to participate in this debate; we have presented ideas that we believe were improving the text, that we could, some of us, deal with them and, above all, put ideas in the sense of, whatever we want to do – in the line a little of what the Bride gave – we have to ask that it be linked, that in the indicator marks, that we can evaluate it; because, if not, many times we stay in the speech. They're centered on me, too, aren't they? I mean, where do we have to make the changes, where are the strategic points for, really, changing this model. So, for example, in the whole issue of energy generation. And here, Mrs Cuevas, I congratulate you very much on thinking of a new electricity law, to see if we can undo the fiasco that we did with the electric counter-reform, which does not allow self-consumption, that will make them pay a lot of skins to all the people who invested in renewables, I mean, I'm already celebrating, so good it is against the orbit of the European Union, because they are the only country that is stifling self-consumption. Therefore, on the subject of energy; on the subject of energy transport too, distributed networks, all that the industry is asking, to the chemical sector of Tarragona are becoming 'crazy, closed networks'; on the subject of industry, changing the industrial model which, it is true, are noxious; on the subject of transport and mobility–mobility–, plans of electrification; on the subject of public administration too, facilitating all these normal changes; on the subject of efficiency... Here we have a challenge, we have a whole housing park that we need to rebuild, and this is also an occupation for all the people of the construction sector that is difficult to occupy. So, I mean, there's a lot of work to do, but we all have to believe it, and we have to put the tools aside, to make plans, to be effective in all these issues. And on the subject of taxation, we will give support to it, as soon as the motion is put forward, because we believe that we cannot go into taxation and that we must look at environmental taxation globally. Because they're very difficult fears, and sometimes you want to charge, for example, with a tax and it may be that, if you don't do it right, you just charge the small business in the mixed sector, because the others are on the issue market. So, it's a very complex theme that I think we can review with time with a global package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.118.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. The words of Mr Ferran Civit, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.119.0	President, councillor, deputies, deputies... to Mr Terrades, first of all, thank him for the proposal he has put before us here today. I will only follow, in principle, a little that has already been commented on, because many of the transactions that we have made with the Socialist Group, with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the UPC, I think they have already argued perfectly in the line that we are on. We are in a situation where taxation, the economy, does not just have to go with standard comptability – the A, I'm not talking about the B, which have some parties, economic comptability – but there has to be a double comptability that involves the whole environmental and social issue. We have to start changing, because the economy doesn't have to be green because yes, but the whole economy has to be green. Because it is not just about social justice, about issues of impact, but also about efficiency, about innovation, about competitiveness, about our businesses, about our cooperatives, because without these, our cooperatives will not be competitive. And we'll lose more jobs. And one thing more to take into account: today we found ourselves in a disjunctive, I would say that all parliamentary groups, when we talked about the mining of the Bages. The jobs must be preserved, but we also know that the economic ways of doing business must be in another way, and that is something we must start working on. This is why we support the vast majority of points except for points 4 and 6, for a very simple reason. U, because point 6 we didn't get there in time to deal with it, but let's move to the climate change law with an additional arrangement. And to point 4, for the theme of the fonds. The Grau company has commented. I totally agree, and it seems to me that we will all share it here, that we have to make a straight line of everything, we have to calmly, we have to do it, we have to look at what we are doing badly and we have to look at where the new trends in taxation and economic productivity are going, because, if not, we can take all the folds badly, because we will not solve the problems we want to face or even so, because they will certainly come out harmed people, certainly businesses, certainly cooperatives that would not be close to them. But it's a debate that we need to do calmly, calmly, seriously, and decide whether we're doing with a fund, with two funds, or simply with a single box, because, as you know, Mr Terrades, like you're the director of Hisenda at Granollers' meeting, so, at the time of managing it – now that the Vice President of Economics has arrived – it's always easier to have a box than four or five, even though it's a final one that when it comes up you'll do what you play, right? With the different canons we've created. I think we're in the right line, it's clear that all that's going on these past years and these past decades of autonomous policy that we've been implementing the concept of equality in all spheres, or else, trying to be neutral in general, that the issue of whether you have a genera or another and cause a bias; the issue of sustainability, or still, neutral in impact, in negative impacts and externalities; we have to get to this model, we have to get to this situation. Equality, sustainability must be the pillars of the new economic policy, the pillars of the product model of this country; that all that we are going to talk about here about the concept of green economy, which someone will say, therefore, « brava economy, according to Gunter Pauli ; that someone will say « prosperity without growth, of Tim Jackson, which someone will say « decline, which someone will say, therefore, « the economy of the common good, like Christian Felber. All these are concepts that can change names. The circular economy, according to the European guidelines. It's the same, let's just say, what we have to go to is this new paradigm. And this paradigm, therefore, simply serves for some model how it has served the world of cooperation; in the world of cooperation there is a concept of not harming, or not harming, that all that we generate rich, that all that we create social justice, but that does not generate some externalities that then end up harming other sectors and other people and that after that we have to arrange. And that's what I'm saying, since Mrs. Caves, so, she's got a series of issues and that Mrs. Grau... that seems like we're talking a lot about these issues. So, of course, we hope that the Spanish State, now that it has the intention to make a climate change law and all folded, starts, and that it does as ambitiously as possible, and that if it exceeds the model that we make here with the climate change law of Catalonia, fantastically, we will applaud them with the ears, with the little ones and with the knees, if it suits, everything, because we want it for everyone, the best. But, of course, if we don't change the electrical system, which tends to oligopolies, which gives high priority to nuclear power; the centralized model, which gives priority to combined cycle power plants, and we don't end up with things like self-consumption, because, for example, from here, a lot of people won't know what it is, that's what the land is, that's what prevents a solar photovoltaic energy producer from going into the grid. The opposite of any European directive, the opposite of normality, the opposite of democracy. This is what we here in Catalonia, through the department, this is what we want to change. Now we don't have the skills, but when we change it, that's where it's going to go to the dumpster. Don't pateixin. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.120.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Civit. Then, to fix his position, has the words of Mr Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.121.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about the green economy, we talk about the sustainable economy, the circular economy, that is, an efficient economy in the use of resources, which reuses and reuses as much as possible and generates the minimum amount of waste, with the resulting lesser impact on the environment. In short, we are talking about a green economy, where the criteria of savings and efficiency are fundamental. And for Citizens this is the economy of the future; the countries that adapt their economy to this new model of production and consumption will eventually gain in competitiveness and employment. I am so convinced of this that I think that the exit of the United States from the Paris Climate Change Agreement which will be harmed most in the medium and long term will be the United States itself, whose economy will lose competitiveness and jobs. The green economy covers all sectors of the economy, such as industry, construction, and requires constant changes based on research and innovation. But it is also true that energy policy and sustainable mobility are, today, two of its main pillars. For citizens, energy is a strategic priority; firstly, because of its importance for economic development, being indispensable for economic growth, competitiveness and, consequently, for employment; secondly, because of its impact on households, families and people's transport; thirdly, because of its impact on the fight against climate change, and fourthly because of its influence on other sectoral policies, such as agriculture, land management, housing, etc.. It is therefore clear that it is a priority for Citizens to establish a new energy model, to achieve a low-carbon economy and to establish an energy policy that, on the one hand, reduces our dependence on the outside; on the other, to contribute to the change in the productive model, and, thirdly, to bet on the maximum use of natural resources through renewable energies. Wind and solar photovoltaic technologies can and must be completed with a much wider energy mix, huh? , and where naturally – and within the renewable energy chapter – it is also important that hydraulics, biomass, thermosolars, geothermals have an increasing presence, which are systems that have made significant technological progress in recent years and are now a reality at increasingly competitive prices. From our parliamentary group, we will support much of the motion put forward by the Socialist Group and the compromise amendments, because, approximately, we could say that 80_per_cent share the priorities and axes of the energy and green economy policy that we have in Citizens. The motion, the virtually unanimous consensus of this Parliament for a gradual transition to a new energy model based on renewable energy, self-supply, savings and efficiency, as well as a decentralized production model. Citizens' determined commitment to a model that encourages energy efficiency, developing energy-efficient techniques, products and services, is reflected in this motion, where it is also asked, eh? , precisely the updating within three months of the different plans of measures to control..., to establish energy efficiency and in turn to establish a timetable for the implementation of these measures. It seems to me to be a step forward, and we will support this specific request in a specific way. We also share the need to promote the rehabilitation of buildings with energy and environmental efficiency criteria. And finally, I wanted to reflect: it is clear that the investments that the economy of Catalonia and the rest of Spain will have to make in the coming years, from 2017 to about 2050, to achieve this desired decarbonisation will range from about 330,000_million_euros to 385,000. It is clear that it is therefore essential that economic resources be allocated for this purpose, and in this sense we share the idea of lines established by the ICF. We shall abstain on point 6, because we understand that environmental taxes have a purpose that is not exactly collection. And here we are having examples that many times that purpose is pursued and not precisely that of rewarding or correcting some externalities..., sorry, rewarding consumers committed to the environment...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.122.0	Mr. Spiny, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.123.0	I'm done – I'm done – Madam President. We are also going to abstain on point 3, because we believe that little can be built from consensus when it is established that in the National Pact for the Energy Transition..., it is also established on the basis, in turn, of a sovereign and independent Catalonia. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.124.0	Thank you, Mr. Spiny. Then, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.125.0	Energy transition, climate change..., according to which the policies that are being pursued in Catalonia must be coordinated with the rest of the European Union and with the rest of Spain; but Mrs. García Cuevas – and therefore we have not been able to accept her views – was an act of faith, an act of faith on a futureable of a law that we do not have nor forethought, the energy transition law and climate change of the Government of Spain. Mr Ferran Civit, I do not understand, we do not understand why the Vice President, Mr Junqueras, does not want to address an open, clear, transparent, participatory debate on an environmental tax law. Environmental taxation that does not mean pushing taxes; it means thinking about seeing in which way we have to encourage or burden incorrect attitudes. I would recommend that you tell Mr. Junqueras – that I've seen him here before, but not now – that..., look, there's an article in La Vanguard today that's perfect for this reflection; an article that's an interview with Mr. James Hansen – that I've already referred to... And, therefore, tell him that later this is a debate that needs to be addressed. I don't know if with the climate change law, I don't know what they'll end up proposing to us as an addition, huh? But this is a debate that needs to be addressed, and I have the feeling that the vice president is doing it to address this debate. That you don't do so much for him, because we have to approach him. And today we're missing an opportunity to give a warrant to the government in this sense, huh? Tax measures that will need to be taken with participation, with transparent debate with all the environmental, social and economic sectors of the country. And finally, Mr. Baiget, take the lead in closing an agreement as broad as possible on the basis of the National Energy Transition Pact. As at least my parliamentary group will have it at the time of this debate. But I can't leave it as a newsletter. Here, in his parliamentary office, someone has to lead this debate, and it has to be the government, it has to be the councillor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.126.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.127.0	To ask for a separate vote and for allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.128.0	Separate vote in five points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.129.0	Separate vote, please, on points 3 and 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.130.0	Yeah, okay. Thirty seconds, for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.131.0	Thank you, President. Well, we said before that we had to start with the reality that it was, and not the reality that some liked it to be. Look, Mrs Hortènsia Grau, I said that we are in favour of promoting productive change towards environmental sustainability, never neglecting economic growth and sustainability that will guarantee more jobs, more quality and more people. If we run out of jobs, I don't know if there'll be a lot of girls dancing to you. Second thing: self-consumption. Spanish regulation does not prohibit or prevent self-consumption; I have said it many times. Let's see if we stop indoctrinating people with lies. There's no sun tax. Say at least the toll in the sun. If you put up some plates and don't connect to the network, you don't pay anything; now, if you want, when there's no light, you can put on the washing machine or watch TV and you connect to the network, and the network and system have to have prepared power stations and maintained networks, that costs money, and it's kind of insurance that you would pay as a toll. Not imposed on the sun: toll on the sun. Finally, gentlemen of the PDECAT and Esquerra, you have representation in Congress; you may already be presenting legislative proposals for the law this energy transition and climate change. And don't confuse the normative hierarchy: you don't have to subordinate the state law to the autonomous law, it would be the autonomous law that was subordinate to the state law. Therefore, in order not to continue in the somiatruites plan in which you are on the subject of energy, we ask you to coordinate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.132.0	Mrs. García Cuevas, this is a speech, this isn't 30 seconds, is it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.133.0	...to coordinate with... Thank you – thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.134.0	Mr. Civit, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.135.0	Allusions, and also to ask for separate vote in points 4 and 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.136.0	Yeah, he's already on. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.137.0	Only by reference... to Mr Terrades, simply, that we have not been able to get to the deal for lack of time, as I have already verbalized; or so we will discuss it from the Department of Economy and, logically, from the Government. So, just what we're asking is that instead of presenting it to you, we'll introduce it to your own Climate Change Bill, and that's it. So... or so, the debate will be present. And, Mrs. Caves, we'll add all the trout and eat all the trout, not pateixi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.138.0	Okay. Mrs. Grau, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.139.0	I will certainly make all·lusions– thirty_seconds–, not a new reply, to tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.140.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.141.0	... to Mrs. García Cuevas who I do not demagogically do and who this from the sun tax..., what is preventing the Government of the State with its electric counter-reform is to do the « net balance, which is supposed to be – that she already knows what it is, doesn't need to explain it», and, therefore, is sticking to the development of renewables. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.142.0	Well, the vote has been called, Mr. Terrades, why do you ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.143.0	For allusions, Madam President. Very quickly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.144.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.145.0	I take the word to Mr Ferran Civit, and let's hope, then, with expectations, that this is what the government will end up proposing to us respecting environmental taxation. Let's hope the Vice-President of the Economy is more distressed than she was today.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.146.0	Thank you. Well, a separate vote has been asked... Mrs Boya, why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, you were missing, you were missing, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.147.0	I'm sorry, President, it's just that I don't... [[Rialles.]] For contradictions of Mr. Civit. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.148.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.149.0	Mr. Civic – and you know what I'm saying – it's not all Spain's fault. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] The Government of the Generalitat... [[The applause continues.]] That's why I started: "Look who's saying it. It's not all Spain's fault. Environmentally, the government of the generality could do much more, and it's a shame that I don't want to do it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.150.0	Voting has been requested... [[Ferran Civit and Martí ask to speak.]] Mr. Civit, last one, two seconds. It's got to be... Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.151.0	No, for allusions to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.152.0	God_seconds – he did. I'm counting on them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.153.0	Actually, it's not all Spain's fault, much of it is this country's fault. That's why we want to have the maximum responsibility, to start doing it right and stop looking for culprits outside. [[Strong remorse of voice and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.154.0	Separate vote from points 3, 4 and 6 was requested. We'll start by voting 3, 4 and 6, and then the rest of the vote. We're voting point number three. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Point 3, the vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 93 votes to 37. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 61 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been rejected by 26 votes in favour, 80 against and 26 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Green Economy Strategy was approved by 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Some applause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the planning and management of the airport of Barcelona - El Prat]] [[302-00159/11]] The fourteen points of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the planning and management of the airport of Barcelona - the Prat, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Mr. Joan Ramon Casals. And ask them, they know it as always, that they leave, please, in silence. [[Pause.]] Mr. Couples, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.155.0	All right, thank you very much, President. Well, the text that we are presenting today to the vote ends with the last question, where we have already made it very clear that what we have presented or asked the Government and the Councillor, who I thank, as always, that you are here, what you could do since..., and we have denounced above all what you had spent in the last few weeks at the Prat airport, for an absolute lack of forecasting by the Government of the State and the Delegation of the Government respect those minimum requirements, and minimum and machine resources to make it necessary that, as of April 7, which hinders in force some new rules of the Schengen Treaty respect the identification of persons in transit between the Schengen territory, therefore they have not been applied. And this caused heavy damage to many citizens, both from Catalonia and from the world, who were passing through the Prat airport, generating pain – as has already been explained and is known, unfortunately – by more than three hours, with all the damage that this has caused to these people, with loss of flight, anxiety, but above all – above all – also, so to speak, a very important loss of name at the Prat airport. Let's get out of here what we're presenting is a young man who's first to fail the absolute lack of forecast on the part of the Spanish State in this aspect. And we did..., and also profiting from asking the political groups to support the Government of the Spanish State, as they can explain this lack of forecast, when there was a very clear warning from the road council, therefore, also from the Government of Catalonia. But above all – above all – it was a warning that is known at the level of the European Union. Because, as it can be explained that there was no such thing as... that you did not pass what happened to the Prat airport in place of the Spanish State, except for a little bit in Mallorca, but, above all, it did not pass in place of the Schengen territory. The only place it happened that there were no material and human resources was at the Prat airport. What don't I know? And, on the other hand, did everyone else in the Schengen area do well? Home, it's clear that they can't attach it to the forecast gap. I'm saying because there's also a proposal from City that one of the things they're proposing is to analyze what happened and what should have been analyzed so that you don't come back to it and what went wrong. Dic, man! But if he didn't go anywhere else in the world, how can they explain what happened? Well, the second point is to demand... that this would be the least, it's to demand that from then on that doesn't happen. In these moments it is true that they have been put in place, resources have been improved and the correct entry and exit times are being given, which are between twenty and thirty minutes, but what we want, above all, is that it is guaranteed at times when we all know that they are of the greatest influx of passengers from the Prat airport, which is in the summer, which at these times we do not have the guarantee. The third point of the motion is very clear, that it speaks of calling a table now immediately to execute the transfer of the Prat airport; one thing that has been asked of this Parliament many times and what we will not do will be entered a more time as the model of the Prat management. This Parliament has asked that he be transferred to the Generalitat de Catalunya, where we would also have him participate in the Barcelona Assembly and other entities of the Catalan economic and civil society, as we have already shown, and we have always wanted to reiterate. And that what we are asking for is still the model that applies to the whole of the European Union. This petition for the absolute transfer of the Prat airport to the Government of Catalonia is not for a reason that we could say about the process or the monotheme or independence, that too, huh? , which is also why; but above all, because it is the only place where airports are not managed by the authorities of the territory, such as the great cities, metropolises or even all the lands, at German level; the only place where it does not work or the only place that is centralized is in the Spanish State. So what we're asking is no longer just a theme because we also want independence, but because it's how it works all the time, and where it works well. And the show that doesn't work well is what happened from April 7th at Prat Airport. And, besides, as in the fourth, because it's already an addition that was produced just the same day and it was known the same day that the inquiry was filed, it's also reporting a discrimination that doesn't just hurt Prat airport, but that affects all airports in the Spanish State, huh? , which is precisely the fact that the Spanish State signed international agreements – in this case, one with the Russian Federation – that what they do is that they forbid flights, say, over certain airspaces – in this case, over Transsiberia – that they do not come from Madrid. This is absolute discrimination and not just monotheme, a discrimination just because Catalans are rare, but it is affecting them absolutely throughout the territory of the Spanish State because it wants to protect an airport. They must have Prat airport or the rest of the Spanish state airport. And this is something that has been denounced in an absolute way and, in any case, it is what we are proposing very clearly in this case for the sake of the citizens and the travellers who want to use the Prat airport, but especially because we believe that it is the best to manage one of the best infrastructures in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.156.0	Thank you, Mr. Couples. Next, to defend the papers presented by the Catalonian Parliamentary Group Yes, it is Pot, has the word "Mrs. Grau", Hortènsia Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.157.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... well, today we have before us a motion that presents Together for the Yes, the group that gives support to the Government, that, well, it is timely, after all the shit that has happened these days at the Prat airport, and that is..., we will give support to it, at all points, but that we have to deal with it, that is said in castle, that, of course, it presents a motion in which everything that..., is the complaint against the Government of the State, but without imposing any self-requirement on the Government of the Generality, when we already know that you do not pass the competitions, but this airport is in Catalan territory, but that we have competitions in some things that you refer to the environment... and that you do not abandon it in this case, I do not think so. And it's in this sense that we've presented the reviews. I'm also warning you that we're pulling out, taking advantage of the fact that we're pulling out Emena 1 – because I've already been technically told, and so you haven't heard – we're pulling out Emena 1. But, for example, Emena 2, which we have not been able to reach agreement and compromise, therefore, it is very difficult for me that the Government does not want to participate in a technical working group that is on the soroll of the Barcelona airport, because it is a problem that in the end is affecting the citizenship of the people living near the airport – of the Prat de Llobregat, of Viladecans, of all. It's a working group that the General had been watching and three years ago stopped attending. And, of course, the explanation of "we don't go, because they don't care, because they give us everything as they have done, it doesn't serve me, because I think that if this happens, we have to..., it's to be legitimate to complain about the government of the State. But in the end, we can't leave our assemblies alone either. Because, listen, there are representatives of the Prat Joint to this work group, and the Viladecans. So the government of the Generalitat must also be at the side of these joints. Listen, and if you don't, if you go to the meeting and you don't get it, then you get a press release and report it, and see if you're carrying legitimacy! So it's hard for us to know that this has not been accepted. I also thank Congressman Joan Ramon Casals who has accepted the thought of this, of participating in the whole issue of the environmental monitoring committee, because there is also the government here. And, therefore, much as the competition is in Madrid, in the end the environmental effects of what happens to us compete with us. And in environmental matters the Government of the Generality also has powers, so it is important that it be involved in the follow-up committee. And I'll say the same thing again: and if you go to the follow-up committee and you have your Air Quality Plate, Government of Catalonia, and it turns out you can't make good those Air Quality Plate measures because they either don't listen to you or they don't want to complete them or whatever they are, complain, huh? , public complaint, but with better reason than a saint! And that's it, I think this point is important. And lastly, I also thank the Member for accepting item 4, which..., in which I ask the Government of the Generality to submit an assessment report on the compliment and the level of implementation of a whole series of questions. Because here we will also put into evidence whether the Government of the State is doing the dues or not, and also whether we... which part of the dues are doing us or not and which part is not doing the Government of the State. And here, of course, here are very important measures, because here are the measures that are in the Pla of better mobility of people and goods to access the airport of Prat. Let's remember that it's within this area of special protection of air quality. Therefore, it is very important, all the mobility that generates around the airport, as we manage, or all the environmental issue of the fleet of vehicles operating on the ground or the measures of the best operating on the ground. It is a question that ultimately affects us in our environmental quality plan, that affects us in the area of measures. Therefore, as much as we share and agree with all the points that are exposed to the motion and that we have defended and defend from the Barcelona Assembly, from the Prat Assembly, there we have responsibilities for government, too, apart from giving support, therefore, we are grateful that these issues that fall within the competence of the Government of our country have been incorporated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.158.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Grau. The words "Mr Sergi Saladié", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed, are followed by the words "Mr Sergi Saladié".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.159.0	All right. Thank you, President. Once we saw this..., well, the question that was asked will be fifteen days and we saw that the motion was registered – something that doesn't always get used to doing together for the Yes –, doubts are raised as to whether it is worth it or not to present a motion of this type, and, from our point of view, therefore, whether to give it support or not, because basically the State has long since resigned from its functions that it would have to have, if it were to be a good state or a normal state, say so. Why is she lazy, too, huh? You're asking, aren't you? I don't know how many times it must have been asked in this Parliament to compliment some questions that should be basic and daily and normal. And also basically because if we believe that we are at the door of the celebration of a referendum – as we defend and are already announced with date and question, then – if it is worth asking things in Madrid, because we can already do them, if we suppose, four days from now, right? So, you say... well, it's a series of doubts, I think it's reasonable, if we can, to give support to this young man. But, go on, I don't even think it's in the shape of this long... or longer or shorter, do I? For some, it's very long, for others not so long, this epilogue that we're building and we're writing with the State, right? With this relationship with the State, so we do seem to be in a position to support this young man. And, basically, to leave... - there, what do you consist of in the record, right? – to say..., we're going, huh? We're writing the epilogue, we're not going, but we'll leave all the incompetences of the State or all the useless ones to write, right? , and the unusability of this state for its lack of ability to compliment some absolutely basic and necessary questions. Denunciate and consist in record, in this epileg, also, the lack of forecast of the State at the time of donating basic services, as in the case, therefore, that it is erupting and is focused this motion, therefore, from the airport, the continuous leaving in other vital communications infrastructures. I will not tire of remembering... – and so I will say every day that, more or less, I am coming down –, of reminding the PP's lords and lords of the 3.516_million euros we owe to Rodalias, I mean they can already go preparing the note, because it is a question that I, at least, from here I will go every day remembering everything we give and the few lessons we can give here, and these systemic incompliments. Because, in the end, if it's not a question of futility – which is, we think it is, on the part of the Spanish government – it's a question..., or we think it could be, a question of premeditation, which is also. Here's a few tips that we'll also give support to as they are, so these boycotts, right? , that in a systematic way the Spanish Government is pushing internationally to block the normal development of a series, therefore, of infrastructures– in this case, the airports–, blocking these trans-Siberian flights, except if they only pass through Madrid, right? I, therefore, artificially increasing a demand in a place that, probably, would be much smaller, wouldn't it? And the people you are so much in favour of free trade and competitiveness and all these issues, so, and that we are always god, at the CUP, that we are interventionists, so, a better example of interventionism, against their own principles, is this, among other things, that today is pale with this young man. And, therefore, we seem interesting, so, as I said, that it is in the record, in this epileg, to make clear this denunciation of the premeditation of the..., we could say of the different governments, but especially of this last government of the People's Party, at the time of not completing its functions to our territories. And so, so, as I said, we'll also give support to the conjunction of this young man in his... in five great points or five great blocks, which could be grouped together. In the first place, that is the failure of the Spanish Government, especially its delegation to Catalonia, for this, say, lack of forecast in the concrete afer of the airport of Prat. Give support to the creation of a bilateral table to negotiate this transfer, which is a question we talked about, we were talking about. We have always claimed here that we do not have to go on asking for things in Madrid but that we have to establish political conditions in order to be able to negotiate from you to you a transfer, to the fame there must be. In any normal situation of separation of goods, therefore, there must be a negotiating table in which there will be some debts and some assets, and we must begin to prepare these must be given to us by the State. And, therefore, the most opportune thing we seemed to put it in a bilateral table key, didn't we? Do not ask that the State make a series of investments, do not ask that the State pass it to us only we call a table, as we do with the reference, who wants to come..., and if not, then it will not be counted, huh? As the finger says. And, therefore, we must go our way. To denounce, as I have already reiterated, this boycott, right? , that the Spanish State does us at international flight level, but also, while at the same time, with some small ideas that we have made, therefore, suggest that, in these few months remaining in the State, urge him to stop making the ridiculous. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.160.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.161.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, this is a young lady who sweeps a little everything, huh? Actually, we're already... we're not surprised either, we're used to the government or the support group doing it. It's not surprising the government of the state's improvisation levels in some of the services that are close to it and that they have to lend, is it? We have presented a statement, which has not been accepted, for which I know, I shall refer later. More like, let me just talk about it now. We are still defending an individualized management of the Prat airport so that we can compete with the rest of the airports. That's no surprise either. This is a position that our parliamentary group has maintained because we believe that individualized management introduces or can introduce better efficiency and management, for whose benefit? So, for the benefit of users, it is ultimately the ones who use the airport and all its facilities. Is it possible to do that? We think so. In fact, it is a debate about the model; not just the airport model but about how the multi-national reality of the Spanish State stands. Is it possible to do that? Well, yes. Look, this was... that all the passes had been made so that this was produced, that Barajas' management was individualized, that Prat's management was also individualized, there was a change of government and it went back to the classic model. But what's possible? Yeah, it goes to other countries in the European Union and it doesn't, huh? Therefore, we will continue to defend this model. Why? Why an individualized management, for example, could better resolve conflicts like batch 22, huh? , that we all know, that they are the airport restoration services, that there is a very important labor conflict – and we, look, take advantage of that proposal..., this motion to claim, from the Faristol of the Parliament, to AENA a solution to the conflict that guarantees all places of work, huh? –; an individualized management where the role of the Generality remains decisive at the time of taking decisions. And I believe to the Government of the State that it should be said that it is not a waste that has occurred these past weeks at the departures and entrances of passengers from flights coming from outside the Schengen area. I think they have a suspense like a carbassa, like they managed this crisis, that doesn't just give a bad image of Prat airport, it gives a bad image of the state conjunction, huh? because there are thousands and thousands of travellers every day for the Prat airport, and also thousands and thousands of travellers outside the Schengen area. It is the same improvisation that has occurred in the renewal of the DNI, the national identity document. The coles that are occurring these days in order to be able to renew... is also intolerable. I think they have to tell the government delegate, Mr. Millo, that he reacts quickly, that I protest to whom I must protest and that it has become more effective. At the airport it seems to be resolving; the NID's tails still aren't. We will not support it, therefore, in this position that you defend me from passing it all over and I will manage it now, because we have not just agreed as this debate is taking place. Nor will we support them in the proposal they make in accordance with the Spanish agreement with the Russian Federation, because I think this is a more complex debate. When the routing committee or when an airline asks for certain flights, I have the feeling, for the information we also have, that it is not so much a problem of the Spanish State as a problem of the authorities of the Russian Federation at the time of controlling flights passing through its airspace. Therefore, as this is a little more complex and not as binary as you are, we will not support it, nor oppose it and abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.162.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. Next is the word of Mrs Marina Bravo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.163.0	Thank you, President. I did not have time in his day or could not see the whole inquiry and I had to reread it, and, well, when I was going for the fifth repetition of the word‘boyot, and I mean it, when I was going for the fifth – I started to count the – so I was almost believing it, but then I read a sentence that said it, and today it has repeated it more or less: « The rest of the airports of the country have not had this problem, only two, that of Prat and that of Mallorca. And it shocked me, because I, who sometimes read something more than the Ara, had already seen queues and faintings in El Altet, for the lack of police to control the passports of the passengers; queues at the entrance of the airport of Malaga, for the new ordination of the area of travelers; queues under the sun to check passports in Manises... Look, trouble, yes, many. [[Some applause.]] We're not going to be the ones to say it was inevitable. Or we're not going to be the ones to say it wasn't a shame. It will not be us who defend the management that has been done by the Ministry of Development or the Ministry of the Interior, the lack of foresight; of course there has been. But please leave the path of victimistic discourse. And, if they are not able to put aside the "guilty" of Madrid because they already have it too internalized, please at least do not use lies or truths half or quarters to make assessments on anyone's intentions. Because I tell him, from his own experience, that it demoralizes people who work day by day so that, in Catalonia, as it would in the rest of Spain, things will work. That demoralizes a lot. Boycott, boycott, boycott... In his speech there were phrases such as « here at the end there is a willingness to clearly harm Catalonia, « someone is trying to make Barcelona airport less competitive, which has a lesser reputation. Those are phrases of his intervention. Well, then there's the subject of the convention. It is not so complex, the subject of the conventions, so that they cannot understand it; it is not so complex that the president of the Generalitat cannot inform himself well before he makes the ridicule on social networks so that they have to deny him from an airline, that I imagine the last thing I expected is that the president of an autonomous community said that they were vetoing a flight of his only because he did not have a bilateral agreement to allow it. Because that's what happens, there's no bilateral agreement that will allow it. But the truth is, it hasn't even been asked. I already explained to them how bilateral agreements between states worked the last time. I don't know if you saw him, and if you didn't, you can get the surgery back. I won't repeat it. But I will continue with the explanation and give some examples. In Europe there is no need for any additional bilateral agreement between states to be able to fly from one point to another, you can fly from any city to any city. With other countries outside the European Union, bilateral agreements must be established between one state and the other. With some, with whom there is a very good relationship, you can establish in those agreements that you can fly from any city to any city – we have them, there are them – but with others you can't reach those agreements, and agreements are made only when a company is willing to fly. And when that company is willing to fly, an agreement is made that sets out where it's going to fly, how many times, how many times will the company on one side, how many times will the company on the other, if it can be any company. All this is reflected in the conventions. I've brought you some, but, come on, they're on the web; you don't have to do any major research. The one from Peru collects Barcelona and Madrid; poor people from Mallorca, poor people from Valencia, what a boycott we are doing to them. There are others that only pick up Mallorca, and neither Barcelona nor Madrid. And I brought him the one from Russia too. The original, the one of 76, referred to in the famous document of the Ara, said that it could only be flown from Madrid; then it was asked to fly also from Barcelona and there was an enlargement in which Barcelona was put, and then it was a third enlargement, which is this one that is so critical, so that from Madrid it could fly over certain airspace. If you wanted to, if you asked from Barcelona, you could probably make one more enlargement. But you can't veto something you haven't asked for. In addition, the treatment they make of their influence on the airport is difficult. Because after criticizing so much that because of others we are fatal, there is a phrase in which it even says that the people who come see which third world country we are..., then it says, in the same speech: "We have made Barcelona airport one of the main in Europe. You have a problem, when you talk about Barcelona airport: you don't know if to say that it's going well, that it's going badly, that you manage it, that the Government of Spain manages it. They have a problem, really. But still, they want to be handed over. Of course that everything is transferred to the Generalitat of Catalonia is the resolution of all the problems of Catalans, of those we have and of those we do not have. Well, look, no, that's not the solution for everything, because you, for starters, don't manage everything well. And the motion that follows is proof of that. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.164.0	To fix his position, the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.165.0	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Counselor, Mr Bel, Members and Members, this young man has two cares, two visions: one, some objective facts, to which I will refer, and another, the independentist imagination, which is reflected in the inquiry and the motion. The objective facts, which we share, regret and celebrate that there has been a solution, the objective facts, are that we are at the level of four anti-terrorism alerts; that there has been a reform of the Schengen border code; that there have been major document checks in the entrances and exits and also in the internal movements between the Schengen territory; that also since the entry into force, on 7 April, from this new border code there has been a collapse in the documentation control of the Prat airport; that it is true, and we recognise it and, if I may, we criticise, that there has been a lack of forecast by the authorities in order to guarantee the flow in the control of the documentation at Prat airport. But it's also true, that it's also an objective fact, that today this is resolved. And even if Mr. Couples wants to question it, it's not just the problem that's solved already, today, but that the projection or the possible projection of this problem is solved for the summer season and, therefore, the increase in the activity of the Prat airport during the next few months, because all the necessary forecasts have already been made in order to be able to address this problem. But, from here, what we have heard – and here comes the independentist imagination and propaganda and publicity –: « Intentionality on the part of the Spanish State, « boycott of our infrastructure and boycott of our country, « someone is trying to make Barcelona airport less competitive and less well-known than Barajas, « here after there is a will to clearly damage Catalonia « this is a very clear boycott, etcetera. And under these arguments, expressed for the interviewer Mr. Couples or for the adviser Mr. Rull, they say: « Escort, transfer to the Generality the skills on the airport of Prat. Home, in one thing I have to give them the reason. At airports run by the Generalitat, for example, Alguaire, Cues, Cues..., don't worry, that's true – that's true. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] But, look, I don't think that's the solution. Home, think of other infrastructures where there have been and you don't care so much. Ah, five weeks ago on the Barcelona metro, there is a gap, and every day there are dangers and situations in the walkers; and the paths and caravans in the access lanes in Barcelona, precisely because there is a gap in the Barcelona metro. "No, not here..., that's not Spain's problem and so we don't stay here. Home, maybe it would be worth a little attention, too, should something have to say, no, counselor? Something you have to worry about is also happening on the Barcelona metro. But no, of course, that's not, because that, like it's up to us and we can't ask for it... so, man, it would also be worth it to stop it. So, you're calling on the delegation of the Government of Spain to fail for the sabotage that the government of the PP does to Catalan independence. I was unaware of the Spanish government delegation's capacity in Catalonia to sabotage independence. The airport of Barcelona, Palma de Mallorca, Malaga, Alacant, Jerez, Birmingham, Amsterdam, Dublin, London, and the airport of Barcelona, the airport of Palma de Mallorca, the airport of Malaga, the airport of Alacant, the airport of Jerez, the airport of Birmingham, the airport of Amsterdam, the airport of Dublin and the airport of London. Damn it! The Delegation of the Government of Spain does have the capacity to boycott independence, which paralyses the airports of Mig Europa! God-in-law! All this, of course, against Catalonia. Another example of the boycott. So, mirin, since 2011 that run these PP, which are so painful, the Barajas airport has gone from 49,6_million passengers to 50,4_millions – an increase of the 1,6_per_cent. They are so painful that the airport of Prat has dropped from 34.4 to 44.1; it is said, it has dropped an increment of 28_per_cent; style Orwell, 1984: the price of the chocolate has dropped from 7 to 9 – style Orwell, completely. And, finally, they ask to denounce the hard discrimination of the memorandum or agreement with Russia. Listen to me, it's a question of requesting permission from the countries on which the air space is flying to be able to circulate. But that's why it's okay for you to report it's okay for Barajas to get a week-long flight to Moscow, and, at Prat, fifty-seven. Listen to me, who benefits from suspending this arrangement? Barajas or Prat? Suspend 'lbeneficiary Barajas'. Is that what you want? Take it seriously! And the inquiry..., and the motion you present today has nothing serious, so you can't count on our support. And we'd be happy if we could take care of the neoliberal rampage of the CUP, and so the air space of the Russian Federation would be set free. We hope to count on your influence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.166.0	You've run out of time, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.167.0	...to achieve this. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.168.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Joan Ramon Casals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.169.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, to go fast, let's answer starting with the order. Catalonia Yes, it is Pot..., in any case we have accepted... – thanks for the environmental considerations here – those that we have not accepted not to go there is for a reason that we have already tried many times, no matter what, we will not insist on going there. In which we have accepted to go, which is the environment, we are going with little hope; but in any case, we will pass this report to the top of three months to see who does not really apply things to the Prat airport, which is who manages, unfortunately, that it is AENA and the Government Delegation. At the CUP..., especially many thanks, also to help us improve the proposal, and therefore also to enrich it. And well, and forward with, already, starting the transposition, that we expect it to be a reality; that is what we ask, because the Parliament has been asking it for a long time. At the PSC, I will be..., say, a while ago we would have agreed with the model and asked for it together too, but this Parliament has already asked many times for the immediate transfer of the Prat airport, such as that of the port and other infrastructure or Sabadell airport, all that the State is managing, because it does it badly. And what happened from April 7th is an exhibition. And so, we're not going back, that's to say... And, therefore, it is what we want now, the immediate management; in any case, if not, we will have it in a few months' time, because the people of Catalonia will have decided it. To the People's Party... well, no, in any case we'll do Ciutadans. I don't know, that's to say, I haven't heard either Ciutadans or the People's Party explain and explain to the citizen and citizens of Catalonia why Prat worked badly. If it is because of you that there were other airports that also went very badly already is enough excuse, man, I seem, say, sorry to feel in this Parliament that the fact that the Prat is bad is because there are others. That's not true, because it's been a few days, and it's been a lot longer here. And the question is, if the government delegation has now committed itself to setting up one hundred and fifty more police officers and fifty more machines, could it not have done it before, when I knew from a long time ago – from a long time ago – that they had to do it? Now they can and they can't? We just had to do the ridiculous thing. This is said to be mismanagement and it is said to be boycott – it is said so. I've said many more things to her. Because the boycott wasn't at the Prat airport – I said it's a passenger for my region, for the Baix Llobregat – the boycott is in all the infrastructures. Mr. Rodriguez, the caravans make them people from the metropolitan area of my people, from my region, every day, to Sant Boi, Castellbisbal and Molins de Rei. Because you are boycotting and you are not doing the work you have to do and you are not executing the work that touches you. [[Some applause.]] That's what I explained to you, reading all the intervention we're doing, okay? That would be the question. But I'm giving you an explanation. The Ciutadans solution. We read his notes: "To analyze who are the reasons that led you to act..., that there are not sufficient resources. So, he didn't put them in the State! And why wasn't it dimensioned correctly? Well, that's because it didn't work out. This is his solution: to analyze what happened. But if everybody knows, there are no cops or open garages. Second solution: "Studying measures...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.170.0	Mr. Couples, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.171.0	...measures so that no more steps are taken and as far as possible, which are put down. Is this his solution? That everyone knows what's to be done and what's to be done, what's to be written... that we have to solve the problem. And, in accordance with bilateral agreements, thanks, the PSC, Ciutadans and the People's Party have given us the solution. It is very clear that if we want power, from the Prat airport, to fly wherever we want, there is only one way, which is to take the flight we have already taken, which is the flight to independence. And we already told them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.172.0	You've run out of time, Mr. Couples.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.173.0	...and why the only way to negotiate bilateral agreements... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.174.0	Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. Mrs. Grau, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.175.0	Let's remove item number 1, from the Catalunya Group Yes, it is Pot, and to ask for a separate vote from item 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.176.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.177.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.178.0	Thirty seconds. See if we can make it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.179.0	Thank you. I think it'll cover everything. Mr. Couples, if you really wanted to solve the problem, you could have presented a motion to the government delegation asking you to bring more Spanish police to the Prat airport. We voted in favour of it. [[Voice remorse and some applause.]] What you want is not to solve the problem, it's to flatten it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.180.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Mr. Terrades, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.181.0	For a separate vote, the President asked for point 3 and point 4. And the point number... No, the number 4, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.182.0	Madam Bravo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.183.0	Allusions, first.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.184.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.185.0	Well, he was telling me... I gave him my solution to the subject of conventions. Yours is very clear: to prepare twenty-seven new conventions, one for each of the member countries, plus all the others, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.186.0	Thank you, Mrs. Bravo. [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Yes, separate vote, what have you told me, of five points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.187.0	Points 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.188.0	Thank you. [[Pause.]] A separate vote has been requested on points 3 and 4. Yes, Mr. Couples, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.189.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.190.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.191.0	Very quick.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.192.0	Yeah, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.193.0	Mr. Rodriguez, it's that he didn't understand anything or explain why this young man is here. I mean, here we're talking about how the Spanish government, with a lot of anticipation, didn't put up these cops that you say in time. And, in the end..., and to Mrs Bravo, constantly thank her for repeating and explaining to us that if we want to be able to fly directly from Barcelona to Japan there is only one way, that is independence, that we already know, that if we look at bilateral agreements, in a few months' time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.194.0	A separate vote has been requested on points 3 and 4. We'll vote first on three, four, and then the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] We'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 82 votes to 50, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 73 votes to 33, with 26 abstentions. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please... Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Ministry of Planning and Management of Barcelona Airport - Prat was approved by 121 votes in favour, 11 against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the government's inquiry into the subway at Llobregat Hospital]] [[302-00161/11]] The fifteenth point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the metro to the Hospitallet de Llobregat, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please... [[Pause.]] Quiet, and please. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.195.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counsellor Rull..., first of all, I would like to greet Mr. Piñar, president of L'Hospitalet Neighbor Associations, a person who has worked a lot for our city and is a person who symbolizes the struggle of the neighbors during all these years, and it has been thanks to that constancy and that struggle that this claim has remained alive. The motion before you today can be divided into three parts. The first, which has to do with the two stations of the metro line in L'Hospitalet de Llobregat. We want to see reflected in writing the commitment of a timetable for the commissioning of the stations of Ildefons Cerdà and Provençana; we want to know where the money is going to be taken from; we want to ensure its budget allocation in the budgets of 2018, and we want to see a possible advance of the opening date in 2019. We therefore want to explore the possibility that it will be able to enter service in 2018. The second part: we want a summit to be held to promote the completion of line 9 and line 10, with the participation of the administrations involved and also of the neighbours. We believe that if the Government has time to convene summits to repeat the 9-N, it can also do so, it should do so for something as necessary for citizens as are this line 9 and this line 10. We want to see that central section finished, because it's the one that makes sense to the whole line. Now that you're so good at setting dates, then, set a date to finish line 9. Because if the Generalitat had done its job, rather than being on the sidelines, of a historic summit summit, we probably wouldn't have so many mobility problems in the metropolitan area. Because it's no use blaming Madrid here. Line 9 is a competition of the Generalitat; the Generalitat had time and money to make this line and two more lines. I remind you that we had 2,000 million euros and the five-year deadline. It's been 15 years and we're already going for 6,000 million euros, which is said soon. Time has passed and the money has vanished. And that is undoubtedly the Generalitat's fault, and whoever says otherwise lies. The money has vanished and here the only responsibility is of the Government of the Generalitat, and in this Madrid has nothing to do with it. And this brings me to the third part: we want to know. We want to know not only what will happen in the future with this line and when it will be completed in its entirety; not only do we want to know that, but we want to know everything. We want transparency, we want information. And, yes, that's our obsession, you can tell us; we have an obsession with transparency, for knowing where those 4,000_million budget deviations have gone and in detail; in detail of the concepts, the amount associated with each of them and that contracts are made public. Not only are my fellow citizens and I, there are a lot of citizens who ask. And we want a detailed study of the cost overruns and those associated contracts that are behind. We want a review and renegotiation of the contracts with the concessionaries, so that they do not remain a black hole where the money of all Catalans escapes. And we want the citizen to have access to that information. We don't want excuses, we want to know the truth. We want to know the failures that have occurred in the catastrophic management of this infrastructure in order to be able to put solutions. And we have wasted too much time; time that we cannot waste, therefore, to see the completed as soon as possible. We can understand that Junts pel Yes can come to vote against because they are unable to make self-criticism and vote in favor would recognize the failure and its involvement in the dip. But I hope the Socialist Party is not looking at the polls when it comes to voting. The Socialist Party governs in L'Hospitalet, Citizens is the second force in the city and in this a common front must be made. I hope that Mrs Marin is not looking through the rear-view mirror, but rather looking forward to the citizens who are not going to understand that the Socialist Party can vote against a written compromise, guaranteed funding for these lines, for those subway stations, and a possible advance in the opening of these stations. The citizens in general will not understand that they are voting against pushing the completion of the whole line, because no longer prioritising the completion of the works of line 9 goes to the detriment of the economic and social mobility of the entire metropolitan area, because the need for metro is not limited only to direct users, it also involves entrepreneurs and investors who value the infrastructures available in each place when it comes to providing economic life, employment and the future. It helps to alleviate traffic congestion problems, to pollution problems; it is a win-win. Millions of citizens would benefit in one way or another, regardless of their political choice, ideology or identity. And here we should all be united, hand in hand, to get things that really impact on the whole of citizenship, such as that line 9 that would help unlock mobility throughout the metropolitan area. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.196.0	Thank you, Mrs. De la Calle. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word the lady Hortènsia Grau, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.197.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Congresswoman, I don't know, huh? I don't know if it's the mayor who has to look at the municipalities or it's you who with this young man have started to campaign for the municipalities or who they come from. Why, you see, and with all the love, huh? This motion is to reiterate things that have been approved and spoken and discussed in the Committee of Territories, and not to mention, as I will already specify, anything new that has not been announced, agreed – and I also take advantage of it to greet the president of the Federation of Associations of Veins of the Hospital – with the association federation of Veins that made the assembly last week and endorsed the pact, agreed with the Generality, agreed with the Assembly of the Hospital, agreed with the Assembly of Barcelona. So, I don't know, it sounds like a little bit of an election announcement that, as you can see, now we're aiming for so much. Most of these questions are those that have already been granted to the government. Point 1, this, it's already presented to the calendar; it's presented. Besides, I'm telling you, with the federation of associations of veins that gave the endorsement and even gave the endorsement that..., well, he heard that the entry into operation could not be advanced to 2018. They've come to swallow it, the calendar. Well, then, because they heard that it was a good deal. That's why we don't support him at this point three. In point 2, which they have made a..., they have accepted the theme of the UPC, well, so, yes; making public the financing mechanism, yes, it is interesting. Why? Because, among other things, for example, in the case of the lines of..., of the two lines that have been opened from Barcelona – Foneria and Foc Cisell –, we do know that there has been an economic agreement between the Barcelona Assembly, which has laid money the Generality, and the Assembly. Clearly, in the case of the Hospital, at the moment, it is the Generalitat that makes the reversal. And it's not just opening these lines of line 10, it's also taking advantage of opening the L5, which improves us..., Ernest Lluch's L5 station that improves our intermodality, because it gives us access to some other lines. So, at this point, we'll give it support because, well, it's good to know how to finance it. At point 4, we will abstain; at point 5, also; at point 6, also. You see, all the points that we think have already been agreed, that they have been worked out, that they have been agreed, that they have the approval of the lives, that we have there..., we will not vote against them, because we cannot vote against them because what they say..., we are not against what they say, what happens is that this is already, has already been agreed, and therefore here there has been the effort of all the administrations and also of the veins and of the municipal groups. You're the second force, we're in opposition. And we, our group, our group together, have also been presenting motions on this line. The Municipal Group Change the Hospital, you know that now the Mayan presented a motion with many of these points which, moreover, was approved..., almost all the points were approved, also for the Municipal Group of Citizens. In point 10 we will support them, because we believe that all that is increasing transparency and information to the citizen seems right to us. At 11 o'clock, well, we're grateful that you've accepted the emena. 'Cause there's an interesting part here, isn't there? I mean, I think that everything I've been telling you about why things have been like this, what it's supposed to be... why there's been cost overruns, it's important that we know. And above all, just's, we've added a point that is what I'm very concerned about this line, isn't it? – and here we have different responsibilities governments, because we have to be serious and we have to say – which is why – I would like someone to explain to me and I didn't get it – the works started for the tips, for the extremes, when the necessary tram is the central tram, which is where the demand was concentrated. Currently, on a working day, line 9 provides fifty_ thousand and requires validations to the total of 1,300,000 passengers in the metro network. I mean, we're talking about a 4-per-cent, huh? , while the fish of line 9 in terms of length is 25_per_cent. Actually, if someone explained it to me, then I'd appreciate it and I'd probably be able to do it until I got to hear it or take over. So, at this point, we'll give it support. Also in point 12, which is to give compliment, because we can't say no, to give compliment to a young man. We believe that what is approved here must be completed, because, if not, this Parliament is lacking. And in point 13, and I already explained it the other time, too, that they presented something like – that of doing all the protocol's issues, of not doing electoral with the opening themes – I already explained it, we will abstain. Because, well, it's not just the generality, it's everyone who should have done it. First, that there is already a law, the electoral law, that regulates it. But it's everybody, huh? because what it can't be is that in the generality we say, "Okay, we're going to self-flagel and we won't do it," because we don't have to do it," "electoralism, but then the state government comes or comes together and does it. Therefore, at this point we will abstain. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.198.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. The words "Mrs. Mireia Vehí", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.199.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Well, as the honourable Member of Catalonia has said, yes, it is Pot, today Ciutadans presents us with a motion of thirteen points, most of which are already in operation. We'll give it a lot of support, it'll take four, five and nine points, where we'll abstain. At quarter, because before we compromise future assumptions we think we need to do an audit and because it's one of the biggest economic holes in the history of this country's infrastructure. And at as much as five as nine because we think that here the State won't solve much. It is that line 9 of the subway and line 10 are a dark chapter of the history of politics to serve the capitalism of friends, of mismanagement and of disenfranchisement of the land. And here only the Spanish State is missing. And that is to say, before we continue with the presentation, that we would like all those who criticise the Castor case so lightly also to judge the political disaster of lines 9 and 10 of the metro with the same criteria. The disaster began in 2002, the legacy of the Pujol government and Artur Mas as artifex, imagine. From €2,000_million of initial presupposition up to the current €16,000_million; works as at least until 2020, and with a debt of decades of more than €8,000_million. I have already said: poor planning, lack of understanding of the soil and debt with private entities and concessions of public works that have multiplied the cost. And here you play everybody, huh? : two governments of Convergence, but also two tripartites, and it was the tripartite that swallowed to grant the stations, multiplying the cost and transferring direct capital to private companies. According to the Economic Report, the expenditure between 2003 and 2014..., line 9 multiplys by two the expenditure of Salut and Benestar, and of the same period..., or continue, of this same period – forgiveness – and much exceeds the assumption in matter, for example, as housing, one of the greatest conflicts of this country. And one of the key arguments is to get the metro to very poorly communicated areas: the Hospitallet, the Marina - Zona Franca, close Barcelona for Dalt. We already agree with this, with this approach, we think it is necessary. Now, for the time being, neither Marina - Zona Franca, nor Ildefons Cerdà ; the only ones that work are from Prat airport to Fira Gran Via, where there are, curiously enough, the Mobile World Congress and where the companies that participate in it have "tightened up because this shot forward. You see, well-known casino economy. We at the Measurements Act have already entered an item to do an audit of line 9, because, before anything else, we think we need to know how the money was spent, where and why. And today's citizens present to us this young man – I have already said, we will give a lot of support to him – with a speech very focused on the vein and with a demand for concrete stations, with a 13-point inclusive about not making it electoral. We agree. What happens, which, as has already been said, you present us with a lot of things that are already in operation. So, it seems like it's been a while... or that you're in an election campaign for your municipalities, they've already said it around here. In any case, we already know that, of electoral logic, little. We are glad to be able to talk about line 9 and to denounce once more the triffijocs under the table of those articles of the sign that have plundered until the last euro of the public arches of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.200.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Then, in order to fix his position, Mr. David Pérez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.201.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Also greet Miguel García, Jesús Aguado, Carmen Esteban and, logically, also Manel Piñar. And I would like to start above all with my own words, too, which he did the other day and which Councilman Rull said here the other day: "First of all, I am not falling for the rings at the time of recognizing that line 9 is not a lucky act and that it has not gone well. That didn't go well for many reasons. That's it. I'm not blaming myself, on the contrary, we all have a share of responsibility – it's been said before in Greece – we all have a share of responsibility. But in any case, I do also make my own words of saying, of the counselor, when I talked about continuing to make the tunnel, we have to look for financing mechanisms, as was done for the Foneria and Foc Cisell, and, lastly, we also have to find financing for the two stations of the Hospital. This work has already been done, between the council and the corresponding institutions. The other day we also did it through this mechanism of the economic plan and finance of the Ifercat, which is the public enterprise that owes to the end these actions of railway infrastructures, and so it was also explained to the Joint Hospital to the municipal groups and to the living forces of the city. Precisely, a few days ago, in May, there was a meeting with the Economic Vice President of the Government, Councillor Rull, the Mayor of the Hospitallet, the spokespersons of the municipal groups and representatives of the Federation of Vein Associations of the Hospitallet, who explained this new date of completion of the subway works to the City of the Hospitallet and the compromise to solve line 9, line 10 and the station of Ernest Lluch, the new station of Ernest Lluch, of line 5. That's great news. When this is over, in the city of the hospital, counselor, we'll have, you know, how many subway stations? Twenty; twenty metro stations to the city of Hospitallet. It's a success. It is magnificent news, and it is a compromise, therefore, of a great institutional agreement, of a great agreement between the different administrations and the different institutions, an agreement that contemplates the most important of all, that are the economic commitments. That's the most important thing: there's money to do it. I am convinced that if this work can be done in the accounts of 2019 2018, the counselor will have no problem that this can be done. We have doubts that it can be done, but if it can be done before, it will be done before. We also have the consensus of the municipal groups of the Hospitallet; we also have the unanimous agreement, the political consensus of the entities and associations. But, indeed, there is also a local member in this young man. He saw the question the other day when he was talking about the stuffed paper and these questions. It has come back to see today that there is a ‘more' than this young man, that we can share, and that there are many things that are already girls or that are already doing, but there is a clear intention to carry the issue..., also the political struggle at the Hospital Assembly, and this, from our group, we do not want to allow. Mrs Naomi, for my part, to vote in favour of questions from Ciutadans, for my part, no problem. I already say it, but in this case, no; in this case we do have problems, because there is a local component also later, huh? Therefore, we will not cooperate. Most of the questions are already being asked, as explained by the different spokespersons who preceded me. And there is a component in which I agree with the deputy of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, which is the whole issue of transparency. I'm a little bit over the subway at the Hospitallet is linked to..., I'm a little like the city of the Hospitallet. Dol, huh? Because I think it's two different things. One thing is the subway of the Hospital and another thing is the whole issue of financing, of the transparency of line 9. If there's one thing you're talking about, you'd be absolutely okay with it. Let's just say, do the two of you once in a while, huh? But in any case, I keep the news positive – with the news positive – has already been explained. And I end with the compromise of the Federation of Vein Associations, here is Mr. Manel Pinar, the president of the Vein Association..., the letter that has arrived at us, to the Mayor of the Hospitallet, to assume the commitment to monitor and the installation in the march of the workers, the execution of the calendar set to its proposals, with the hope of even detailing the calendar terms. And, counselor, I must also say: an absolute conviction that he wants to hold a committee meeting to follow up the work. He's hospital people, he's hospital people, he's very... [[Funnel veils]] - No, no, no, Exactly. We are very... we have a lot of interest that these works can do well, they can end well, and therefore the most important thing is that this is done. The young man? You don't have to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.202.0	Thank you, Mr. Perez. The words of Mr. Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.203.0	Counsellor, President, Members, we welcome the motion that is being tabled, because it is in line with some of the points that you have tabled... proposals from the Group of the European People's Party, both in this plenary and in committees. Obviously, in front of the neighboring representatives of Hospitalet we positively appreciate that the L10 can finally reach Hospitalet, and therefore we will not vote against it. But we also need to talk about L9. The L9, that great technical colossal of the work of the Generalitat of Catalonia; an example of waste of money; an example of poor management of public works. He says: "No, it is that it triples the expenditure on the initial budget; no, it does not triple, it surpasses it. A joke that costs 16,000_million_of_euros, that's the L9. And since the motion not only speaks of Hospitalet, it also speaks of Barcelona, we are glad that two metro stations can be opened in the Free Zone, only two – only two – because there will continue to be ghost stations in the city of Barcelona. That said, they will open with indirect management, with an agreement between the City of Barcelona for the purchase of some properties with the Generalitat of Catalonia of 40_million_de_euros. But as the Puemite government of Ada Colau and an independentist government does, it is a fantastic agreement. This is done by another administration, ruled by another party or a private party, and now you would be calling this "speculation or ball". But as the 'Pomasites and the Independenceists do, it is a fantastic agreement. What about the central stretch of the L9? They're gonna get something spectacular. Barcelona is the capital of Catalonia, very well; therefore, they will turn the L9 into the most expensive public transport system of peripheral connection in all of Spain, that is, it will not be of territorial connection, nor of metropolitan connection, because it will not pass through the center of Barcelona. Using your criteria and arguments, we can say that the Government of the Generalitat boycotts the city of Barcelona, boycotts the citizens of Barcelona, boycotts the infrastructure of the citizens of Barcelona. Why are they boycotting the city of Barcelona, Mr. Counsellor? Why do they treat them that way? They've got the L9 without a central stretch. How can that be consented to, Mr. Counsellor? It can't be – it can't be. Basically – and I'm finishing – the motion asks for two things. One is information, and the other is knowing the funding mechanisms. Information on the calendar of the L10 works as you pass through Hospitalet and know the financing mechanisms, which given the L9 experience, you are not to be trusted. And I think that asking for information and knowing how it's going to be financed, from this, no one can vote against. It is true that we will vote in favour of something that the People's Party has already tabled in a motion, which is to know what its investment priorities are for the next five years. What if they don't make it public? What are you hiding? Do they have a road map, an investment in what they are going to do in infrastructure for those five years? Where is that information? We want to know what they are going to do in infrastructure, we want to know; we want transparency. Mr. Counselor, we want to know. But you don't inform us. It is true that we will abstain on a couple of points, because when you speak in the motion to review and renegotiate the terms on the contracts of the L9 and the L10, then, the truth, when the Government of the Generalitat has to renegotiate, then it gives us fear. And since we do not have much confidence in this government, we will abstain. And the other is when they talk about the openings, when they talk about opening..., that there will be no openings, this is... – as Mrs Grau said earlier – is legislated by law. But it is true that an inauguration allows to know this finished work to the neighbors, to make the participants that this work will increase their quality of life and also often the inaugurations serve to pay homage to many neighboring platforms that have demanded that infrastructure and that, after all, publicly recognize, on the part of the Administration, that this achievement is thanks to them, I believe that it is of justice to the neighbors. We shall abstain on a couple of points, and the rest will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.204.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. Next is the words of Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.205.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, Mr. Piñar and the rest of the company of the Federation of Vein Associations of the Hospital of Llobregat, well, today we have a motion on line 10 of the Hospital, actually, but I think it's explained... in fact, I share all the intervention of Hortênsia, practically, right? Because I think we've had a lot of work going on here, but with an electoral system that's getting a little tired. Let me do that... you must remember that program, don't you? , Behind the cameras, donns, dexi'm iron Citizens, behind the cameras in this Faristol, to show a little what passes in this Parliament. "Consell Comarcal del Barcelonès, a proposal of his own. This is what Mr García said: "We know today that the proposed law that we have presented for the suppression of the District Council of Barcelones has had the virtue of doubling the space-time and transforming seven years of hope into days. We got to what Convergence, Left, PSC haven't done in seven years, and we got to do it in days, saying we were the first ones to work on the subject. Listen, on the 28th of February, we presented a motion to the local council to close it and March 15th was approved. You presented it after, for all intents and purposes, all the games presented it. Well, let's go to the previous plenary. « Protection of complainants, proposal submitted for Ciutadans. Deien, Mr De Páramo: "Unfortunately, there is very little talk in this Parliament about these issues, there should be more talk. I understand each other's political interests. I understand each other's strategies, more when no proposal on corruption has yet been put forward by any of those groups that were in the press conference, that are Catalonia Yes it is Pot, Junts pel Si i la CUP. Well, that's what I said on May 31st, when on May 14th, we approved measure 119 to the Commission of the Cemcord: "It is necessary to approve a law of legal protection of all citizens and whistleblowers of possible cases of corruption. We approve of this on March 14 and Ciutadans records it on March 21, taking the work of others, nothing happens. « Corridor Mediterrani, 11 d'April, the Carrizosa doctrine ; yes, you follow the Carrizosa doctrine, which said: « Yesterday we were in the initiative of infrastructures like the Mediterranean Corridor, an infrastructure that nobody talked about until Citizens put it in the one hundred and fifty covenants signed for the government agreement with the People's Party ; 11 d'April 2017. Listen, if that's what we brought to the 2004 election program, if Ferrmed was registered in Brussels on 5 April 2004, if the European Council approved the Mediterranean Corridor in 2011. You come here to advertise, and now you want to do it with line 10. And we're not done. And we're not sick of it, because Councilman Rull and Vice President Junqueras on May 24 go to the Hospital, make a press round and explain everything you ask for to the motion – May 24. What are you doing? On May 26, they present an inquiry with the same terms – on May 26, two days later. And on June 2nd they present a motion to say: "Listen to me, we want to date the overtures, we want the financing..., but if that was explained on May 24th! You want to stay the job and say it's worth it when it's not. [[applause]] - when it's not. There's enough – there's enough. And that's why today he wanted to make Citizens, behind the cameras, because you want to make his video, you want to make his postcards, but when you show, with calendars, what happens to the real world and what you think happens, it's like a castle of cards. Therefore, look, so, no; we will not, we will not give support to this young man, because we are not tired of advertising stuff, because there is not enough. You... agreed to name your candidate for election one year earlier, but don't martyr us with your election campaign, which isn't called. I think it's a good thing they do primaries, but we're not in an election campaign. Stop running an election campaign. We are happy with the government's commitment – absolutely happy. Because the government is working to get the subway to the end of line 9 and line 10. We've opened the tram at the airport, fantastic. And the councilman said it in a control session, which I remember perfectly, he said: "And now, although we have inaugurated this tram, let's continue the same work on line 10, which today allows us to be talking about opening these two stations at the Hospital de Llobregat on the subway line. So we're not enough, if that's what I'm saying. You ask for point 1, 6 and 3 execution calendars of the works and inauguration. All right. The Free Zone : summer 2018; if the councillor presented it with the mayor of Barcelona. Provençana : February 2019; she explained it. Ildefons Cerdà : October 2019. What more do they want? I'm saying that because that's what they're asking, but it's already there. They say: "Presuspost; we want to know the presuspost. Thirty-seven million, if the Councillor said so and the Vice President of the Economy said so, if they have said so, and, moreover, they have explained that they will do so with the investment plan of Ifercat, that it is already approved. If they've explained it. And you're talking about finance. Can it be published? So long, it can be done. Want to know the conditions, transparency, etc.? But if we agree; if we can agree with the vastness of the points, it is that the problem is that you want to appropriate a job that you do not do. They say: "We call for a summit. Listen to me, but if the councillor has announced it, there will be a follow-up commission with entities and with assemblies and with the government. But if it's already – it's already. And the central tram, which they want to study and make a calendar, so if the Councillor has also said so and, in fact, they have asked to be able to ask the EIB for these funds to be able to finish it. But if everything they ask is already there. What's going on is that you come here today to do electoral, you come here to do your fancy electoral campaign, and we don't think we'll follow the game. We're not done, until here we've arrived and, therefore, we're focused on doing what's on us, that's finishing the subway, that's what we're doing and, by luck, the hospital's 2019 lives are going to be met. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.206.0	Thank you, Mr. Moral Gomez. To pronounce on the exams, has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.207.0	Thank you. We have accepted almost all of Catalonia's amendments Yes, it is Pot and the CUP because they increased the transparency requirement of this proposal, and those we did not accept were not because we disagreed, but because they were talking about other metro lines and today we wanted to focus the debate on line 9. As a matter of fact, several of the people who have spoken wondered why we were repeating something that has already been announced and agreed, that a compromise has already been made. Well, that's precisely why, because they don't stop being ads, and ads, and ads, and this line should have been finished in 2007, and we're in 2017 and we're still waiting, huh? Interpelling the Government is the way the opposition has and the neighbors have to press, because, if not, this is not over. The truth is that I have to congratulate Junts for the effort, because it must be recognized that much work must be done to try to justify the unjustifiable in interventions full of sophisms. And they also said: "It is that you are appropriated... Look, the most shameful appropriation that has ever been and that we had to witness here yesterday, in this Chamber, it was that of the Government, it was that you made the guaranteed income of citizenship, which is a law that was promoted from civil society, you had to collect a lot of signatures, it was a paper with all parliamentary groups working, and if at the end... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, Mr. Chakir, whom you applauded. Well, look, it turns out that the promoter group had to go on hunger strike, statements from the promoter group, because Junts pel Yes was boycotting the presentation. And that can go in the press and you can read it. That's the appropriation you guys made yesterday. [[applause]] And I fell for the shame of having to share the Chamber and witness that. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.208.0	Please, shut up! - And please, shut up!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.209.0	May I continue? Don't get nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.210.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.211.0	Look, Congressman David Pérez said: "The management of Line 9 is not a lucky performance. Let's start calling things by their name: Line 9 is the great stubble of Left, Convergence and the Socialist Party. And the three chapuceros seem to have made a pact of silence so that we don't know what's behind it, why those 4,000_million_euros have gone in excess of cost; there's no detailed information about what's happened, there's no detailed report. What are they trying to hide? What don't you want us to know, huh? After squandering €6,000_million, triple the budgeted, they will again vote against the transparency of the financing of this work. But they said, "This is a local theme – it's a local theme. It is an insult to the intelligence of citizens to say that this is a local issue; this affects the entire metropolitan area, it is affecting millions of citizens...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.212.0	Mrs. De la Calle, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.213.0	I'd like you to have the same consideration with me, as you've had before with Congressman Joan Ramon Casals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.214.0	I'm sorry – I'm sorry – it seems to me that precisely today who used more time in this chamber was a deputy, the one who passed the most, from his parliamentary group. So, before you say things, let's think about it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.215.0	Well, since I can't go on, then, I'm leaving. Transparency.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.216.0	Thank you, Mrs. De la Calle. The debate is over, we're calling for a vote. [[Hortênsia Grau Juan asks to speak.]] Mrs. Grau, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.217.0	[[The speaker began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] ...separated from the points... point 3, for one part, and points 2, 8, 10, 11 and 12, which can go in a pack.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.218.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.219.0	Thank you. [[Alberto Villagrasa Gil asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.220.0	Mr. Villagrasa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.221.0	To request a separate vote on items 8 and 13.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.222.0	[[Thank you.]] [[Gerard Gómez del Moral and Fuster asks to speak.]] Mr. Moral Gomez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.223.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.224.0	Thirty seconds. And then thirty.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.225.0	It'll be too short. Look, I'm an independentist but before a democratic. And, therefore, I say to him: to me I am not ashamed to share this hemicicle with you. I want you to be here and if the citizens vote, they can express themselves freely in this Parliament. A deputy of this chamber thinks he can never say that he is ashamed to share with any deputy of any ideology. And that's embarrassing. [[Perlongats applause. Look Vehi and Cantenys ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.226.0	Mrs Vehi, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.227.0	For a separate vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.228.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.229.0	Four, five and nine.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.230.0	Yeah, all right. Well, a separate vote has been requested from points 4, 5 and 9, which I ask if they can be voted together, Mrs Vehi. Can points 4, 5 and 9 be voted together? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Okay. Thereafter, a separate vote was requested from points 8 and 13. Can they vote together on 8th and 13th? [[Pause.]] The vote on points 3, 2, 10, 11 and 12 was then called for. Can they vote together? [[Pause.]] No, no, The one who is not able to vote, I must say, on 8th and 13th. Exactly, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.231.0	The 3_has to go sun, and the 2, 8, 10, 11 and 12 in another package.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.232.0	Yes, but can the 8th and 13th vote together? [[Pause.]] For you... I don't think so. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's it, then. And then 2, 10, 11, 12– 2, 10, 11 and 12– can they vote together? [[Pause.]] All right, all right. We'll take these five votes and then the rest, okay? [[Pause.]] Come on, then. We'll start by voting point number three. We're voting point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 43 votes in favour, 87 against and no abstentions. We will now vote on points 4, 5 and 9. The vote begins. Points were rejected by 35 votes to 77, with 18 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been rejected by 41 votes to 78, with 10 abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 2, 10, 11 and 12. The vote begins. Points have been rejected by 53 votes in favour, 77 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 13. The vote begins. Point 13_has been rejected by 32 votes to 77, with 21 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Moció on the metro to Llobregat Hospital has been rejected by 43 votes in favour, 75 against and 10 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the tourism model]] [[302-0157/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for an inquiry to the Government on the tourism model presented by the Parliamentary Group on the application for Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Lord Sergi Saladié. [[Widow's remorse.]] Ask them to be silent, please; as always, they already know. And I'm sorry because I'm a little heavy, but you have to hear that we have to continue the session. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.233.0	All right, thank you, President. This motion follows the question that we asked fifteen days ago about the tourism model, with fourteen points; fourteen points that have a double objective or a set of objectives: short-term objectives, trying to adopt measures or urging the Government to implement measures of containment and minimization of the impacts of tourism, whether territorial, occupational or environmental, and some other objectives or sets of points that were placed, so in long term, trying to provide elements to make structural changes in what would be the tourist activity and its impacts on the territory. These different actions that we plant have a different natural; therefore, there are no words or attempts to affect the territorial impact of the tourist activity. And, in this sense, we call for the immediate cancellation of the urban master plans, both that of the Circuit de Catalunya and that of the reordering of the area of the CRT of Vila-seca and Salou, that before we knew Barcelona World. In the case of the Circuit de Catalunya, because we understand that it is posed, to the band of the tourist activity, therefore, to the abst or at the disposal of new industrial only when the same councillor of Territori, in his parliament, said that in Catalonia we had a 70_percent of the industrial solo that is vacant, that is, that is to say, that it is useless. So, before we go to build new industrial soil, we can develop what we already have. And we also supplement this point of the Barcelona World area, with a point 13 – which makes explicit reference that the Generality does not execute the purchase option that it has of 110_million euros on 150_hectares that are currently owned by "the Box", after a process of expropriation in the name of a general interest that was made on the veins and veins of Vila-seca and Salou. Therefore, if this point can be approved, try to avoid public money badly in order to benefit, in this case, a private entity such as the Box. Another set of points we ask are aimed at containing what would be the tourist pressure. In this sense, what we are asking for is the withdrawal of the proposal of the regulation decree for tourist accommodation. More than anything because it's a decree of lawlessness, because what makes a liberalization even bigger. There's been enough bait in the city hall, in the same tourist sector, and in the veins and veins. A tourist pressure that every time is stronger on the joint of the city, that in many cases is expelled from its houses by this real estate pressure that is taking place. In this sense, we are also asking for a moratorium on new buildings intended for tourist accommodation, and also cancelling the qualification of tourist municipalities, because the forecast is that it is a collage and practically in anything you can claim that you are tourist municipalities, with all the liberalisation of commercial schedules that this..., and other negative effects that it has to do with. Another set of actions are intended to dignify the places of work. And in this sense we have set two points, basically with the same focus, that is to prevent the existence of workers and workers in the tourism sector who are working with the same agreement that they are not in the sector. Here there are questions that the Generalitat, today, we have more capacity, that it is in everything that involves the public management of tourist equipment, already museums, etc. Therefore, to age because..., not to age, to implement measures because the Generality in those processes that it can decentralize, with which we do not agree, but if this has to exist, that it does so in agreement with the agreements of the sector for which this worker or worker ends up working and not for that of the enterprise, that it is a collage to benefit the entrepreneur with the wages of misery of these workers and workers, much by the way of which it would charge him for purposes. Therefore, two measures in this sense. A package of actions aimed and focused at the tourist tax, reduce to zero the presupposition intended for the promotion that is made basically out of this pocket. I mean, all that money goes to promotion. We plant that should not be spent on promotion, the Generalitat already has other mechanisms to promote tourism. And, in any case..., and if you don't have them, then you can already invent them, but the tourist tax must go, above all, to its essence, which is to reduce the impacts, to pale the negative impacts that this tourist activity has on the territory, on the population, etc. Similarly, it also makes it easier for the joints to participate with the..., establish overcharges with this tourist fee, give a freedom to the municipality, and what we also ask is that the communes have 100_per_cent of this tourist fee. They're the main ones affected and they're the ones who know how to manage. In this sense, too, complementarily with this, we call for the suppression of the Catalan Tourist Agency. The band that we understand to be a duplicate with the same Directorate General of Tourism, is an entity that basically dedicates itself to promotion, and therefore what we say is that these workers and workers of the Catalan Agency of Tourism, one time this is able to extinguish, they also become part of this Directorate General of Tourism, of the same organic part of the Public Administration of the Generality. An approach, an action aimed at improving the knowledge of the tourism sector – you argued this and, collecting a little the glove, so we implemented it with this proposal – that is to develop a system of tourist pressure indicators, right? And for which, say, then, more scientifically we can follow up on these impacts every day and which is not left here alone, but also after some action plans aimed at reducing these tourist pressure indexes. I leave for the second part, on the positioning of the papers presented by the other groups, the points, let us say, that with all certainty they can be approved. And in any case, I'll finish detailing it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.234.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.235.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counselor, Congressman, you present to us a motion that speaks of some scattered elements in relation to the tourism model we have in the country. Some of these elements are consistent with what our group understands to be tourism: a responsible tourism with the people who work there, a responsible tourism with the people who love it, respect for the territory, social and cultural dynamism, and not a predatory tourism, speculation, favouring the culture of the "pilot", which generates rewards for a few, expenses for the majority, and which liquidates the potentialities of our heritage, in terms of valuing and enhancing it. Unfortunately, we have lived many years with this latest model, favoring for the field that can of many administrations and the « dumb last of easy money. Many years, too many years, that have gone appeased..., that they have been appeased for a while but that they are returning with strength – they are returning with strength – with the reinvigoration of the crisis and with the justification of the places of work, even though there are places of work barricaded, abusive and of little quality. With all this we agree and, therefore, we will vote in favour of a few points, most of the points in your motion that make reference to it. Now, in which we do not agree, it is in some of the solutions..., let's say, of the non-existence of solutions, which you do not propose, in those points where the only one you ask is to eliminate, let's say, eliminate without alternative. In these points, you are referring to « cancel, « withdraw, « immediate moratorium, « reduce to zero, « immediate suppression, « do not execute, « stop subsidizing, etcetera; without alternative. These points, of course, more than a motion about the tourism model, seem to be points about a model of tourism destruction – let's just say so, right? And, of course, we don't agree with this... It's obvious that what we have now is not the tourism we want, it's obvious. And it's obvious that the use that's been made and that it's still making tourism more of a problem than a rich one. But it is also evident to us that there are benefits in responsible tourism and sustainable tourism, not only economics – not only economics – but also social, cultural diversity and interaction, the empowerment of the country's natural and heritage resources, the fixing of the population to the territory, which cannot be ignored, but we should be able to know how to promote from a radical transformation of this predatory model and from the impulse of public policies, which is what is expected of a responsible government and opposition. That's why we've submitted papers at some of the points you've planted, trying to turn them into a positive, but unfortunately, they haven't accepted them. Look, where you ask to withdraw the rule of accommodation decree, which we don't like either, what we say is that this proposal is revised and incorporated, before we approve it, a whole series of allegations presented that are the most presentable. If we take it down, we'll still have a situation on this totally unregulated issue, and we want it to be rules, and I guess you too. When we ask for a general moratorium on new buildings for tourist accommodation, we propose that municipal autonomy be respected and that municipalities be helped to develop the special plans that some assemblies have already begun to make. I suppose we jointly consider that not all municipalities have the same problem and cannot have the same solutions, therefore. We are asking that the promotion budget be reduced to zero, and we are asking that priority be given to the destination of the tourist tax, as they have done in the assumptions, to the negative impacts of tourism, which are also called for, to the promotion of decent occupation, to cultural diffusion or to environmental rehabilitation. But to leave it to zero means that there are places where, to get some of these goals, it would take a promotion of a type of tourism to avoid what we have, and we can't do it. Therefore, the problem is not promotion, we understand, but what is promoted. And lastly, point 14, where you say first the house, is to say, to stop subsidizing everything that comes from outside, even though they are tourists, and to allocate resources to the residents – that badly read could be interpreted as a xenophobic point, while I'm sure it's not the intention – of course, what are we talking about? : to invest in responsible and sustainable tourism, able to recognize the social values of the place of state, able to facilitate access to culture, in a shared and respectful way between tourists and residents. I'm sure we want to say the same thing. Many times, therefore, the writings are the ones that end up and are the ones that they bring. So, naturally, if they don't accept these ideas, they'll understand that we can't vote for all these points that you're planting in denial without an alternative. Nor will we vote in favour of the point where we ask to change the Tourist Agency to a general direction, because we believe it does not bring anything else, or when they ask to cancel the qualification of tourist municipalities, which we believe it does not bring any benefits, because it simply deregulates. So we ask for a separate vote, President – if you want, I say it now – on points 2, 3, 4, 9 and 14, on one side, which can be voted together, and on point 7, on another side, which can be voted alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.236.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. The words of Mr. Joan García, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.237.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members..., Mr Saladié, we are grateful to you, from our group, to put on the table the possibility to talk about tourism in Catalonia. In the question to the councillor, you were able to list the figures for tourism growth in Catalonia, some figures which, as happens to all of Spain, have been good; yes, more quantitatively than qualitatively. In fact, we're talking about a sector that has come to assume 15 percent of our gross domestic product. For us these figures put us before an opportunity; for you, these figures, these resources, this economic dynamism, are not an opportunity. You don't want to work on transforming our tourist system, working to demonize it, and end up defending the postures of certain tourismophobia, which we think are scarcely reasonable. It's not the first time they've made a defense of a pre-industrial model of society, and it's not the first time we define them as luddites, but it's actually they've made the concept of "growing up an adjective of common political use that comes back to us at the time of the 19th century steam machine cream." Obviously, we do not agree with the inability, for us, of the Government of the Generality to take advantage of tourism growth and start a transformation on the part of an industry that needs to improve its capacity for innovation and diversification. And we think you should do it with two targets. One of them, to consolidate the sector before a temporary situation, which depends a lot on local political stability, but also on that of our geographical environment; a sector that we do not forget that – and this comment, Mr Saladié – helped our production system during the crisis and that has served as a floater for the good part of the Catalans, to which you could not have offered any alternative of credible life. A_second objective: unlike what they say, we need tourism to be a truncated tool for the territorial balance of Catalonia. I heard the question that you considered tourism to be the opposite: a danger to territorial cohesion and, therefore, to its balance. You, like the geographer he is, defend this position; I, like the geographer I know, defend all the opposite. I'll explain. You know that human activity, accepting a certain determinism, is intensely related to territorial resources. Human activity generates, from the neolithic, sedentary population concentrations, and, bearing in mind that territorial resources are irregular, population distribution is also irregular. Therefore, we accept that they exist in the human dynamics territorial imbalances of the Neolithic, we accept that this happened long before the phenomenon of tourism existed. From the fifties of the century, a phenomenon born at the end of the 19th century is incorporated into our society, a phenomenon that is called tourism, which precisely takes advantage of territorial resources to grow, resources such as landscape, culture, gastronomy, or historical resources of a territory. In other words, there is a rebalancing of the use of territorial resources, the use of territorial resources that were not previously considered to be territorial resources. This assumes territorial changes and confirms to tourism its transformative capacity. It's true that the massive tourism we've seen has generated territorial tensions, territorial tensions, overexploitation in many areas. And you, for this reason, defend that we must decrease and banish the tourist activity of our lives. So, Mr Saladié, we think we don't; what we have to do is reorder the tourist activity, change the model and use this new transformative model to balance the territory. This, for us, humbly, is the path; a path that is also following other parts of Spain successfully. We're talking about better management. It is true that the current Government, for us, is not developing a tourism strategy of territorial balance based on this vision. I know they're on other priorities, and that's why they don't give him time, Counselor, to do it, but we believe, from our humble opinion, that they're not doing it. But from here– from here– to its involuntuous nihilism, there are alternatives to more or less reasonable progress. Therefore, we will not give majority support to this motion. We wanted to present some points, which have not been accepted and which therefore defend these arguments. We understand that our models of society are very distant, but, Mr. Saladié, we believe – and allow 'but to comment on it' – that being radically unconscious and inconsistent ends them, from our point of view, moving away from reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.238.0	Thank you, Mr. García. The words "Mrs. Magda Casamitjana", of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí, are followed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.239.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Crida Constituent presents a motion of fourteen points. We've had a lot of luck; we've presented two items: one was withdrawn and the other was dealt. Therefore, many thanks, MP Saladié. We will vote in favour above all of the two points that refer to the best of the situation of workers in the sector, of course, and that of the balance point, through audiences, of the ski resorts rescued by the Generality. Because we don't support the other eleven points, I'll try to explain it and summarize it. A little further, and they see tourism as the word that uses a mike globally. Having had responsibilities in a touristic municipality – thanks to God, touristic, because, if not, we wouldn't have many of the advantages that other municipalities have –, let me say that not having tourists is, as a key to the lives of people in a village, very complicated to explain. We need to hear tourism as a whole. If the cities work together and they're fine, and they understand that it's a source of wealth, and they live with the right and worthy quality of service, we get all the tourists folded with much more hospitality and feeling, whatever they are. The tourism sector is more than hotels and accommodation; it is also trade, the agri-food industry and services. Look, a city like Roses, of twenty thousand inhabitants, has to predict an influx of tourists that multiply by four or five its population. The public servants added generate a great deal of occupation, which favors that people may continue to live and that many people come to live in the people. Now, it's true that the challenge is to reduce seasonality and keep you serving much longer, counselor. But, more than that, citizen day by day is every time more enriching, every time more powerful, and continues, even though it generates problems... reptes, which, as Mr. Bel says, reptes are successes that need to be taken and solved. And, more than that, of course, Barcelona is close. We'll send them to Barcelona, but we'll go back to sleep. We're a country with a huge capacity for attraction. I mean, not only tourism is important in Catalonia. The talent attraction makes much more people come to live in our home; attraction of events that generate much more punctual tourists, such as the Congress of the Mobile, or reversal attractions, such as the European Medicines Agency, which will make a lot of people come for work to visit Barcelona. There are also many foreign students who want to live in Catalan capitals, living together with emotion and strength in modern cities of continuous movement, of barrier and of opportunity. Tourism and attraction skills, two things, are the ones that generate these opportunities and risks. You know that. All successes create risks, and it may be able to manage them as necessary and beneficial. You started the inquiry with a strong one. We want to denounce the government's policy these last few years. We don't match people in their analysis, but we are aware that there are things we need to solve. Counselor, the motion seeks annulment, withdraw, establish an immediate moratorium, reduce such a presumption to zero, immediately suppress, not execute, stop subsidizing..., thus, without taking into account and without taking into account the consequences that this can have immediately in the territories or the number of people with whom it has been spoken, agreed and debated, still in the territory or in the sector. I've had a whole bunch of meetings and meetings that have agreed on these three things that you say will be as tremendous as the Circuit de Catalunya, the CTR de Salou - Vila-seca or the tourist tax on touristic accommodation. We will not vote in favour of these points that escape and lead to sudden and traumatic death on many important projects. The experts recommend, moreover, that if some project needs to be retouched, it must be done with great care and responsibility, not at a time of wisdom. Tourism in our home is no longer just of the sun and platja. We've got more than that, entrepreneurial projects that have been running around the territory every time more committed, because you also know, and you think it's necessary, and every time more specialized. Welcome, therefore, counselor, complexity and diversity, and welcome all the challenges, because at least we have them. The Government of Catalonia will continue to work on rapeseed rape with the sector and the territory to make tourism a future and country project, as the Councillor explained. Let me tell you that we will never lose sight of the fact that we have about the fourth industrial revolution, and it seems that the mechanization can expel a large mass of workers who will have to convert to the service sector and who will do us very well. Tourists now seek authenticity, every time we want to live in cities, the village and the village. I ended with a few words from Germà Bel: "Catalunya and especially Barcelona are the story of a success. Successes, innovation, create problems and adverse reactions, it would just be missing. Success is the right thing to do. And now, with more words from Germà Bel: "The future cannot stand, we must not hold for the future, we cannot close the door to the future, because, surely, it will also enter through the window. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.240.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Casamitjana. Then, in order to fix his position, Mr. Rafel Bruguera of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.241.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members of Parliament and Members, the question that was raised by the President-in-Office of the Council was raised, and it is true of the motion we are debating at this time, the huge gap between the tourist model that defends the CUP and ours. In fact, they are different models, and not so much for the great principles, for the most strategic principles that we can share – I think that if we make a debate, we can come to important agreements – but at the time of finding alternatives, finding solutions, realising, putting the little ones on the ground. And, therefore, overall this motion will not be able to vote in the affirmative. I'll let you give me some examples. We do not agree, for example, and we believe this to be a difficult mistake, to establish a widespread moratorium on the whole territory in order to avoid new constructions intended for tourist accommodation. Among other things, for two reasons. The first is because we believe that it would be a difficult time for the principles of municipal autonomy, principles that we defend in a clear, clear way. And, second of all, I'll be allowed to express it with an example, and an example that... following what the counselor did yesterday speaking of my people, I'll also set an example of the Scale, right? Miri, my village has many houses and tourist apartments, surely a lot; in change, it is a municipality that is absolutely deficient in hotel spaces. Well, at these times the mayor – when I was a failure – is trying to make urban changes to encourage the construction of some hotel in the Scale, which we really need. If this moratorium is produced, obviously, there would be an absolute time to the general principle and to which overall the steps we want and defend, which is that we can have some more hotel than we have and in better condition. Nor do we agree with the cancellation of the qualification of tourist municipalities. It may be discussed if some aspect has to be introduced or redefined, but the tourist municipalities, for their special characteristics, need recognition and better financing. By the way, the rest of the local world, too, huh? That's... that's... that's been going on for a long time. I look, without going further, yesterday, the Congress of Deputies' Hispanic Commission, it approved a proposal not by law, on the proposal of the Socialist Group, and negotiated with Podemos and Ciutadans, concerning the expansion of the financing of the touristic municipalities according to the Law of Local Histitudes. That is to say, if we were to give up the definition of tourist municipalities from Catalonia, we would be pulling one piece at a time, so that we could not enjoy, if this proposal is taken forward not of law, of the advantages that it means, therefore, to be tourist municipalities; I repeat it, regardless of whether the subject and the question can be discussed. The PSC defends the existence of the Catalan Tourist Agency. We can also be critical of the policy of the agency, but for us it is indisputable that global strategies for promoting our tourist offer, our tourist offers, which are fortunately strong or many, and therefore cannot agree with its suppression. The ski slopes, ladies and gentlemen, are a fundamental element for the economy of the territory where they are located. In many cases it is about the most important company in the region, not only in volume, but also in places of work, in generation of occupation. They can also be critical here. And in many cases we are with the management that in fan or have not made the Generality and Railways, but the Government cannot fail from some equipment that play a fundamental role in the maintenance of the population and the cohesion and territorial balances. Moreover, thanks to the existence of ski resorts, it has been possible to launch other negotiations around which give life to the region: rural tourism, sports activities, cultural tourism, heritage, natural, and even the maintenance and development of the agricultural economy, the production and sale of native quality products. In short, the CUP bets, it seems, for a touristic decrease; we do not bet for this model. In summary, we will vote in favour of points 5 and 6, which are those who speak of the better working conditions of workers and workers in the sector; we will also vote in favour of point 11, respect financial audits at ski resorts, and we will abstain from points 10 and 11a; at '11 a.s. basically for a reason: why, if these audits show that there is some type of capital responsibility, it is obvious that the same audit will be the same as the complaints, complaints, etc., but to do so now would be to prejudge that..., the presumption of guilt of the Public Administration, which, on the way in, we do not agree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.242.0	Thank you, Mr. Bruguera. The words of Mr. Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.243.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor, the motion of the UPC subsequent to the inquiry on the question before us, on the model of tourism we want for Catalonia, is a motion that is fundamentally based on the principle that I believe they have very internalized, which is tourismophobia, right? It is an absolute rejection of everything that involves productive economic activity, job creation and economic well-being. I believe, moreover, by the very content of the motion, that its model is clearly prohibitive, and not only because it is an impression of me, other parliamentary spokesmen have said so here. The pronouncements that head most of the paragraphs of the motion begin by « cancelling, « withdrawing, « establishing moratoriums, « reducing, « suppressing, « not executing, « stop promoting... Let me tell you, Mr Saladié, that I believe we must seek greater flexibility and not interfere too much with local autonomy. We therefore come to agree with most of this House that tourism must be sustainable, but not eradicated, as you claim, and much less criminalized. Moreover, it is necessary to encourage their quality and to work on innovation so that it is not exclusively seasonal, in order to give stability in employment by promoting their quality. And that does not mean deregulating, but promoting to achieve an orderly growth of the same, protecting the environment and excellence in the search for a tourism of quality and cultural, something more than strictly playful. What is foolish is to pretend to end the hen of the golden eggs of the Spanish economy and especially of the Catalan one. Blaming tourism for degrading neighborhoods or expelling people from the city, as well, to the brave, without nuances, is simplistic, unjust and irresponsible. I bring recent data: a 16_per_cent of the gross domestic product of the Spanish economy depends on the tourism sector. We've been on record for four years. And this year 2017 paints frankly well. Last year the contribution to our economy reached 125,000_million_of_euro; this year will presumably rise to 171,500_million. Last year, 75_million foreign visitors were in Spain; this year there could be 84_million tourists coming. And it is true, and that is a reality, that we are benefited by geopolitical instability, from countries such as Egypt, Tunisia and Turkey, which provokes the flow of tourists to and within Spain, within Spain, first and foremost Catalonia. Look, the sequence is as follows: 2010, 52_million tourists; 2011, 56,6; 2012, 57,7; 2013, 60; 2014, 65_million; 2015, 68_million; 2016, 75_million, and if the forecasts are met, as I said earlier, they will be 84_million in 2017, which means an increase of 40_per_hundred tourists in the last decade. And you, however, do not want any more hotels, tourist accommodation, tourist municipalities, sporting events, municipal and world events that project Catalonia and Spain in the world; you do not want the tourist rate that serves, in short, for the balanced and orderly promotion of the tourist activity; you ask to eliminate the Catalan Tourist Agency... If I may, you only need to ban the chiringuitos on the beach. That is why we have not tabled amendments to his motion, because his reductionist approaches in this matter are aimed at impoverishing and undermining Catalonia, closing the motion itself and expelling us from Europe. In the end, involution. What so many times even you recognize, almost that of returning to the tribe, right? So, do it, do it like this, and if you want to, but you alone. For that trip, most Catalans don't want to take tickets. To conclude, on the other hand, we will support the paragraphs of the motion that encourage the labour inspection – Mr. Counsellor, your responsibility – to ensure and exercise that competence they have... [[Funnel veils]] – Well, your government, isn't it? Or are you not part of the Government of the Generalitat? – to act, really, using the recourse of the labour inspection, to ensure compliance with labour regulations. It's your responsibility. They spend the day asking for skills and those who have do not exercise them. And, on the other hand, we also agree that audits should be carried out on ski resorts rescued by the Generalitat to ensure that these procedures have been carried out on a regular basis, and that political and judicial responsibilities, if any, should be clarified, but in any event provided that it is logically demonstrated that there has been some kind of irregularity. Therefore, I insist, the motion, beyond the aspects it contains that could be favorable..., in what the exercise of competences of the Generalitat corresponds to it is correct, but what you cannot do is to demonize tourism, because that goes to the detriment, as I say, of the quality of life of all Catalans. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.244.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. Then there's the word "Mr. Saladié" to pronounce on the papers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.245.0	Well, quickly. One of the points that we have been able to make – in fact, we have only talked about two, that we can reach an agreement – has continued with Juntes for the Yes, and the honourable Member has mentioned it before, so, in relation to the deepening..., to establish transparency mechanisms. It seems very important to us that before we can continue with investments that have been shown to cost a lot of money to the public administration, such as the rescue of the ski slopes, we can assess what has happened to this rescue and public management process since they were rescued. And, therefore, for what I have been listening to, so it seems that this point will have if not unanimously, almost, right? I think we'll approve for unanimity. That it's a question, say, that it shouldn't be an exception, but it should be the norm. That is to say, in itself, the public administrations should continue to age throughout that public euro that is reversed and avoid, say, that it is possible to generate situations of maladvantage of this public money. So, let's say, so, in this sense, we are happy to have been able to get to this transaction; moreover, because the compromise of..., that we urge the Government, is that it presents these results from this..., that it schedules inspections, audits, from this 2018 onwards, and that it presents the same results during this 2018. Moreover, we have also been able to deal a point with Catalonia Yes, it is possible, in the sense, therefore, that, from these results, therefore, a series of mechanisms of purification of responsibilities are implemented whenever these can be produced. And we are very happy, of course, that everyone has the understanding that the CUP as it stands, and so you said, is a decline in tourism. Some of you have gone, including, further there and you have said, therefore, almost to the "Talibans of Tourism, that we want to eradicate it. No, listen, what we want is for there to be a decrease and, as the colleague said earlier, say, Ciutadans geographer, therefore, to say that there is a rebalancing, but on the basis of some assumptions of decrease. If we bring it growing up all the way, the problem we do is multiply it. Therefore, we are already in favour of this rebalancing, but starting from a premise of decreasing. In this sense, we have not accepted either his views or most of those in Catalonia. Yes, it is possible because we are radical, we are going to the scene of the problem, and we more think that there are dramatic situations in relation to the impacts of tourism which call down measures of shock, which call for decisive actions, which must go face-to-face and which, in any case, say democracy... Social democracy already sees where it has ended its palliative measures. And if not, then, all of you who have been here exposing different proposals, some in the form of exams and others not, go and explain to all the veins that are being taken out of your homes because of the touristic floors, your measures that you have explained here. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.246.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Casamitjana, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.247.0	To ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.248.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.249.0	From points 5, 6 and 11.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.250.0	Yeah, he's already on. Thank you. Yes, Mr. Bruguera, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.251.0	Yes, also, Madam President, for a separate vote. Apart from the three points that Congresswoman Casamitjana said, also on 10th and 11th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.252.0	Yes, thank you. Mr. Santamaría, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.253.0	Yes, Madam President, to request a separate vote on items 5, 6, 11 and 11a. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.254.0	Thank you. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.255.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 10 – point 10.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.256.0	Did he? Yeah, that's it, too. Thank you. [[Pause.]] As you can see, the vote was requested separately from the following points: 2, 3, 4, 9 and 14. Can they vote together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The 2, the 3, the 4, the 9 and the 14 are able to vote together? [[Pause.]] Okay. Then, the 7th asked separately. And then he asked for another band, the 5, the 6 and the 11. Can you vote together 5, 6 and 11? [[Pause.]] And then the 10th and the 11th are able to vote together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, All right, then. We will do these votes: 10, 10a, and we will finish the first group; 7; the other group of three; 10–10 –, 11a, and after the rest of the motion. We begin by voting points 2, 3, 4, 9 and 14. The vote begins. Points 2, 3, 4, 9 and 14 were rejected by 9 votes in favour, 119 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 7. The vote begins. Point 7_has been rejected by 9 votes in favour, 110 against and 10 abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 5, 6 and 11. The vote begins. Points 5, 6 and 11 were approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 10. The vote begins. Point 10_has been rejected by 19 votes in favour, 71 against and 39 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 11th. The vote begins. Point 11 bis was rejected by 53 votes to 61, with 15 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Moció on the tourism model was rejected by 19 votes in favour, 110 against and no abstention. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into support policies for the families in question]] [[302-00156/11]] The point of the order of the day is: Motion following the question to the Government on support policies for the Nombrosian families, presented by the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.257.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies..., president of the Fanoc, who today accompanies us among the public, greet him. Well, today we are debating a young woman who has placed her focus on the more than seventy-thousand prominent families in Catalonia; many of them, almost half of them, live in a poor situation. And I'm starting here, because I think there's enough to identify the families named with wealthy families. Taxes on the poor in Catalonia have increased, especially among the single-parent families and the nombroses. And it's not that I say it, but that they say it multiple reports, like the syndic's, Caritas, Save the Children or UNICEF. And he told the councilwoman, in the interrogation, that since the government there is no firm bet for this collection. We have mechanisms that we don't deploy, and at the same time we need more resources. But it's obvious – and it's already made clear in the past plenary – that you don't believe in the name families. Unlike the People's Party, which we clearly have to bet for them is a reversal of the future, for the government to assume a burden on society. And I think, he will advise, that they are mistaken, so many from a demographic point of view com social. We are ahead of a demographic emergence, in a welfare state threatened by a lack of generational replacement. And socially, and already selfishly, have they thought who will pay the pensions of the future? In view of this inactivity on the part of the Government towards the prominent families of Catalonia, we have presented a motion that is what it does to try to give a boost to policies in this area. And one of the first requests we make is that the Catalan observer of the families named is dynamic, in the sense that this really is a space of dialogue between the different family associations, among them the Fanoc, and the Government of the Generality. That this organ, which was created more than fifteen years ago, actually serves what it is to serve and in this way we can address current family problems that are now unknown or invisible to some. We also ask in the motion that a Catalan institute of the family is on the march, with public participation but of independent character, and that, among others, is dedicated to vetting for the non-discrimination of families with more burdens. And that this institute was also responsible for preparing a report on the family impact, the impact that all Catalan families have at the time of adopting public policies that directly affect families, including, therefore, social, educational, labour or housing policies. We also ask in the motion – we asked in the initial motion – the elaboration of a law supporting the named families that complement the state, and that the Catalan Law 18/2003 is deployed. Finally, as the young man has left, for the moment we only ask the government to deploy the current Family Support Law, but what you do. And another of the important questions is that it refers to the dispatch and renewal of the notebooks of the large family titles. We're asking you to expedite the process. And how is that? So, as other autonomous communities are doing: devoting more resources and personnel to it; with an objective, it is that the beneficiaries do not lose rights due to the lack of the title. And, in this sense, as one of the rights holding the title, we ask the government to also give compliments to the state law and to the court's judgments on the application of discounts in public transportation. It turns out that Rodalies contemplates subscriptions, but precisely with this excuse does not apply those that correspond for the law to the families with the most children in charge. In this context, we also call for the completion of information campaigns in public space and communication channels on the rights of the families named, both in terms of discounts and tax benefits, regardless of whose Administration these rights are. Well, I'm running out of time... Another of the points of the motion is to ask the Government of the State that, as far as possible, and according to the presuppositional availabilities, apply the type of VAT reduced to the bowlers, because we understand that this is a product of primary need. Well, the young lady doesn't end up here, there are more points than we'll vote on, but like I'm running out of time and I don't want to miss the pocket for the rest of the parliamentary groups... There have been Ciutadans, Socialist Party, Catalonia Yes, it's Pot, the UPC; the majority have been accepted and we have been able to deal. And I want to make it clear that the dialogue and consensus to reach agreement has been the key to negotiating this proposal that we are presenting to the government today and that I hope it can be approved with as much support as possible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.258.0	Thank you, Mrs. Xandri. To defend the papers presented, has the word Mrs Elisabeth Valencia, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.259.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, good afternoon to all. We started our intervention with bad news: we have one of the highest rates of child poverty in the European Union, according to the latest UNICEF report. In addition, this report highlights the high rate of severe poverty among children and the growth of inequality. The birth rate in Spain is on the ground. Women have an average of 1.16 children per woman. Factors such as high levels of unemployment, precarious work and lack of support for work and family reconciliation policies make women increasingly delay being mothers and forming a family. In Ciutadans we are aware of this situation, and that is why we are presenting initiatives, both here and in the Congress of Deputies, to support families. Measures that we have added to this motion, such as our law of free text books, because we know that September comes and the spending of text books drowns many families. Another example is our Child Benefit Act, which is in the process of being presented and which we hope will be adopted as soon as possible. We regret that our free textbook law has been blocked by Junts for Yes. This saddens us, and more so in days like today, because we know that we have managed to pass the same law on free textbooks in the Community of Madrid, a measure that, let us remember, will save families. And the question is, why not here? Why is Junts for Yes blocking our law? Why does the Government of Catalonia prefer spending money on repeating 9 - N rather than helping families with our measure? On the other hand, commenting that the investment of education in zero to three years is a key factor and one of the most effective policies to promote equality of opportunity and social equality. And do you know what the government's response to this evidence is? Well, look, zero-euro investment in this zero-to-three-year education budget. Zero-euro investment to this extent has a multiplier effect on the economy, on women's employment and on the maintenance of the welfare state. On the last Family Support Plan, 2012-2016, the Government..., according to data from Catalan social action entities, has reduced the investment by 66_per_cent. According to the Social Economic Council, to reverse inequality, we must reduce poverty, help early childhood and implement reconciliation policies and equality policies. We have tabled amendments to the motion which they intend to make and reach agreements in order to achieve consensus and progress in social policies. With regard to the points of the motion, we agree to provide momentum l'Observatori Català de les Famílies that includes entities, both to the Fanoc..., in addition, we think that we should extend to entities of single-parent families and entities of LGTBI families. The family model is changing and we cannot turn our backs on these changes. This motion calls for a number of aid that we share, but we believe – and so we have incorporated our contributions to the motion – that we must take into account the level of proportionality in income. We cannot treat families with higher incomes as equal to those with lower incomes. From Ciutadans we have managed to reach agreement in the general budgets of the State with a package of social measures to support the middle and working class. Measures favouring Catalans, such as support for the self-employed, wage supplement for young people, which will affect 300,000 young Catalans, a plan to combat child poverty, a plan to combat school failure, and a conciliation measure as important as the increase in paternity leave, which affects thousands of Catalans. To conclude, comment that we think this Government has a lot of work to do, to correct inequalities, so we ask you to do your job, to comply with the initiatives we have adopted in this Parliament. And please do not block useful initiatives for citizens; we want progress and not social setbacks. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.260.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Valencia. Next comes the word Gabriela Serra, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.261.0	Good afternoon. This morning, Councillor Comín, when the Universalization Law of Health Care was approved, said that we were in a historic moment. I think I was right, but I think we're in a historic moment for other things. Today it will be forty years that Barcelona has celebrated the first demonstration of the day of gay pride. Today it will be forty years since that year 77, for the first time, the Front d'Allibement Gai de Catalunya carried, took hundreds of people to the street, and the FAGC was an illegal organization. [[Greetings.]] And thanks to that... – it's time, thanks – thanks to that mobilization, to that great mobilization, today we have an Observer against Homophobia, today we have an LGTBI law; today we have gay marriages, today we have lesbian couples, today we have children and girls who have gay and lesbian mothers and fathers. Therefore, I think this is an important fact and, therefore, today is a historic moment. I, in fact, wanted to have started taral· leaving the soundtrack of the Node, but I'm not, because I have because Mr. Lluís Llach makes me musically disabled. [[relays]] I, therefore, let it run. Why did you want to sing the soundtrack of the Node? Because the motion presented to us by the People's Party and the arguments that they gave to their inquiry convey the smell of Node. What do you mean? In the sense that it promotes a huge family model that personally reminds me very much of Franco's fertility accent. They speak of a family type that is patriarchal, organized around the figure of a man provider and a woman who takes care of, and with a hierarchical structure where children, the great ones are under these authorities. A family, more than that, that is perceived as a unit locked in itself, and, more than that, a unit that endures in time. And as has already been said, this type of family, today, by chance, is absolutely in crisis. Today we have different models, even though, in other words, some of the most conservative sectors of the Church and the People's Party of Catalonia continue to defend themselves. What do we find today? We are used to finding clusters of coexistence; clusters of coexistence that find people who have gone through life experiences and to share very different lives and affections, where children come from earlier unions and often with ways of temporal coexistence with parents and seas. The ideal of the man who wins the father and the woman who is at home is not true, it has not been true neither today nor ever. The ladies have always worked in and out of the house. And even we did it in adverse conditions, even in the large families of the working class and the popular sectors. Because really the nombrosian families is not a theme of riches, but it has been a theme of disadvantaged people as well. But these unfavorable women have done it in adverse conditions and in shape, sometimes, almost clandestine: we've done it at home, we've covered fish for factories, we've cleaned up offices, we've had hosts at home... And today, thanks to these working women, thanks to this effort that has been made, we have some nets, we have some girls who can choose and decide how to regulate their fertility. All that said, having children is a personal option, which must not be gratified or encouraged as such. However, we agree, when a person or people decide to have children, it is important that they enjoy the laws that protect this right, that they support it and the necessary resources. But that's one thing and the birth policies that the PP sets up, that they have as subject this so-called family..., and maybe they're not thinking about all the families. I mean, we've presented a thought we'd like to include in this major... in this observatories, necessary, that there are, different associations. And we have proposed that the Association of Single Parent Families be included, precisely. But on the other hand, it is not accepted that lesbian and gay families, that they are also families, that they are recognizable, that they are legal and that they have all the right. We choose to use aids and supports and Vaginal benefits directly to promote the development of people, for example: a child in a vulnerable situation is to be paid the benefit that he or she does not need to go through for monetary remuneration, but for access to certain goods and services. We believe that, as each time they are much more..., they take the form of community creations – I know that someone will think: "The tribes, yes, tribes, community tribes, we said it a long time ago–, these community creations understand that it is the model to promote. And we understand that you need to develop it and that you need to encourage it. Why? Because there are forms and coexistences of life between great, intergenerational people, one preserves the capacity and take decisions. And, finally, we don't think it's possible to use the family or the defense of the large family to ask for help in acquiring habitat. The right that we defend is the right to enjoy a decent habitat, and this does not happen to promote the purchase of habitats, which continue to feel more and more, privileges of a very small circle of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.262.0	Thank you, Mrs Serra. The words of Mr Raúl Moreno of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.263.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Constellera Bassa, talk about Nombrosian families, family policies. Our parliamentary group has always defended the need to have family policies in all their diversity – heterosexual, homosexual, single-parent, nombrosian, and even there may be nombrosian single-marital families. I mean, there's a good bunch of family opportunities. And, therefore, what we must try to do, rather than guarantee the rights of each of these collections, is to guarantee the rights of the family as such, that they have the resources necessary to keep their life plan. First, guaranteeing the rights of the children who are part of it, in relation to access to public services, to their education in a future; also of the great people who can live in this family nucleus, and generally guaranteeing family returns. Therefore, that determining is whether or not they have sufficient resources to develop their life plan. Certainly, Mrs. Xandri, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, don't threaten us with pension issues, huh? Don't tell us how we need to pay the pensions of the future the families we're called on to do very well. The main enemies of the pensions of the future are you, who have emptied the pension box. [[Widow's remorse.]] These are the main enemies of future pensions and we will have to look for another way to pay them if you continue with your policy. That said, I also want to say a few things, to which we will vote against, from this young man. The first is that they are specialists in putting us on the ground that they know us on the ground. They were proposing a new Catalan family institute and having the Catalan Family Observer what they did, and was also proposed by the PSC, is that single-parent families can also be there. And end up and get this observer to have the plurality of families that exist in our country. And, therefore, I don't ride a new institute. This observer can also do the work, in addition, that entrusts this young man: the preparation of a consultative report on the family in Catalonia. The theme of housing. We all come from different realities here. I believe that Mrs Serra and I, who come from the same city, would remember, and many of you, as well as five families, six members lived on floors of sixty, seventy, eighty_metres_squares and that did not necessarily mean that they had problems in their education and development. Even someone got to be a congressman. So, it's not a matter of meters. And, therefore, book flats for prominent families in public and private promotions – which is what was sitting here – we, of course, would not vote in favour of this. There are also other issues. We will abstain on a subject that has to do with guaranteeing the rights of families to school material. We believe that all the..., all the facilities must be carried out because the boys and girls, the children and young people of our country can access the teaching with conditions of equality and gratuity. That's right, with school books reuse systems, which the tripartite government has already proposed and which we believe if we put them on the market, then this would be a very important tool for families; this is an important country project. The rest of this young man's initiatives seem to us to be positive for what he does to, therefore, demand reduced VAT on the subject of the Bolsheviks. Also in some of the discounts they have to look at with the water price, even though on the water issue there are already some initiatives that bring to an end some companies that are just dedicated to the families of the people, or, to families that do not follow..., let's say, to family nuclei, to homes, to homes, where there are a significant number of people, and therefore there are ad hoc rates for this topic. We have other points that we think are very good. But, in short, with the minute I have left... At the beginning of this young man was proposed the creation of another law. And I think we need to make every effort to develop what we already have. In this case, we have a law from the year 2003 that still needs to be developed, the Family Law, which needs to be provided with a presupposition. Therefore, we do not need to make new laws, but we need to complete and develop those of which this Parliament has already been endowed. And finally, then, we would like, yes, that this government was, as it was for many years, present at the Hall of Nombrosian Families, even at its inauguration. Not many years ago, some of the first acts I did was accompany at that time the lady mountain, so, at the opening of that hall, and Mrs. Xandri came – we met there. So, that the Generalitat continued..., returned to having, in any case, presence in this salon. All our support also to Fanoc, thank them for their work for which you have to see with the contents of this young man. And we'll be at the side of all the families with the members that we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.264.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. The words of Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.265.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members of Parliament, said to Congresswoman Xandri in plenary that the Government of the Generality has the collection of named families left out of God's hand and that, despite the fact that we have often spoken of social exclusion, we have never put the focus – I quote literally – "in a collection that we really care about. Mrs Xandri, my group is concerned about all the families, all of them: names, single parents, LGBTI, with disabled children or girls... All of them, we are concerned, and especially those who live in a situation of risk of social exclusion. Single-parent families are mostly single-parent families, since three of every four families are formed by a mother and her creatures. Single-maritime families have a higher probability of being vulnerable, and it is that unmatched women, with children under six years of age, have a higher probability of being stuck or having temporary contracts. I would like to remind you that it was Mr Rajoy's government, assisted by the former Convergence and Union, which, in 2012, with the amendment of Article 41, gave companies unilateral capacity to modify substantial working conditions, and forced workers and workers to accept unfinished or fragmented working days and incompatible with conciliation. Remind Mr. Rajoy that it would be worth reversing labor reform, improving contracts, improving wages, and he will see how all this will affect the payment of pensions and it will not be necessary for families to have children for this reason. At the end of May, the Synod of Greuges asked the Generality to guarantee to single-parent families the same positive discrimination measures that apply to the names, since it had detected a privileged treatment of the names respect the single-parents in areas such as transport and basic sub-administrations. On the other hand, I would also like to point out to him the difficulties that families have with disabled children or girls, and I would like to remind him that the Dissatisfied Opinion of the Observer of the Dependency in Catalonia gives some shady data, largely attributable to the covert derogation of the Law of Dependency, or still, attributable to his party, a Member. Only the year 2016, Catalonia has dropped €84.6 million for dependency. The system of dependence in Catalonia has been paralyzed since July 2012. 2016 was one of the two communities that went back on loan services. The People's Party has left this collection, these families, out of hand, without this saying that we are rid of the Government of the Generality for the part of responsibility that surrounds it. In short, honourable Member, our group does not want to focus on a family type, and less on the Nombroese families; having a large family is an option, not an obligation. We want to focus on those families with children who have depopulated 4.5 times the rest during the crisis, according to a report by Save the Children. In concrete terms, the study concludes that between 2008 and 2015 the income of the poorest families – 20_per_cent – fell by 31_per_cent. In his speech to the plenary he also referred to the fall of birth; certain. The birth rate went up from 98 to 2008, a few economic booms, to start falling from 2009, with the outbreak of the crisis, and to reach a very low figure in 2012 that leads the country to a reversal of the population pyramid. According to scholars of the subject, such as the mathematics Maria Pazos, the countries that have states of the solid welfare, with public services that work and with public policies that favor to make the motherhood compatible with the occupation to the labor market, they achieve much higher taxes and above all – and above all – stable. I mean, they're countries that worry, not some kind of family, but everyone, and not just for a while, but always, constantly. I'll explain it to you if you want to explain it to Mr. Rajoy and they can do something about it. For all that I have just said, we think that the young lady, as she was, after Congresswoman Xandri accepted the papers – which we appreciate – responds much more to our idea of getting old for the rights of all the families in a vulnerable situation. We shall vote in favour of the motion, except for points 2 and 6, for which I shall take the opportunity to request a separate vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.266.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. The words of Mr. David Rodríguez, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.267.0	Well, thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, well, despite the good will and predisposition of the proposed Member, we find ourselves with a young person who has taken us to a nineteenth-century view of the concept of family. And it is not by chance that the Department of Families is saying precisely so, "Families in plural, in response to the Catalan social reality of today, also for what it does to the diversity of these. For this reason, we don't feel comfortable with the hope that this is happening, and for this reason, among other things, it was truly difficult for us to develop papers. We would not have to plant so many, to present so many, that I think we would have distorted the sense of the original motion; therefore we did not introduce ourselves. It's a lot for the family conception that he's been passing on, and with some of the papers he's presented, so it's got better. But also for a question of priorities. At a time of economic difficulties and expenditure control, we must give high priority to efforts and resources. The question is, do you want to help families by being appointed or do you want to help families by having difficulties? And we are clear that we need to help families that have difficulties, apart from being a political objective that I think we should share all groups and that is one of the great challenges of economic theory, therefore, to reduce inequality in the distribution of income. And precisely because of this, therefore, the fact of being a large family does not bring us to this need. A follow-up of questions is being planted in the House, many of which are already due to the government. The Fanoc, for example, is already part of the Catalan Observers of the Family. The large family booklet already includes a follow-up of measures and benefits in the field of education. The ACA has different bonuses on the water canon or extension of the trams based on the number of people that make up the living unit. Decree 139/2010, on benefits to single-parent and appointed families in the price of public transport, compliments the law regulating these precisely. We cannot agree with the obligation to allocate in all official protection promotions a number of habitats to the named families, because this could result in a lack of correlation between the offer and the actual demand, which makes the habitats not ultimately intended for these types of families. Nor can we agree with the creation of universal help. Precisely we are about to pull forward the guaranteed income of citizenship, that one of its objectives is to compact the more than one hundred and seventy performances that exist in Catalonia. And a guaranteed income of citizenship that is conceived as a subjective right but is also conceived as a specific help to families, as a basic social institution. And finally we do not believe in the need to create new institutes. We need to know how to take advantage of the tools we already have, like Ivàlua, the Catalan Institute for the Evaluation of Public Policies, which already prepares reports on family policies in Catalonia. Also, the participation of the different entities and local authorities is already guaranteed in the third family platform 2017-2020, which will be presented in the next weeks and which will reduce the diversity of families in Catalonia and which will be a support tool for families, also from local administrations. We would ask the PP that if it wants to help families, then it has possibilities to do so and it can modify the Family Law or the history circular of 2016, because this law, this circular, really helps. At these times, on the basis of this law, these circulars are refusing, in cases of divorce or of reconstituted families, family cards to families having three children on the basis of this article 3.3 of the law, which says that a child cannot be in two books and which causes difficulty attached to these families. The current law does not collect the nomadic families: it collects the nomadic high-income families with unseparated couples and children without Germanastres. For all these reasons and for consistency with the model of different families that exist in our country, we will vote against most points of this motion. Many thanks, president, deputies and deputies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.268.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.269.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, MPs, MPs... Well, look, the People's Party is of interest to all families, it's obvious that we are all interested, but today we're talking about the Nombro families, the same way that other times it's about single-parent families or LGTBI families, which sounds very good to us, but what you're doing here is missing a collection, which is the collection of Nombro families, and there's about seventy thousand in Catalonia! [[Greetings.]] I mean, be a little coherent. I mean, families, all right, but all families. Well, I wanted to thank you, didn't I? Once again, the contributions of girls to the different groups, except for Junts for the Yes, which, therefore, remained on the margin – remained on the margin, has already been explained by the Member – and I know hard, huh? I know it's hard, the truth, because together for Yes it's a game where, I understand, there's a lot of sensitivities, and it's hard to hear that you haven't made a single dream or made a single deal with a game where, I say, I think there's a lot of sensitivities about respect. We will continue to bet on the nombrosian families, we are very clear, even though some talk about Nodo or... I don't know, prehistory. Look, I have four kids and I don't... I think I'm a very current, 21st-century person, and I don't have any kind of problem. I repeat: thank all the papers presented. And I'd also like to give the councillor a treat, in conclusion, that I did it on the day of the inquiry, and it is that we would like her, counsel, that her department, that her councillor is present at the Hall of Nombrosian Families of Catalonia, that will be celebrated on November 4th and 5th in Montjuïc and that they have done during these three years. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.270.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. Deputy Germà Gordó wants to explain the sentiment of his vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.271.0	Thank you very much, President. Just to say that I will vote in favour of most points of this motion, and I will do so for various reasons. One, for the right of choice that everyone has to sort out the family they want, also to have a large family. The second reason, because it is justice, therefore, to protect those families that may have the most risks, and it is obvious that one of the types of families that may have the most risks, especially in times of crisis, are the families that are named. And third, because it has to be said that, certainly, the families of the people are a wealth for any country; this is said by several studies, not by the Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, but by various socio-economic studies that explain this in this sense. And, finally, any proposal to protect the family will always have my vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.272.0	Thank you, Mr. Gordo. We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.273.0	For a separate vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.274.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.275.0	For a band, points 2 and 6...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.276.0	Yes, they had already asked.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.277.0	Okay. I for the other, the 9th. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.278.0	Thank you. Lady Serra, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.279.0	For a separate vote of '1a, 4, 9 and 10, for one band, and for the other, of 3, 5, 8, 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.280.0	Thank you. Two, six, Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.281.0	Yeah, for a separate vote on points 1, 1 bis, 10, 11, and that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.282.0	You see, a separate vote has been requested for a band from points 2, 6. Can you vote together, points 2, 6? [[Pause.]] Subsequently, a separate vote was requested from points 1a, 4, 9 and 10. Can they vote together? [[Pause.]] No, no, Okay. Can we vote together on the 4th and 9th? [[Pause.]] Neither... there they say neither. All right. And we can vote together..., see, the 3, the 5, the 8 and the 11? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, The 3, the 5 and the 8, yes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Neither? Fantastic! [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Three, five and eight can be voted together? [[Pause.]] These are, all right. Well, we'll try to do those votes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, come on, so let's start voting. The vote begins. We'll vote for point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been adopted by 61 votes to 9, with 58 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 1-a-point. The vote begins. Point 1a was approved by 129 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will then vote on point 2.6 – 2.6. The vote begins. The 2.6_point was rejected by 10 votes to 87, with 31 abstentions. Then we will vote point number 4 – point 4. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 70 votes to 59, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 3, 5 and 8. The vote begins. Points were approved by 61 votes to 59, with 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 9. The vote begins. Point 9_has been rejected by 54 votes to 60, with 15 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 10. The vote begins. Point 10_has been approved by 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 11. The vote begins. Point 11_has been approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Movement on Support Policies for Nombrosian Families has been rejected by 61 votes in favour and 68 against. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the protection of childhood and adolescence]] [[302-00160/11]] The agenda item is: Motion following the question to the Government on the protection of children and adolescents, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, Ms. Laura Vílchez has the word. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, if you'll just come out and be quiet. Thank you. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Quiet, and please. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Vílchez, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.283.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillors. These days, while we were preparing the inquiry, while we drafted the motion and while we were negotiating the papers, we were able to speak with a lot of people; a lot of people for whom the situation of protected childhood represents their day by day. That is why we are particularly pleased with the wording we are presenting today as the proposal for better, because, above all, what is constructive and why we have worked as we know best, which is listening, colza to rape, with the people who know, with the people who feel it, with the people who see it. We have worked hard to find consensus; the consensus that in us all groups and the government always find in childhood matters, so as to complement the work that has been done since the opposition throughout the legislature. This motion calls for commitments that we believe are easily accepted for the opposition and for the government, because the main objective has been to put date and detail to the announcement made by the government in the matter of childhood. We want to make clear, with this young man, the level of commitment of the Administration. While we were working, we all came to the conclusion that the situation of the protection system in Catalonia is unsustainable. We find it very difficult to understand how the harmful management that is being carried out by the Directorate-General for Children and Adolescents is allowed. Counselor, when are you planning to start asking for responsibilities? We are not talking now, because we are already doing so, about a director-general over whom the shadow of suspicion of corruption flies in bidding for the management of residential centres, because for this topic we have managed two days ago, according to the intention, that the Commission for Children will approve the appearance of the director-general, and I can announce them already, that we have asked the Bureau that this appearance can already be substantiated at the next session of the Commission for Children. Moreover, we have asked the consignors of tenders from some residential centres so that we can form our own appreciation on the subject, so that, for the time being, we do not know that legal proceedings have taken place. But, as we say, beyond that, what we really care about is the quality of life and the quality of protection that infants and foster children have; that, above all. How can the council be allowed the conditions in which children who have their guardianship, who are under their responsibility, after having taken them away from their home to offer them, in theory, the protection they did not have? How can anyone understand that this protection goes through carrying infants and young people at risk to saturated centers to sleep with a bush on the ground? How can anyone understand that this protection steps because children, including babies, convise with adolescents with behavioral problems? How can anyone understand that educators are not given the tools so that they can lower the anxiety of cohabitation from many centers, to lower even the attacks? No one, no one can. No one can hear how he's not acting, he's been in emergency before this situation. Your announcements... – the shock plans, the five-foot plans, the mental health plans of Mr. Comín, the protocols – today – can take the date of implementation with this young man. And if it weren't for that, we'd know, we'd know, that this government was going to "light with its announcements." It will then be when we take the actions that we consider appropriate to be this course of deproposals. From here I want to ask the councillor not to tell us that we do not appreciate the work of the professionals, because, unlike this Government, apart from thanking them with words from this Faristol, we thank them in person, they take a coffee, working at the office for WhatsApp, by mail..., because our initials work with them – with them – giving you precisely to their demands; claims of professionals from many different backgrounds, with proper names, who have wanted to bring the best they have learned, professionals like Mònica, David, Carlos, Manel, Ernesto, Miguel, Juan and my companion Elisabeth Valencia. This is why we are presenting an accelerator of the actions of the Government, of which we only have, today, the announcement. We want very concrete actions – we want more educators, we want them, we want children's homes as a priority model of prevention – and we want them now. We want audits, too, for the bidding process. We want planning, training and support for both the infants and the professionals who have to take care of them. Today, if you're doing the responsibility exercise that you'd like to do, as we've always done in any small or big protection adventure, it could be a big day today. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.284.0	Thank you, Mrs. Vílchez. To defend the papers presented, has the word Ms Montserrat Vilella, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.285.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Councillor, Members and Members, today we are presented with a motion, the Ciutadans Group – and have already presented some others – to improve the system of protection in the childhood that we have endowed ourselves in this country. And we appreciate it, because that's fine, and we all share the point. And to all these petitions that you certainly did all the deputies we can add. What happens is that then, if we look at what he's proposing in this young man, we see a lot, a lot of points, but what we see is that there's little new that we've talked about in previous motions. We've made a lot of transactions. We shall vote that yes in a few points, we shall vote that no, we shall abstain, as it seems to me that they will also do the rest of the groups, because there really are a lot of points, but..., what I said, of contributions, seems to me that, from nine to a few. We will vote that it is in transactions that we have made – in fact, it has been easy; it is easy to work with you, Mrs Vílchez, and for that reason, therefore, we also appreciate it – in transactions in which we really sought to adjust those commitments that the Government has already made and has already explained both at the level of communication media as well as in this Parliament, and also previous parliamentary agreements. And so we're talking about giving support for what it does to the increase in rates, to the children's home – that the counselor has been explaining territorially, so, that it will be implemented as the best of the services that are offered – to the therapeutic unit, to the general attention that it is offered in mental health because it is really a key and basic point and that is already contemplated in the comprehensive mental health plan, because really, therefore, they are infants and young people who need a lot of attention in this sense. But we will also have to abstain at some point, such as, for example, in the new place; a point which, by the way, had already been worked in this Parliament. We agree, there has been the presentation and the government's agreement and commitment to create these new centres and these new places, but not all of us. And, as it is written – and they do not accept us – we cannot support it, because then, if it is not complete, as it cannot be completed, you will recriminate it. Therefore, we cannot give support to the writings that you make, because of these three-hundred and lack of places, that the Government has already compromised that there would be more, one hundred are not nine, one hundred are places that are already there, that are free, because these infants would go to another recourse as is a familiar welcome. Therefore, if we are to be strict, we cannot accept this point. Nor can we accept it, because we understand that, as it is written... – it is a theme presented to them by the CUP – as it is presented, therefore, it goes so far as to say that there are centers that do not fill in a concrete article. We think this isn't so, if it's always been better. And neither do we, because we understand that the public places in the center are public places beyond who offers the same service. At points 3 and 4 of the motion we have not presented nor can we accept them, because they just have to see what we approved in this Parliament in the month of February, with a motion from Catalonia Yes, it is possible that we have a working group to reformulate, to rethink what the model of attention is. And a CUP movement where we had a surveillance team just to look at the quality of life of these children, a surveillance team. So, if we've already woken up the month of fever, what we can't do right now is say that what we said we're going to do now is do it another way. Therefore, we believe that this is not logical and that it does not help us. Nor will we support them in the proposal – this was a new proposal – to make an improvement of the IRPF to the host families. But, of course, you're telling us that we're doing this on the autonomous tram. See, they're hoping that on October 1st, and then we'll have this power to manage the entire IRPF in this country. As this is not the case, we understand that this must be in the part of the state IRPF; not in the autonomics, but in the state. So we won't give it any support. In any case, what we ask is respect for the agreements of this plenary; if we approve one thing in the month of fever, we will not present it again in another way, in another way in order to be able..., because, if not, in the end we will not know what we have granted and what we have to do. And we also ask him, and we ask all the questions, that in order to try to improve the service, we do not use these catastrophic words of "unsustainable system, " bad..., because this can wear down the government, you do have to see that the government has to be able to explain that this is not so, but in any case it also impacts the infants. And lastly – lastly – just because we have to say nice things, congratulate the TV3 team for the normal people program that it gave opportunity, with witnesses of adults who have suffered abuse, that we can see at the social level and we can actually have a social transformation, that we can still see that abuses exist, that they have a brutal impact on people and that all the folds we have to make agents of this protection. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.286.0	Thank you, Mrs. Villa. Next comes the word Gabriela Serra, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.287.0	Well, smooth and short... Laura, where are you? [[Pause.]] Ah! Thank you. I mean, you know I don't... we'll abstain from most of your youth. We will vote in favour of a few points for different motius, which, if it gives time, I will explain quickly. Now, clear up two things. First, thank you for the effort you've made. I mean, your concern about the issue of childhood and child care is something that is clear to us. And, therefore, you know very well that most of the questions you are raising are largely shared. Now, she's a young lady who, with the good sense of the word, is like an encyclopedia, huh? I mean, because it's all barred, different levels of importance, different levels of execution, and even different levels of problem. Say that, what do I mean? I mean, I think your demand to demand the compliment of motions that are approved – in ugly way before Junts' companion for the Yes, right? – of the motions submitted by Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, the last motion that we also presented the CUP - Constituent Creed and others that you had not presented..., I mean that we know that the list of incompliments is great and that the list..., not only of incompliments, but of compliments that do not respond to what has been approved sometimes. We're clear about that, aren't we? It is true that you also set up and here you set up the development of a series of laws that already exist, that what is not devolved or financed, and that is something that, as it is already approved, what we need to do is demand. I think that one day we would have to make a motion for a resolution, or a motion, or an inquiry, as I say, to say: "We demand the compliment of..., and put all that has not been fulfilled. But that's exactly what we want the working group on the child protection system to do, because this working group on the child protection system is going to study, audit, or go on, a series of proposals and tasks that you have to get rid of here. Okay? So, I... I deeply appreciate that you've accepted most of our papers almost in their literality, I mean, and that's nice, isn't it? Therefore, we will vote in favour of point 5, we will vote in favour of point 6, we will vote in favour of point 7, we will vote in favour of point 9, of 9b and of 9c, which we have finally also been able to negotiate, right? I'm insisting, and I want you to be clear, maybe we wouldn't agree? In some of the transactions we've made that give us little satisfaction. So, you didn't seem right to accept the percentage of 50_per_cent, as at least, of public centers. We will always have this problem in many of our transactions, in our clear option for the public childcare system, and, in change, you who want to match this with externalizations and third-partyizations, but fine. However, we are satisfied that you have accepted the papers, specifically point 6, regarding the control of the contracting criteria for children's homes, because we know that it is a topic that concerns us, it is a topic that we believe and share that its execution is not being carried out in some cases; we would talk about Girona again, possibly, etc., right? As we also appreciate that you have taken the 9b point and the c point, which you have a lot to see with all the guarantees we put in for attention; all the guarantees that... and we return to the same, of compliments of aspects that are already approved but that are not developed. I think, I insist, at those points we can... And forgive me, and one last observation is: at point 12, to "territorially homogenize the conditions of the agents, here we have a problem, because the EAIAs are delegated to the municipality and to the regional councils, and therefore each administration has the right to organise its operation whenever it complies with the criteria and technical guidelines of the DGAIA, huh? Therefore, at this point we will also abstain. But he did want to do this math, didn't he? I mean, here it is, there could be a shock of certainly competitions that have different administrations. That said, I insist, I know that in the working group we will work on it, among other things, because the Gema Lienas will be feroted and determined to do so, and he will find us at his side to pull all this forward. "Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.288.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. The words of Mr Raúl Moreno of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.289.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, Councillors, we speak again of families, of protection to childhood, an important issue, and, in fact, said to the lady Serra, the deputy Serra, we spoke a short time ago, a few months ago, I believe that extensively and deeply of our system of protection to childhood. And I must say, Mrs. Vílchez, that – I have already said well, by the way, "Mr. Vílchez –, that the first version of your young lady had a lot to see with that, didn't she? , and he was actually playing a lot of different themes. And I think that, with all the contributions together for the Yes as well as the CUP, this young man was able to go hostage and grab, so, a much more interesting thing, right? Therefore, we appreciate your ability to agree, including to talk to those we have not considered, but we have also contributed somehow to the final text, have we not? We agree with the assembly of the young man, with some exceptions, and I will tell him the most outstanding. The theme of the audience. We in the previous motion approved by this Parliament insisted very much on the need for an audit. Finally, the social welfare council – Work, social welfare and families – set up a working group, as that young man did, and we attended all the representatives, and we said three things that I think mark a little that we decided among all of us, and it is: first, we go to a session to know what model we have, because we all have a little picture of the model we have to protect; secondly, from this model, we define whether it is necessary to make an audit – I think it is, that we have to do – and, once we have the result of the audit, we see who are the aspects that we need to change. I guess that's the most logical thing, huh? So, at your point in the audience, which I agree with, there's the final part that, you know, and we commented, we didn't agree. And it is that those workers of the DGAIA, of the CRAE, of the CREI, are part of the audience team, because we consider that he judges and shares, let's say, would not give us a sufficiently objective audit, for everyone, even for the same department, at the time of analyzing which is the real situation. And I agree, because we also put forward a motion for a resolution, that these professionals, who are professionals of an advanced age, from the point of view of the profession, over fifty years, may have other alternatives, may have other places of work..., that maybe this isn't the best, huh? I think we need to work it out. But this wouldn't be just the place where I'd put them so I could have this more objective analysis. About quality standards, we'd expect this audit. As much as you're talking about quality standards... we need to see what our system needs, don't we? For another band, there are a few points to vote in favour. On the theme of Sini @, it has finally remained to push the app. I think the problem is not so much of the application, it's better, as if the professionals have time to enter the data that allows us to exploit the results of Sini @. It has been inserted, and we will finally vote in favour. I mean, at this point, I think, in the end, it turned out fine. But we have this difficulty; not just with Sini @, huh? In general, with the data bases of our professionals, who, many times, for the work they have, therefore, do not have time because after us, as the administration, we can exploit all the data that it takes. Another time we will vote in favour of updating the Social Service Portfolio. This time, this time, to expand the ration. Let's see if this time, because I don't know if I'm saying to my hand, if that's... what we're wearing from the legislature, this congressman... And I know that in previous legislatures this has already been called for. Maybe it would be cool to set a date when we open the serving cart. It's that, besides, the group that gives the government a raise also approves it. Therefore, caldria, even more to approve, to do so. And this is already a subject of the Service Portfolio that we talked about and it's already beginning to be urgent, because it's not sustainable to vote for and then stop doing it. The integral care plan for people with mental disorders; the papers have improved the text; the plan already exists, but it is not complete, eh? It's also very indeterminate, from the point of view of time. The same goes for the Plate of mental salvation and addictions; good plan; it must improve the training of professionals, it must ensure that anyone, visqui where visqui, can have access to the service, but effectively is not carried out as marked by the plan. We will vote in favour of residential centers, however cautiously, because as the last hour has already added up to nine additions to these points of the two hundred..., places of CRAE, CREI, etc.; point 9, 9.b, later appeared on 9.c. Let's see if we're clear, that's to say, and that's a question I'd ask the government more clearly. Are they centers us yes or no? Looks like it's not. If they're who they are, what do we do? We divide them for half and two, yes or no? They're new seats, yes or no? If there are three-hundred new places in CRAE..., we know that no, because there are one hundred that are given to the host; therefore, there are two-hundred more, there are not three-hundred, it is to say... Please, to see if anyone is acclaiming, explain it to us well. Counselor, one day, you will explain it to us delighted, I am sure, to your committee, to our committee of social welfare. But while we are voting for it because we cannot do it any other way, we would like more concrete action on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.290.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. The words of Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.291.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, MPs, MPs, I'm sure you know the case of a bunch of cucuts that put the eggs into the nests of other species, so that their breeds are fed by alien peers. The nest of the cub grows faster and up a moment when it does out of the nest others, which are rightly close. Espavilatos, cucutos; with the least effort they make the most profit. From this relationship one goes, in biology, "parasiteism. I do not intend to do a dissertation on zoology because it is not my specialty or this is the place, but I needed to express in a graphic way the fatigue that many of the initiatives that Ciutadans presents to me; initiatives of sometimes opportunistic, sometimes copies of others that have already presented themselves and sometimes so general that they have an insignificant effect. They are often initiative that it is impossible not to vote in favour. I suppose that's what this is about, to allow Citizens to get to the object that you have to fix monthly per Member. This today is of this kind and, therefore, seems to me to be totally repetitive in many of the requests that have already been voted on. My group already denounced in July the situation of childlessness and youthlessness, and again denounced it in March, when the UPC also did so. We think you need a review of the system. For us it has two vessants that would be able to treat differently. U, the urgent and punctual problems caused, for example, by the extraordinary influx of unaccompanied young people; and two, structural problems, the list of which is very long. For example, insufficiently helps families in the territory, both for what it does to material aspects and for what it does to parental skills. Insufficient guarantees for families, which often, in a disempowerment of creatures, are found unprotected and lack of resources before the Administration. Lack of attention to what children and young people say; it does not listen enough nor does it do enough good. Centres that do not respond to models that are suitable for these creatures to grow around as much as possible to a family. Professionals saturated with little social recognition, with precarious wages, in unacceptable working conditions. Lack of data to assess whether DGAIA is doing well to protect these creatures who declare themselves unselfish. We betray them from home to take them away, we take them away? What educators and social educators say is not very shabby. Creatures that have disembarked because they suffer physical and sexual abuse, or sexual abuse, and that re-enter the center; creatures that escape because they have not been able to create a link with educators, not because educators do not want to, but because the times they have and the urgent problems that have to solve them make it impossible. We also don't know what's going on with these guys and girls when they're split years and they're just gonna blow themselves up. We don't know which studies they have, if they fit in well professionally, if they manage to have an autonomous and healthy life. In short, we do not know if the Administration has protected them better than the biological family would have done. For all these reasons, we asked for a joint government-parliament working group in the last place, with the presence of civil society as well: entities, professional colleges, trade unions, specialists... Deputy Moreno explained very well how it was decided to organize the time. At all events, I would like to point out that I have requested that civil society be convened at these meetings. Perhaps in this one that is not in time; moreover, it is an informative session, so perhaps it is not urgent, but I do hope that this anomaly will soon be resolved and that we also have a calendar of meetings. Votes are ungrateful, because many points have already been voted in other places. Unfortunately, therefore, if we vote yes, we already vote on an approved thing, but if we vote not or abstain, also badly, because there are points in which we do not disagree. The truth is, it's complicated. It's the one with the parasitism. To vote in favour, as I have already said, some points, and others not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.292.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. Next is the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.293.0	Ladies and gentlemen, the President, the Honourable President, the Honourable Councillor..., mirin, I must admit that this subject overcomes me, that is, overcomes me, and I have the feeling that the Government too. But he's running away from me. I mean, it's a subject that seems enormously complicated to me, and knowing the exact problem and the solution seems very difficult to me. I feel many contrasting voices, saying different things. She's also running away from me because she's appeared now and because she's appeared in so many communication media. I mean, there's a lot of things that get away from me. It is clear that there is a problem, it is clear that there are shortcomings, and what is not so clear is what we have to do, because we have contradictions and, fixed's, is that I, when I arrived in Parliament, four years ago, do not know how many legislatures because we are already going to Italian, here, but four years ago the DGAIA was the crown jewel, and here it is day after day also that the Catalan law of childhood and adolescence was, let us say, the model of success, the vanguard of Europe, pioneers all of Spain. And now, in four years, it's totally the opposite. That's to say, it seems that the general direction is overflowing, that the law is a disaster, that the DGAIA is a dust... This could bring us to some reflection on the gloria step the fang or how things change in a day, right? But it's very surprising to me, this, and it seems to me that what we have to do is, well, study and, therefore, gather this commission and work hard, listen to all the views, listen to all the people, listen to the directors of DGAIA, listen to civil society, which now has Gemma Lienas, listen to everyone and, therefore, come to a discernment and decide. They are a very complicated, complicated, and easily flammable theme – it's very flammable – I think we've all been careful, and whatever, let's say it's excessive, reckless, could light up the spark of indignation and, listen, here are the very deep, sacred or natural family feelings involved, like..., speech rights, personal problems and communities, labor rights..., I mean, there's a great complication here. But it's true that things have happened, many things, these past months, and when a search, you say, is spectacular. There have been reports of families, there have been reports to the press, and above all to the progressive press, because, I don't know, from the Newspaper to the public, a lot of insistence on this subject, when it was an approved law for the tripartite, which we are developing, and which in principle was the most progressive laws in Europe. Editorials at the press, court hearings against the DGAIA, dismantling criminal networks that had used and captured child wards, an increase in assaults that have denounced all the unions, job losses for these attacks, overoccupancy of centres, unaccompanied minors coming and coming, barrage of different problematic profiles between the centers, photographs filtered to the press of children sleeping on the ground at the care center, attacks between children, complaints of the unions, complaints of the CGT – very hard–, shadows of suspicion about the..., well, I say, what have they posed, huh? I don't think there's anything there, but they've put themselves on the table of shadows of suspicion on the DGAIA. Unlawful Enrichment... That is to say, there is a very difficult problem here, we have to see, counsel, we have to listen to all the views; this young man went on the line of some things that they have common sense, which is to determine for the regulation the standards of quality, to give major personality and to give major teaching to tutors, to expand the reports, also to help families with a downside of the IRPF, and it doesn't need to be independent to do it, listen to me, we don't stay here any more things. In any case, it's the fourth place that votes on this matter, the fourth place. I think that... I also know that they like us very much. We want to vote and all that, but more than that, what we have to do is sit down one time, summon all the agents involved, listen and make bold decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.294.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Next, Ms. Laura Vílchez has the word, to pronounce herself on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.295.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, thank the Juntes groups for the Yes and the CUP to make the effort to present their reviews, ensuring that we have also made the efforts to incorporate them practically all. That's what they said. Our first intention – I think I explained it to the inquiry, I explained it to you today another time – our first intention was not to invent anything that is not invented. Mrs. Lienas, I'm explaining it to you. It was not intended– it was not intended– to invent anything. To the question I commented that our intention was to give..., one of the things we wanted to do was, of things that had been approved, of government announcements, what we wanted was to calendarize; calendarize and pose by writing the level of government compromise. The one we wanted, the one I explained to him, so as to prove that the government did not go from "light on all these announcements when it answered the questions that my group put to it in the House. I'd also like to comment on the subject of what you say..., things that were already approved. Do you know who was the first group to speak of childhood in this Parliament? It was Ciutadans; motion 1/XI. Do you know who was the first group to talk about foster care? Citizens. Do you know what was approved in that May 2016 motion? The three-hundred nine seats – the three-hundred nine seats – that we put in again today, another time we put in again, ours, we put in again to vote because they are more necessary than ever. Do you know who got to approve this audit you're talking about, saying it's coming out to your young lady? Ciutadans, to the General Policy Plenary. Second of all, that's why, huh? 'Cause the first young lady's out. Still, we voted in favour of yours, your young lady. So, who's the parasite? [[Greetings.]] But if I'm running out of time, I don't want to leave this whole thing with me. Satisfied, we are satisfied with the work done, because the intention of everyone who has worked on this young man has continued to bring the best – the best – that we knew to try, constructively, that the protection system in Catalonia, apart from being a punishment for those who see it, stopped giving bad news as well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.296.0	Mrs. Vílchez, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.297.0	Well, that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.298.0	He knows hard, but... [[Greetings.]] Thank you, Mrs. Vílchez. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Sanchez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.299.0	Yes; forgive me, President, that I have forgotten before. To ask for a separate vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.300.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.301.0	...of point 3, and of point 9.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.302.0	Can they vote together? [[Pause.]] Don't you? Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.303.0	Separate votes, too, president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.304.0	Yes, say so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.305.0	For a band, 2, 3, 4, 10 and 11. No, for a band and only for that band. [[The joker laughs. Rialles.]] Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.306.0	Mrs. Vilella, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.307.0	President, for a separate vote as well. I'll tell you all the points...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.308.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.309.0	It seems to me that some have already told them, but not to leave us -in cap: the 3, the 4, the 9, the 9.b, the 9.c, the 10, the 11 and the 12. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.310.0	Mrs. Lienas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.311.0	For a separate vote on points 2, 3, 4, 9 and 12. [[Joan Garriga Quadres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.312.0	Mr. Garriga, did you also vote separately? Say my points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.313.0	Points 5, 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.314.0	Five, six and seven. Can they vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.315.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.316.0	Okay. We have been asked to vote separately from points 2... Well, let's see, first: 2, 4, 10 and 11 can be voted together? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] No, no, All right. The 5, the 6 and the 7 seem to me to be the only ones, because the 9, the 9b are able to vote together? [[Pause.]] Well, then, we're going to vote separately and it's already, because, if we don't, we won't get out of it. So, let's start by voting point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 92 votes to 2, with 29 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 24 votes to 58, with 39 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 34 votes to 58, with 31 abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 5, 6 and 7 together. The vote begins. Points 5, 6 and 7 were approved by 123 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 9. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved by 47 votes to 19, with 57 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 9.b. The vote begins. Point 9.b was approved by 65 votes to 58, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 9.c. The vote begins. Point 9.c was rejected by 48 votes to 68, with 7 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 10. The vote begins. Point 10_has been rejected by 41 votes to 58, with 23 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 11. The vote begins. Point 11 was rejected by 43 votes to 58, with 22 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point 12. The vote begins. Point 12_has been approved by 50 votes in favour, against and 73 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on childhood and adolescence was adopted by 116 votes in favour, against and 7 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the freedom of expression of the elected authorities and the separation of powers from the Kingdom of Spain]] [[302-00158/11]] The new item on the agenda is: Motion subsequent to the question to the Government on the freedom of expression of the elected authorities and the separation of powers to the Kingdom of Spain, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Joints for the Yes. To expose it, Mr. Antoni Balasch has the word. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm asking them to leave in a hurry and in silence, please, because we have to go on. [[Pause.]] Mr. Balasch, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.317.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, our motion on freedom of expression and separation of powers to the Kingdom of Spain is a whole series of points that want to do justice to these two fundamental rights, to these two pillars of democracy. And, first of all, one of the aspects it addresses is a denunciation of the escalation of declarations such as a government that is willing to do everything, that has hit it, that are days of state... And also denounce accusations and threats to institutional representatives who are either verbally or in the form of court proceedings. This is a mobbing to freedom of expression, this is a mobbing to democracy. And wanting to break the pillar of freedom of speech with the door of reason is to falsify the hope of pure and harsh democracy. We, before this coercion, also propose an active compromise, an active compromise of the deputies to deal with these coercions, these coercions, these intimidations, because we are to serve the people, because we have the majority support of the people and because we brought it into the electoral program. And we also did it in one of the basic principles of human rights, which is freedom of expression. According to this principle, in this case we are calling for the right to debate the elected bodies, the right to defend their own ideological positions, the right to vote on all questions, the right to develop initiatives that respond to the electoral and ideological agenda, and these rights must be able to exercise without being able to take legal action, in accordance with the principle of parliamentary inviolability. The motion also backs the reproof of the open investigation of the members of the Bureau, as it violates the rights I have already contemplated and the separation of powers. And we also urge the government to denounce this fact to the European institutions and to the governmental institutions that they want to guarantee the fundamental rights, that they want to guarantee individual freedoms and to guarantee community freedoms. The obvious violation of these democratic rights made by the Kingdom of Spain and affecting this Parliament, these Members and this Bureau is also reflected in the report submitted by the Dillian Greuges Synod to the Commission in its parliamentary office. And he did it with an argumental conundrum out of all doubt. And he did so with the endorsement, if I may say so, of the reports accompanying him, he did so with the endorsement of international law, and he did so, if I may, with the endorsement of the agreements signed by the Spanish State and which in certain cases does not comply. And in this framework, and from this report, we gather into the motion democratic regressions in laws approved by the Spanish Parliament, such as the Law of Civil Security or the Criminal Code, denounced by Amnesty International, etc. Or also regressions in the reform of the Constitutional Court, when it comes to a court power to execute, something denounced, as you know, by the Venice Commission, for example. We also gather..., a regression is also when the Criminal Code is used and abused to restrict the free exercise of freedom of expression, and so the same syndicate is given in an imperative way when it says: « that the penal way is avoided to resolve political conflicts– « that is avoided. Or the non-separation of powers, which is another of the regressions there is. Remember the Greek report – Group of States against Corruption – which made eleven recommendations to the Spanish State, of which six have not been completed and, of the others, only a small part has been made. And also remember, on this part of the separation of powers, that the syndic says that "we have witnessed judicial proceedings directed at policies for acts carried out in the exercise of their functions, in which the influence of the execution on the prosecution has been found. Or the judicialization of politics. I will not enlarge, but you know that Spain's justice is at the heart of Europe's judicial independence in the barometer. Or also in the interference in electoral processes; interference that there is from the actions of the UDEF in publishing invalid documents, which arise from a strategy of a state that works against a political idea, and that this, as a change in electoral processes, according to the syndic, should be punished by the criminal way. Or also the deterioration of the democratic quality, of which as examples are the conspirator converses – words of the syndic – between Minister Fernández Díaz and Daniel de Alfonso. And I won't get any longer, because I don't have time. For all this, in this motion the Government is urging the Council of Europe, the Council of Human Rights of the United Nations, the Human Rights Committee, the High Commission for Human Rights of the United Nations, the Commissioner for Justice of the European Union, the European Court of Human Rights, and we ask the support of the international community to ensure that the demand of the Catalan people, expressed for hundreds of thousands of people in repeated demonstrations, or for 2,400,000 people on 9 November, is answered by the central executive in the only way possible, which is allowing and facilitating the celebration of a referendum. In the name of these fundamental rights and in their defence, we ask for the support of this young man. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.318.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Balasch. Next, to defend the papers presented, for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Mr Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.319.0	Thank you, President. "We have not been disobedient. We have been subjected to brutal manipulation and abuse. Someone may think that this has been said by some member of the Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia, but who has said it a few days ago is Juan María Atutxa, an expression of the Basque Parliament. [[Greetings.]] And from here I want to take advantage of it to send to Juan María, Gorka Knörr and Kontxi Bilbao a congratulations for the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, which has put things at their place. I'm starting to position myself on the young man. The deputies of the People's Party who accompany us here today are inviolable. What do you mean, that? Obviously, in what they can commit any crime, but their opinions and their votes, even though they do not please us, they have the right to issue this Parliament. They are protected by Article 71 of the Spanish Constitution, and they are also protected by Article 57.1 of the Statute of Catalonia, and also by Article 21 of the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia. And this table that I have at the back, of which I also know a trosset, has the obligation that these members of the People's Party can say their own, can express their opinions, even though you know that some of them do not like me. And this table has the obligation to guarantee this. Why? Because this is a fundamental right that acquits us as a right state. And, obviously, this is present in the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia and the State, which regulate the political initiative that these Members and the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party have right to do in this chamber. But above all, article 20 of the Spanish Constitution, which I read in Catalan, also says this. Says thus: "They recognize and protect the rights..., aside from saying: "to express and freely disseminate thoughts, ideas and opinions through the word, writing or any other means of reproduction. And in his point 2 it is still clearer, because he says: "The exercise of these rights cannot be restricted by means of any kind of pre-emptive censorship. Therefore, I ask the Bureau of Parliament not to censor the debate of ideas in the Parliament of Catalonia, because they would be committing a difficult act of unconstitutionality. And this Constitution that teaches us and this Statue that teaches us guarantees these freedoms. They're really important to us. Imagine, then, that a football match that we are playing passionately, this country, we discover that the referee takes from one of the teams. What would happen? Yes, because we have discovered that the Constitutional Court, which is the arbitrator of this game, plays in favour of one side, and not in favour of all. And that, which is something that the People's Party has done especially, has not done it any favor to the Constitutional Court, because every time I make a judgment there is a deep doubt as to whether it is a fair judgment. The politicization of justice and the politicization of the Constitutional Court, which is the arbiter of this country's democratic game, is a deep democratic abscess. And I think the People's Party should think about it, because that way it's not doing Spanish democracy any favors. And yes, yes, the Greuges of Catalonia has spoken clearly. And I appreciate it from here. Sometimes he doubted him unfairly, but this report is immaculate. A report that can be presented anywhere in Europe, and that, before the Council of Europe, the UN Human Rights Council or the Court of Human Rights, is a report that is really worthwhile; therefore, we have the right to speak, we have the right to discuss and we have no right to condemn or prosecute ourselves judicially to express ideas. They think that what's happening to us I don't want for you, I don't want for anyone. We have a full democracy. To vote in favour of this proposal. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.320.0	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.321.0	Well, good afternoon. The truth is that we will not face the support of this young man, that we will obviously give support to all and each of the points, from which it would be a bit of a defense of the Constitution and the Constitutional Court as to arbitrate. We know you understand that, and that's why I'm saying it with this smile in my mouth. And, therefore, I explain briefly who are the papers that we have presented, that we believe that they have sincerely improved the motion and then also make some considerations. In the first place, we wanted to make a little extension of the motion to the city council. We were referring to the electives and the freedom of expression of the electives and to the guarantees that we have the electives and parliamentary inviolability, and it seems good to us. But it seems to us that, at a time like the present, we also have a special emphasis on people, that they also have, so, this battery of recognized rights, and it's a lot more opportune than they're still having, and at a time like this, when the threat can extend further beyond the elected bodies, too. They are items that have been accepted and therefore, therefore, that is why we believe that they improve the motion, because we do not want it to be a motion that you look so far away, but in some way you go out and overflow also a little the walls of this Parliament. We have somehow wanted to refer to Parliament not as much as to its sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, because we believe that this Parliament does not express precisely the sovereign key of the people of Catalonia and ourselves, that we defend the recovery of the sovereigns that have been stolen from us and minvades, we do not yet mean that this Parliament is its sovereign, so good that one day there is an institution that really is its sovereign. But they're details. In any case, as we hope that there will be a young man who arrives not only in the State and the powers of the State, but also so much good that he can internationalize in his content, because it is important, because he has an important principle of democratic radicality, so we have made these points a little bit, so in this sense of better. And finally, we also added some points that have to do with a concept that we believe is important that we start sharing, that we start socializing, that is the self-guard of rights. When our basic fundamental rights at the level of the collection are violated, we think we have the right, the obligation, and more we have the desire to protect ourselves, because, if not, we have two options: to be disempaired or to refuse to have the rights. And as we don't want two things, so we decide to self-guard ourselves and, therefore, add a new point that goes in this sense. We have also come to show support to all and every one of those people who have been raped to exercise their rights of manifestation, expression or political participation. Those who have been beaten, detained or prosecuted in defense of public freedoms and social, labour and democratic rights; they have also been accepted and we think they are also better off. Because it is good for us to recognize that we have come to this path by resorting to it with many people who have preceded us and who have accompanied us and that many of them, even though they were not elected, were also for the defense of public freedoms, so they have been raped. And we wanted to make a point for the future of this republic that we want to build and see if we can conjure ourselves so that no one else is persecuted or prosecuted in their free exercise, so these rights that we consider to be of use. And the truth is that apart from this and recognizing, therefore, the task that has been done to the young man, we... I don't want to talk more about the Spanish State and the Spanish State and the People's Party and all the considerations that we could make. We, in some ways, are closing this turn of events, which means that we are setting up the international commission as soon as possible, that we can have an observation paper in which we are passing into the Spanish State, in which we are making its execution and also its courts; that it is, therefore, a commission that I observe, which contributes and internationalizes what is going on in this democratic conflict that we have with the Spanish State. And, precisely, when we proposed it in the general policy debate, we thought that it could be an actor, not important anymore, but essential because the voices of denunciation of the violation of democratic rights were not just us, but you could see them coming out of the world. Therefore, let us place ourselves in the midst of the walls of this chamber, and let us also overflow the limits of our people, and let us not go into the world, to help us explain what is happening in this little raccus of the Mediterranean. And also, in a _second chapter, so let us begin to advance in the guarantees that must accompany this reference. Let's talk about an actual reference. We know that when we talk about "actually we talk about that it is binding and that it has above all guarantees. And in the chapter of guarantees we also believe, therefore, that we must start working to guarantee the right to vote not only from everyone who is here, but from people who live outside. We have to guarantee mechanisms of impartiality in voting, I'm sure, and we have to guarantee a campaign with arguments of yes and no that arrive at all. So, we're working. We look more at the democratic front and less at the Spanish state.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.322.0	Thank you, Mrs. Gabriel. Then, to fix his position, has the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.323.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a motion entitled 'On the freedom of expression of the elected representatives and the separation of power from the Kingdom of Spain. On the llibertat d'expression of the elected offices..., well, and of all the people and citizens of Spain, Mr Nuet has illustrated to us with our Constitution, which enshrines the right to freedom of expression. That our 1978 Constitution, which was agreed by democratic forces after leaving a dictatorship... I remember that when I studied law, from 1981 onwards, it became a comparative constitutional law, and our Constitution was the most advanced in the protection of the fundamental rights and duties and public freedoms of citizens, since it was the newest Constitution and emerged after a dictatorship. And the legislator, the Spanish constituent power, decided to shield especially and be especially refined and careful with the defense of the fundamental rights and public freedoms of all Spaniards. We therefore enjoy a constitutional text that is good and that guarantees freedom of expression, which is said in this motion to be threatened. You know that we can share that there are many things that do not work in Spain, that is true, and Citizens denounce it a lot, that there is politicization of justice, that the revolving doors work, that there is a Greek report that talks about corruption in Spain, because it deals with corruption in the states and not in the autonomous communities, because if it deals with that of the autonomous communities, in Catalonia we would certainly get the colors out, too. We have a lot of unemployment; a bad educational system; laws, such as the Law on Citizen Security, which is critical and we criticize at the moment; reforms of the Criminal Code with which we do not always agree... But in Citizens we work in the democratic system to reform everything that may not go well. What happens is that we do not question the democratic system and the system of defence of freedoms that we have in Spain. Who questions it? So who's questioning it? Those politicians who want to stand up... who want to be above the law. These are those who say that Spain does not guarantee the right to freedom of expression. That's not true. We talk here and say what we want. Now, when the law is violated, a politician is like any other citizen, and that's it. And this is what happens. And those politicians who want to jump the laws seek impunity in resolutions and motions in which they get protection and want to return this issue..., let's say, give international flight to leave a country badly..., which has very good credit for Spanish democracy abroad and not so much those who are going to meet with Italian, Finnish and many other populist politicians from the rest of the world. Here we are also talking about the shameful report of the syndic of Greuges, which I have already had occasion to criticize in the syndic's appearance before the relevant committee. There I said that this report was a disgraceful – a disgraceful – example of the cherry picking technique, of the « cherry pickling, which means that one chooses the arguments necessary to give validity to his thesis, with little intellectual honesty omitting that which goes against the thesis that one wants to sustain. And that report was an absolute example. The trustee, when referring to a court decision, referred to the particular votes of the judges who disagreed with the majority, and that was what he claimed to support his allegations. Another thing that the syndic did, that he admits to having based his report on the jurists, that an era of the association of jurists pro referendum per la indépendência and Mr. Vintró member of the Council Counsellor per la Transicio Nacional. And then with these limbs he gets a report, so how? Tailored by the Government. Therefore, we do not respect this report of the government trustee, nor do we respect this initiative of politicians who seek to bypass the laws and obtain impunity. And to make it clear that Spain is not a fully democratic country, which is obviously a fallacy. And that is why we are going to vote that not all the points of this shameful motion presented to us by Junts pel Yes, with some embarrassing amendments too, of the CUP i de Catalunya Yes that is Pot. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.324.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.325.0	Well, thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, presents to us the Group of Joints for the Yes this motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the freedom of expression of the elected bodies and the separation of powers to the Kingdom of Spain. And we have to say that by looking at some of the questions that are raised here that, if there is no doubt, we are not serious about all that could be said to respect the shortcomings in terms of respect for the rights of citizens and citizens of the conjunction of the State, we can find aspects of it that we agree with. In fact we can find it and we can find various questions that our parliamentary group to the General Courts has brought, has appealed to the Constitutional Court. We can find some elements in the report of the Synod of Greuges; that we do not consider, say, immaculate, because we do not consider that there is anything free of the maculum, perhaps, carried from, say, the innocence of a newborn infant, eh? Despite that, there's nothing out of the way, it's questionable, like all the syndic's reports. And there are some questions that we discuss and others that we agree with and that, as I say, we have not only brought to the Constitutional Court, but that we consider them worthy of complaint. But he ascribes to Talleyrand an aphorism, an appointment, which we don't know, is difficult to know, if it's strictly correct, but what you say to him is that "everything that's exaggerated is insignificant, huh? And it seems to us that this young man is certainly exaggerated and maybe that's why he has a report we'll have to consider insignificant. Because they intend to make a report according to which we live in a non-democratic state, in an oppressive state of the rights and freedoms of citizens, and a state, in short, from which it would be worth coming out currents, regardless of how it is done. And we can't share from any of the ways in this relationship that I understand, go, that Together for the Yes, they claim that we know each other and we can agree with each other. Look, it's true that the set of Western democracies are patenting a process of degradation, of retaliation of rights and freedoms. Sometimes, in the most purely formal aspects; sometimes, in substantial aspects that have to do with civil and political freedoms. And it is not only Viktor Orbán's Hungary or the formation of a paramilitary militia in Poland that has to defend the Catholic character of the Polish nation. We can go to the state of permanent emergence in which France is found; we can go to May's statements that in order to pursue terrorism, if only, the laws protecting human rights will be detailed, or we can actually go to the law bite, to the reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, which we have resorted to before the Constitutional Court, in the case of Spain. But it is argued that in this country, in this Parliament, it is not possible to discuss any of the ideas that any of you can propose on the table. Indeed – the Deputy of Juntes refers to Yes – the deputies and deputies of this chamber are committed to the Constitution and the Statute with their inviolability for the opinions and votes that they cast in this chamber, which does not mean that this chamber can vote on any question and decide on any question regardless of the formats, the guarantees, the procedures and the places on which the questions are to be discussed. Because, indeed, there is a framework that guarantees the freedoms of all, and this also includes citizens, who must also be protected by a certain majority of Parliament, which at a certain time decides to dispense with all forms and guarantees in order to repeal the validity of the Statute and the Constitution to the territory of Catalonia. It's as simple as that, huh? So, I'm telling you, we can't buy it. And I looked at the fact that we voted together, with parliamentary groups here, motions and motions for resolutions denouncing concrete aspects like these. And I see that we can agree, for example, with ideas that he has introduced..., and I think that, let's face it, he did well, with the logic of moving the UPC, to introduce into this young man..., as may be points 9 and 11. And we could introduce ourselves to others, couldn't we? , as is the support for more than three hundred trade unionists who stop from the last general waves is seen to be submissive to judicial proceedings. But we are not prepared, the Socialists of Catalonia, that you intend to establish the report that in a country where, of the thirty-seven, thirty-eight, thirty-nine years of democracy that we have had, the nationalist parties have ruled in Catalonia for more than thirty years, it is said that nationalist ideas, that independence is oppressed, cannot express and cannot bring their proposals to Parliament, because we are discussing it every day for many years. [[Greetings.]] Thank you very much. [[The applause continues.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.326.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Next is the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.327.0	Thank you, President. One of the most negative consequences of the independence process is the degradation of the quality of public debate, political debate, as this young man is. It goes without saying, in any case, that Mr Balasch has done it in a serene way, with a tone that we appreciate. They told us that I would defend another person – I won't say who – and we were hoping for something else. Therefore, this is a compliment for you that I hope yours do not take into account; it is not my intention to harm you in your trajectory, but I want to thank you, as a minimum, for all. But the degradation of the public and political debate, of which this young man is an example, is based on the hypobole, the exaggeration, which is said before, and sometimes the total loss of the sense of the ridiculous, which is manifested not only here, for example, by listening to the high Catalan bourgeoisie richly roving as if they were the massacred Armenian minority. [[remorse of the voice]] Listening professionally to international success deserved, without any doubt, as in Josep Guardiola, ask for international employment as if it were a Kurdistan refugee tortured for Spain. And this young man is another example of this degradation of the public debate of the hippo. It is, if I may say so, a young man who is a democratic cowardice, a sub-optimal quality by-product, inflamed and raised language and tiny politics. I've made a huge containment effort to define it. [[relays]] But I couldn't... I couldn't be... [[some applause]] It's the most I've been able to get, because it's absolutely smoky. They intend to continue presenting Spain, which is according to The Economist and the world's most important think tanks, one of the best democracies in the world, like a minority of totalitarian countries. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, I explained to them yesterday; you have The Economist's link that went through all the communication media. Look, saying that Spain has no freedom of speech is an authentic beast that I will set in a very simple example that even you will understand; language is very simple. Mirin, the company of the CUP... – [[Funnel veils]] , little by little, effectively; if they strive, they will achieve it –, the Companions of the CUP every plenary say they break the law, they say. Has anything happened to them? No, no, They don't. It's the difference between talking and doing; I don't know if they're taking it. [[Widow's remorse.]] Here no one is going to speak, to fail the law; the difference between speaking and doing. The Table, Mr Nuet, which you so claim, has two sentences for violation of the rights of the deputies, which you have collected; do not idealize it so much, because now it is up to you. It was wrong; therefore, you will not have to assume the consequences. Mirin... [[Funnel veils]] – it is so simple – the one that affects democratic quality in a very difficult way are things that you do..., and freedom of expression. When you say that "Spain steals from us, turn everything that identifies with Spain into a thief. That is to deny the democratic debate, because it is obviously not possible to speak with a thief. When you say that this is a debate between democrats, you and the rest, that they are not, they are denying us the democratic right... [[Widow's remorse.]] Would you please shut up, Vice President, honorable... as you wish? [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Would you please shut up?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.328.0	Hey... please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.329.0	It's just that there's no way, that she's not moderate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.330.0	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.331.0	I'm telling you with all the love I know I profess, but it's just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.332.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.333.0	...you'll have your chance. This is a totalitarian debate: to deny the rest the democratic character, simply because we consider that a reference is not the solution to problems as serious as we have. Mirin, l'any 1859, the John Stuart Mill, in his book On Liberty – look at it fa temps – has already brilliantly defined the llibertat d'expression and democracy: "There must be maximum freedom to profess and discuss as a matter of ethical conviction any doctrine, with only one limit: the principle of harm to the other. Who marks the beginning of harm to the other? The law. Look, by any vocational policy, and given by the fact that the hundred and thirty-five that we are here are, there is nothing more wonderful than the peaceful battle of ideas. Here, indeed, we are for this peaceful battle of ideas. It's exciting and we like it, we demand it. But what you can't say is that you skip the law is freedom of expression. They will not make us eat octopus as a pet; this defective merchandise will only buy us Umberto Bossi and company, obviously not us. We think so much of democracy and law that if a court in Strasbourg, as you have said, says that Spain has made a form error, that it is what the judgment says, we accept it, and we will rectify what is necessary, because we regard law and democracy as our own. In short, we estimate the law and democracy and the democratic debate, because only from the law can we achieve a democratic debate of quality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.334.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Then there is the words of Mr. Antoni Balasch to pronounce himself on the papers. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.335.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, allow 'but thank the negotiating effort both of the deputy Anna Gabriel, on behalf of the CUP, as of the deputy Joan Josep Nuet, to whom apart from the negotiation I thank the effort he makes for the defense of democracy, on behalf of the entire parliamentary group. We have collected the embedded items with transactions; therefore, I will not refer to them. But I'd really like to make a couple of comments from the girls' interventions. The first is that the law of the Spanish legal order prohibits speaking in the Parliament of any thing, even though it does not have the attribution, the law. So I can talk about everything. And the Bureau accepts the parliamentary debate. That's phoney. From here, the law... the one you want. To say that..., it has been mentioned, on the part of the deputy of Ciutadans, of the use that is done..., that the syndic critic..., spoke of justice – I am mistaken, but... The syndic, knowing that criticizes the use that is done of justice, does not say that there is no justice, criticizes the use that is done. Therefore, there are laws, but it criticizes the use made of laws. One thing is the law and the other the legal interpretation that is done, as has been seen in a thousand cases. So we're not leaving and we're landing in depth. That's not fishing, that's reality. So... to say also that when it was talking about the report that was not correct..., look, our report is the following: the people come out on the street repeatedly with demonstrations of hundreds of thousands of people; the Government of Catalonia, the people of Catalonia, the parties of Catalonia, they pose at the side of the people, and when they obey what the people say there is a government of the Spanish State that does not let you follow what the people want. And what the people want is democracy, the phone book we did before. It's elementary, that. And for all that I do, so I am a teacher, a teacher, a pedagogic, and I think I am tempted to try to rationalise things and, above all, I am very impelled by the civic experience that the citizens of this country demonstrate to all the manifestations that they do, with the rill in their mouths, with children at the side, simply to say: "We want to vote, we want a referendum. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-15-3702.336.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Balasch. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. [[Long break.]] Vote. Since no separate vote has been requested, we shall vote on the motion. The vote begins. The motion on the freedom of expression of elected officials and the separation of powers to the Kingdom of Spain has been approved by 66 votes in favour, 49 against and no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Thank you all very much. And the session goes up.
