ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you. [[Ask the Government about corrupt practices in public procurement]] [[310-00198/11]] The second point of the order of the day is: ask with oral answer. The first question to the Government, on corrupt practices in public procurement, formulated for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.2.0	Yeah. Mr Romeva, we Catalans wake up every morning with news about corruption in public procurement. The Palau case, case three_per_cent investigated in Vendrell, case Pujol, are all cases of commissions and friendship in which politicians or their families intervene to give public contracts in exchange for commissions: Can you guarantee your department, Mr Romeva, that today there is no corruption under your government in public procurement?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.3.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Councillor Raül Romeva continued to respond.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.4.0	Mr. Carrizosa, yes, I can actually ratify it and more, I assure you that all the measures that are being taken are measures that we would like to see in other parliaments and in other governments too, because they are absolutely exemplary measures from the point of view of setting the necessary milestones because these things are not produced. So, yes, I can ratify it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. You have the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.6.0	I see in you, Mr Romeva, the same complacency of Mr Artur Mas a year and a half ago, when he appeared here in this Parliament, and he said that public procurement in Catalonia was impeccable. Then it turns out that they're marching entrepreneurs through Vendrell's courts saying that, truly, there was something impeccable there, in the public procurement negotiations, and that Mr. Mas was involved. And today we know things that took place under the mandate of Mr. Mas, for whom recruitment was impeccable. And I also asked you why, you brought here a month ago a law of urgent measures for public procurement that had no measure or progressed in anything against the fight against corruption. The contracts published on the transparency web are not published in full, nor are they published late and badly. And then you sit down, Mr Romeva, ill that you weigh, with the protagonists of the Palau case, of the Pujol case, of case 3, 4_per_cent, with those who follow, with the same councillors, with the same deputies, with the same seats, with the same subsidies, but who recite to Neruda: "We, then, are no longer the same. They recited Neruda, but they took him raw, in the City of Justice, and with Line 9 of Metro. Mr Romeva, I don't know if you have a pact not to talk about corruption with your government, if you have a pact not to bother yourself, if you have stayed in not stepping on the hose, but corruption costs citizens billions, because you hire the friends, and not the best, and because citizens end up getting worse services for those who pay more. Therefore, in Citizens, instead of passing from points on corruption as you do, we propose anti-corruption measures, as you said, not only here in Catalonia, but in the rest of Spain. We propose measures in Congress and we propose them in Parliament. That is why we ask you to work already to protect officials who report corruption in public procurement, to guarantee the compensation and protection of their data, to end the hijackings and to take measures to ensure transparency and free competition in minor contracts. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.7.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. There's the word the Romeva Councilman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.8.0	Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, I would appreciate it, in any case, that when you prepare your interventions, the least you have to do is get well informed. You know that, at these times, the Government of Catalonia awards 7,400 contracts annually, with a value of 2,400_million euros. This assumes that 18 percent of the departments are responsible for these contracts, and 82 percent are responsible for the rest of the public sector. From the point of view of the contribution of social contracts, 70_percent of the contract goes to the small and medium-sized company and 25_percent have social clauses. That's a fact. We could have talked about this, but since the public-private relationship, which seems to me to be particularly relevant and important, is also of interest to you, I will remind you, precisely, that it is this Government that has established a code of conduct, precisely from the top ranks and from the management staff, which we have approved, and that we have a register of entities and interest groups, in which there are already 1,500 registered entities, which operate impeccably, in an absolutely impeccable manner. And that, in addition, the register that you did is precisely the tool that allows us to control, also from the citizenry, all those actions and operations that are in excess of the public contract. That's all a fact. But it is that, moreover, I will say more, in the debate on assumptions that we will have today, there is a couple of measures that are absolutely significant: 134, the Law of Tax Measures to promote competition and the prevention of conflicts of interest. If you're so interested, vote in favour. And more so, the special source of struggle against corruption and evasion. If you are interested in all these issues, you vote in favour of these assumptions, because they are the guarantee that all this will not only happen, but will be avoided. Plus, I'll tell you something else that's even more important. I would be pleased if you had demonstrated this strength, for example, in the case of Huelva, or in the case of Seville, or at the time of voting for Mr Rajoy as the President of the Government, or every time you forget all these questions, precisely believing their friendships..., not friendships, no, their votes, their support, their complicity with the most corrupt party that at these times we can find, not only in the Spanish State, but precisely in the Council of the European Union. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.9.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Romeva. [[Ask the Government about transparency in its actions]] [[310-00199/11]] [[According to the question to the Government, on transparency in its action, formulated by the Group of Parliamentarians of Ciutadans. To expose her, Mr. Fernando de Páramo has the word.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.10.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Today you double, Mr Romeva; that's what you have to rule at the hands of the three percent party, which we will ask you every day about corruption. Six months, six months has taken you – six months, look well, six months – to give us the documentation requested by this parliamentary group, six months, the transparency adviser, to give us those documents. Now I understand why you didn't want to give us those documents, Mr Romeva, because you lie, in those documents. None to the opposition [[Funnel veils]] – Yes, yes, Mr Romeva, he does not laugh – and he signs as a minister. I told you the other day, Mr Romeva, you are not a minister, you are not, you are not a firm minister, you are not a liar. Look, I'm going to read you a phrase that I really like, especially. He says: "The democratic deficit is, at the moment, due to the lack of transparency of the executives, able to do one thing in public and another in private. Do you know who that phrase is, Mr. Romeva? It's yours, Mr. Romeva, that phrase is yours, because you used to criticize executives, you used to criticize Convergence, you used to criticize Mr. Pujol in your tweets, and you said that Mr. Pujol didn't tell the whole truth, that was the Romeva who criticized corruption. But you, who have sat in that seat, who have been made a counselor, who have been sold by a chair, who governs by the hand of three percent, at that time, Mr Romeva, you have forgotten transparency. And the question is, are you going to publish, once and for all, Mr Romeva, the cost and schedule of your journeys, which we pay all Catalans? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.11.0	Reply by Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.12.0	Yes, look, I must confess that I am beginning to like to have the opportunity, in every plenary, to explain all the things that we are doing in terms of transparency. I repeat it and I will repeat it as many times as I asked, I have no problem. This government has responded, responds and will always respond to all requests. I'll also tell him that things have some procedures and that they're going to be fine. If it's good, things have a timely answer. Like, the moment you put things up, you did it in a pretty big way, obviously, it was very hard to know what you were asking. When we heard, we understood what they wanted to know, we explained in a very clear way that we have absolutely nothing to store. And it may have surprised him, that, because the information that we have not only passed, but that we have stuck, is exactly the information that can be found in each of the public interventions that we make, or private, those that the president does, those that the vice president does, those that any councilor or councilor does when he comes out. Let's explain out the same way we explain here. It's the same thing we explain every time we meet with who we are, with a lot of people who obviously have a lot of interest in listening and talking at these times. Not exactly the ones they had yesterday in Madrid, before the Athenaeum, in a very friendly and very democratic way, and very free, preventing, precisely, this debate. I suppose you should also feel a lot of reflection, because, obviously, you are in the line of your own reflections. But in any case, I will tell you something else that also seems particularly significant to me: from the point of view of transparency, you can have absolutely all the information about all the trips and all the trips that this government makes, all of them, all the trips that at these times are public, and you can consult them on the web: you have no reason not to consult them, you can do it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. The word has the lord of Paramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.14.0	Answer the questions, Mr Romeva, please answer the questions: 87 trips around the world, Mr Romeva, you are the Willy Fog of independence. [[Rialles.]] You've traveled all over the world selling independence, Mr. Romeva, 87 trips. Do you know that you do not pay for these trips? You know who pays for those trips, don't you? We pay all Catalans, Mr. Romeva. You are the most expensive advisor of all, and the least transparent, Mr Romeva. On those trips, on which no one receives you, because you travel around the world and no one receives you. And besides, he doesn't tell us what he's talking about on those trips, because he's hiding information from us. Mr. Romeva, we pay all Catalans. That you have a passport full of stamps, it's because all Catalans pay you those trips, and Catalans have a right to know what you're talking about on those trips. We have the right to know your schedule, you don't publish your schedule, on those trips. And most importantly, we have a right to know how much those trips cost us. The cost of travel. Remember that phrase that I read to you, Mr Romeva, when you did defend transparency, when you were a deputy and criticized the corruption of Convergence. Now he's sitting next to corruption and he's part of it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.15.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.16.0	I won't repeat all the information; it's public. And more, more than we'd even have to donate. I would ask you for the same transparency exercise with your members and friends of the People's Party in the case of the Congress and, obviously, with all the expenses absolutely, according to you, surely justified, of the embassies and consulates that hold the Spanish Foreign Administration. But in any case, this is a debate I'm not interested in. If you want to value the transparency of this government, values precisely, also, all the recognitions we have had. Miri, last week he was talking about an award we had rejected in Barcelona. This week we have had another, from the point of view of the procedure of the management of assumptions, to the United States; these are things that we don't give them to ourselves, these are things that come from outside. But I assume that you, in fear of friends, feel much more as if surrounded by phalanxists, that they are all those who were at the manifestation of the sun, when you spoke of democracy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. Third... [[Widow's remorse.]] Third question to the government, about the youth guarantee... Why ask the word, Mr. de Paramo?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.18.0	For allusions and disrespect [[strong remorse of the eyes]] to this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.19.0	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.20.0	It's a point of order, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.21.0	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Mr. Paramo...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.22.0	It's a point of order. I'm not going to let you call us phalangists – I'm not going to let you call us phalangists –, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.23.0	In asking the Government..., in asking the Government there are always direct allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.24.0	President, I am not going to let them call us phalangists in a democratic Parliament. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Madam President, I will not allow it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.25.0	He didn't say it– he didn't say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.26.0	I'm not gonna let you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.27.0	No, he didn't.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.28.0	And I'm not gonna let you insult other people who were at that demonstration, president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.29.0	He didn't say it – he didn't say it – Mr. de Páramo, he didn't say it. He said "wrapped, didn't say... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] He didn't say it – he didn't say it. [[Ask the Government about the Youth Guarantee]] [[310-00192/11]] Third question to the Government, on the youth guarantee, formulated for Mr Pol Gibert, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.30.0	Thank you, President. I hope that my question generates this expectation, too, so important, in this room, because it is a theme, too, very vital for many young people. These past weeks we have learned that the Government will return €42_million– €42_million– from the European Youth Guarantee Fund. Dramatic news, considering how the young man is in our country. He knows perfectly well, the Government, that we have criticized on many occasions the model applied for the Popular Party, of youth guarantee, and that it has changed recently, at the strength of many autonomous governments of the socialists, and also of other autonomous governments of other political forces. Moreover, we have already asked the European Commission that I do not allow the loss of a single euro, of the Youth Guarantee Fund for Catalonia. But it must be borne in mind that this model applied to Catalonia had a name and surname, which is said to be Felipe Puig, who copied, as it were, the model of bonuses designed by the People's Party. A model that did not adapt to the reality that the young man of this country is experiencing and that continues to paint today. Do you see the consequences of that decision: do you share, counsel, the model of your predecessor? And above all, counsel, what do you intend to do in order not to lose one euro of the youth guarantee in this country?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.31.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gibert. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Social Affairs, Work and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.32.0	Thank you, President. Member, as you said, the Youth Occupation Program in Catalonia is the 2000 program of the year 2014-2020 – so we are just in the middle of the program – it is a compromise that the government acquired last year's legislature and that we have continued, because it provides exit to young people promoting empowerment and the ability to configure a vital project around them. But I'll tell you, every year, every year, it's programs. And the programs that were there at the beginning of 2014 are not the same programs that are there now, because obviously we have to go remodeling. I can tell you that before this Catalan strategy of youth occupation, so this program, we had a rate of 37.40. In these moments, at the end of the year 2016, it is 25,40. Therefore, twelve points of sharp reduction that the difference between Spain and Spain is eight points. So, something we're doing well with the youth occupation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.34.0	Thank you, Counselor, for your analysis of the youth and labour sector in Catalonia. But I have asked two very concrete questions: what will you do not to lose one euro of the youth guarantee in Catalonia? He didn't say a word about it. Today only 20_percent of young people who do not find work, neither study, nor form are opting for the youth guarantee, and we have 200,000, and only 20_percent are opting for it. Something doesn't work. Today, counselor, there are fewer young people working than in 2011, some of the toughest years of the crisis; only 4_of_each_10 young people are busy. You have been told that they are pioneers in Youth Guarantee, that they are leaders in the execution, and now we find ourselves with the evolution of more than half of the European foundations. The government has not only shown the strength of willingness to fight youth with its own tools, it does not do so with the tools that Europe gives it. How can it be that with a youth tourism tax that doubles our Europeans, we dedicate ourselves to returning half the funds to Europe? It is an absolute shame that shows a little more of this government's commitment to the young people of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.35.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gibert. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.36.0	Thank you, President. I think he's giving some data that's wrong. First of all, we have not lost even five, because what we have done by the government is put it 177_million. If you know how European social funds work and the sources of employment you will know that first we advance money and at the end of six years is justified and checked. Therefore, for nothing, on the contrary: we have invested 177 million in these moments for youth employment programs; 60,850 young people registered in Catalonia during the year 2016, and, today, 69,000. But you also need to know that these youth guarantee programs are state-based, that it's only for intermediary organizations, that there are five in Catalonia and that we are one, of these five, but that we are making programs for 76 percent of young people. So, we're doing good work. I can consult the website of the SOC, which with this air of transparency of our Government we have put in a study of all the development of Youth Guarantee in Catalonia, not made for us, but a study for the University of Barcelona. Or, if not, the invitation to the information session that I asked on March 13th to compare and detail all the programs, which other communities have not done. Yes, I will tell him that we are pioneers and that, therefore, we are the community that we have invested the most and that we can verify and justify the most. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the new features of T-Mobility]] [[310-00195/11]] Fourth question to the Government, on the novelties of T-Mobility, formulated for Mr. Marc Sanglas, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.38.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, at the beginning of this March, you and other people, let's say, responsible for the mobility of the country, publicly presented the T-Mobility, already with a very practical element, and, therefore, let's say, we started to visualize what it was about. We also put this in contrast to some promises that are constantly making other places with fictitious investments that never come, never come. In any case, from our parliamentary group we want to put some of these questions in value. We want to put in value, for example, what it means as the tariff integration of the country to this model that goes beyond there, this model that will exceed the tariff crowns of the current metropolis, and that, therefore, with this intention to supply the country that public transport is a reality that goes beyond there, let us say, to pay by areas and that it is a payment for recurring kilometers. It seems to us that this is a more just method, it is a method that affects much of the metropolitan area, especially, but that, in any case, it also has to be used to visualize the country as a whole, and that, therefore, favors public transport. And, second of all, we see important and we seem interested in this bet and this modernity, this bet for technology, especially Catalan. And we also want to put it in value. It's a country's own technology. And, therefore, from this point of view, it seems interesting to us, it seems important that companies in the country do so. Another point, which we want to highlight, and this also seems to us the most important of all, in short: the policies that generate any government must place people as the center of its policies. It seems to us that, with this model, with this bet made by the Catalan Public Administration to bet on T-Mobility allows individualized rates. It will allow us..., and we expect it and, in any case, we would also like to put in place the bonuses that currently exist and what is the layout that the T-Mobility will put in place for the different rates, and in any case we also understand that it is a gain that with a title_sol, with a used_sol, with a material_sol there is enough and eliminates the totality of the journeys of the different rates. It seems to us that this model is a model that has to favor, and it has to favor public transport. We also wanted to value the fact that the... that all this is going to be, all the data that it generates will be under public control, and therefore this is an adventure that seems important to us too. And that everything you allow us to get data to generate and improve mobility, so to manage the same service and the flow of travelers, it seems important to us. And, therefore, we would like, counselor, that you tell us what technological and social values you understand that you have to bring us this T-Mobility, especially another area, in which we can fight against environmental contamination through T-Mobility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.39.0	Thank you, Mr. Bloods. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.40.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. MP, you said, the big beneficiaries of this bet, of T-Mobility, is the joint venture of the citizenry, which will have a better public transport and a public transport that is cheaper and more efficient. We are talking, perhaps, about the smart mobility, intelligent mobility, more powerful bets that will be made in the context of Europe. This is the second revolution in public transport. The first was starring in tariff integration. Sometimes the power of tariff integration goes unnoticed to thirteen regions of Catalonia, and then to Girona, Lleida and Tarragona. In other words, with a single transport title you can carry out transhipments for a specific period of time. And this allowed a very substantial increase in the number of users to public transport. Now we're doing the second big revolution around T-Mobility. The magnetic band has become obsolete, we can no longer create more titles; we have eighty-seen and we can no longer create more titles. And, therefore, we will have an instrument that will allow us, therefore, to use the mobile, to use the magnetic tape, to use, after all, the clock to be able to pay. And, as you said, it has several advantages: a first is that we already overcome the tariff crowns, that they have a point of injustice, and you that it is valleys know it and know it well. We will be talking about a flat-rate area, but from here, it will be charged for the actual kilometres. And, according to them, there will be tariffs that will be individualized, if I may say so in these terms: there will be Joan's tariff, there will be Mercè's tariff, there will be Antonio's tariff... there will be tariffs depending on the reality of each. The more you use public transport you will have a specific, concrete tariff. More public transportation, more public transportation. You pay for miles, but in addition, in the line you set up, we incorporate this element of "all social titles remain there. Therefore, young people, the so-called, retired people will enjoy this advantage. Aqueta is the fundamental idea. When are we gonna put him on duty? We will start typing at the end of this year, very probably on line 9; the year 2018 will apply to the area of Barcelona, strictly, and from the year 2019 we will integrate tariffly not only the thirteen comarques, but the country's joint, through the T-Mobility, that means a bet for sustainable mobility, fighting against atmospheric pollution and making public transport follow the priority system. It is no longer a question of supplementing private transport with public transport. Public transport must be the basis of mobility in this country. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.41.0	Thank you, Counsellor Rull. [[Ask the Government about the main challenges of the 2017-2019 strategy of the Comprehensive Care Plan for People with Mental Disturbing and Addictions]] [[310-00196/11]] Five questions to the Government on the main aspects of the 2017-2019 strategy of the Comprehensive Care Plan for Mentally Disturbed and Addictional Persons, formulated by Ms. Magda Casamitjana, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.42.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor Munté, mental health problems and addictions have a high prevalence. The World Health Organization reports that one of four people will suffer from some type of mental health problem at the length of life. The Government focuses on mental health issues from public policies and addresses problems related to disability, stigma and social exclusion. The Government of the Generality approved the 2010 Comprehensive Care Plan for People with Mental Disorders and Additions, and the year 2014 and 2016, in a consensual manner with social entities, presented a performance document. On March 13, the government and the social entities of the sector presented the 2017-2019 strategy of the new plan, thus, as it plays, an indispensable step further. The government has prioritized the mental salvation of 2017 with a higher presuppositionary increment of history. Counselor Munté, I have personally been able to prove that the government is all there is and that the plan is unequivocally cross-cutting. I would like to take advantage of the cooperation, the compromise and the sensitivity of institutional relations, and to take advantage of the cooperation, also compromise and sensitivity, of the advisers and advisers, including the president. I have spoken directly and I have been able to deal directly with the work that has been done until today of the different governments of the Generality, with the involvement of associations and professionals, who have made great, not only in quantity, but in ethical sensitivities and values, the actions that are developing in our country. After coughing up work there, we have all done a quick immersion, and I assure you that I believe, many times, in the daily reality of these people. We're not going to look at each other anymore, we're all aware, we're all in our most direct surroundings, someone who's painted. Each person's new people with a difficult mental disorder live with their families. Counselor, is there hope? So much! It has been shown that with proper treatment and a social environment, especially, and familiarly favorable people can recover little by little from their limitations. Please don't let anyone get in the way – anyone – who isn't left behind. Affected, families and professionals years ago demand more resources to prevent malalties with a strong economic social impact. The 2017-2019 Pla eixample and dictates one to one the appropriate programs to cure and, above all, take care of and spoil this weakest people of ours. What is the 2017-2019 strategy of the plan?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.43.0	Thank you, Mrs. Casamitjana. Reply to Ms. Neus Munté, President's Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.44.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, you referred to the Comprehensive Care Plan for people with mental disorders and addictions. This is a political strategy, a strategy of a country that embraces that which is a repte, a global repte, and not only to improve the living conditions of people affected by an addiction, for a mental disorder, but the conjunction of our society. You refer to the year 2014, where we have already made a priority, effectively, of objectives. And now, in an absolutely coordinated manner, especially from the departments of Health, Education, Justice, Work, Social Affairs and Families and Presidency, we have re-established and we have achieved a new strategic goal. The most important and innovative is the right, the right line, in line with what the United Nations has established, the Charter of Rights and Rights, also with special attention to the field of occupation, to the job placement of people with problems arising from mental health, also with a special look at large people and also to give support to the associative network, which is essential, as you said. Miri, on the 15th, a letter was published in a Catalan newspaper to the director – in fact, to the director – of a volunteer, of an entity related to mental health, who attended the Palau de la Generalitat to the act of presenting the integral plan to which you refer. And he did some reflections that I think indicate that we're in the right direction, one of them related to stigma and struggle... to struggle against stigma and discrimination. Indeed, this is a top priority. We must all conjure ourselves up so that we do not tolerate any attitude, nor any statement, nor do we represent any policy that goes in the line of stigmatizing people with mental disorder. He also said to us: "Please, take special care and look at adolescence. So, well, it's another axis of the plan: childhood, adolescence, young people. We also note that the participation of the sector, the entities, with their professionals and volunteers, the families, the people who have an affect derived from mental health are at the time able to define these policies. I sincerely believe, honourable Member, that we have done more work, that we will certainly make an important presuppositional effort – you too said it – there is a political will, there is a great social sensibility, and so we go out to win, we go out to win in the field of mental salvation, convinced that moving forward and improving here will also have a better country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.45.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the evolution of the industry in the first months of 2017]] [[310-00197/11]] Sisena asks the Government, about the evolution of the industry in the first months of 2017, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si. To expose her, Mr. Jordi Munell has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.46.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counsellor, the Catalan economy, we all know and recognize that it has a solid basis in the field of industry. This fact, added to the internationalization, the opening to the outside of the enterprises or the bet for innovation, makes us follow an economy, a small country, but highly competitive, a country that faces challenges like those of the countries of the round: globalisation, the constant advances in technology, the change of industrial model – it is already about industry 4.0–, sustainability, energy transition... This makes the pes of the industrial economy in Catalonia, even though it is not the best or precisely what we want, therefore, to promote a national pact for the industry, it is already close to figures like those of Finland, with 20.6_percent of the value added gross; Sweden, 20.4, but we exceed values like those of France, 14.1_percent, or even 18.8_percent. In recent years the Catalan economy has not stopped growing, and the industrial economy, even more. Macroeconomic data is aimed at this. Catalonia's GDP grows to EUR 223,000_million, a 3.5_percent increase in 2016. From the perspective of the value added, it has increased by 4_percent during 2016. Industrial occupation has increased by 0.3_per_cent, which has led to a 16.1_per_cent reduction in industrial weather, the best given since 1999. The output index has also increased, a 4_per_cent. Industrial investment has also increased, by 0.6_per_cent. The creation of enterprises has also increased, more than 37_per_cent, almost 1,600 new enterprises during 2016 in the industrial sector. Sales abroad have also increased, up to a record xifra: €65.000_million. With these data, counselor, we still read and feel someone who preaches and preaches and says that the Catalan economy is fragile, that the Catalan economy and the Catalan industry are under a flight of investments, displacements. The figures don't point at it. What is the government's appreciation of these first months of the year in Catalonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.47.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.48.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, you, at the end of your question, asked this question: how do we value it? We value it in a positive way, because we cannot value it in another way, the effort being made. To all the figures you've said... two more came out of them yesterday that show that these first months of the 17th year are also in the right direction. Look, let's export to the month of generation: more than a 15-percent growth; important, because we came from a year that was remembering and that was the six-year consequence that had been remembering. So, let's keep exporting, keep coming. And yesterday it also gave an important data, which is the direct foreign investment. And it turns out 2016 was the second year of foreign direct investment, after 2015. And if we look at it with terms of five years, which are the periods that are recommended, because investments can be very variable, it turns out that between 2007 and 2011 and 2012 and 2016 there was an increase of 32_per_cent. Therefore, fix 'if they spread and fix 'if it scares the process. And, not to speak of figures, to speak of concrete projects and news that have come out these past weeks, in fact less than a week ago: Covestro, in Tarragona, had decided to shut down the plant; reconsider. Therefore, we have Covestro's plant working as a minimum until the year 2020, and it will have the full support of the Government of Catalonia because it is not only until the year 2020, but also because it continues. Therefore, one hundred and twenty places of work to go to the street will not go and remain. And it's not Barcelona, it's Tarragona, because we're also worried about the industry that's not just around metropolity. But Covestro's decision has other positive effects; for example, it accompanies a decision that makes Ercros in Vila-seca, to make a transformation of its technology and, therefore, to keep the production of chlorine in Vila-seca. Moreover, these decisions have an effect on a particularly affected territory, which is Flix, which has a part of this production, of these companies, which have to be folded and, thanks to these decisions, the workers will be able to continue. But if we don't look at Flix, but look at Viladecavalls, or look at Sant Guim de Freixenet, or look at Rubí, which is where Ficosa is, it turns out that Ficosa will now be part of an international leading group, that is a multinational, Panasonic, that has confidence in the country, and that will make it its research and development very high depending on the car, the mobility and the electric vehicle. And these are the concrete news that goes well for the country's economy and product fabric.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.49.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the financing of schools in Bressol]] [[310-00191/11]] Seven questions to the Government, on the financing of the Bressol schools, formulated for Mr Carles Riera, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.50.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. We have learned that your department has applied a set-up for the financing of public schools to the financing of concerted schools. We want to ask him what his criteria are on the political legitimacy of this decision and on the priorities he sets out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.51.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.52.0	Thank you, Madam President. So, honourable Member, the first thing we should do is put that moment in context. We are aware that the Government of the country at that time was living the harshest circumstances for which the Generalitat had passed, and, therefore, what it did was to guarantee the payment of the under-workers, because, as you know, to the workers of the education service of Catalonia, all the names pay them the department of the Generalitat, and, so that they can guarantee a right and, obviously, a legal obligation, what the Government did at that time were changes of creed, which is a presuppositionary technique to be able to guarantee the payment of the names.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.53.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.54.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, we believe that this decision is not only legally questionable, but above all – and in this we want to put the focus – very politically questionable, since it involves a shift of resources from public ownership centres to centres that are in the past privately owned, and which makes it clear that the priority of their department, if not at that time, to the detriment of assemblies and families, was not to meet their commitments with the bressol schools, but to satisfy the concerts, including the elite schools and manifestly segregating. Certainly, we know that the parliaments partially cover the financing from zero to three years, but obviously also to the detriment of other parties of municipal finance and without reaching the cent_per_cent of what was to be the departure of their department destined to these schools bressol. We, as you know, believe that a single, universal and free network of public ownership centres is the only guarantee of fairness and non-segregation in the school system, starting with the schools in Bressol, which we already know now that as yet, unfortunately, they are not part of the compulsory teaching, but it is an essential teaching, not only if we meet educational criteria, but above all criteria of equity and equality of opportunity for families in this country. In the present mandate, counsel, do you think your department complements with the priority that this Parliament has given to donating to the financing of schools in Bressol?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.55.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.56.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. MP, look if it's legal what it was done, and the presuppositional changes are quite common, that I'm taking another year, in 2009, which is a year when there was no crisis: there were forty-one presuppositional changes to the Department of Education. And I take another year: they send 150/2010; the year 2010, in another circumstance, the government of that moment also made transfers, transfers of credit from the departure of children's lars to the payment of the nominees of concerts. Therefore, this is the right and obligation we have. But aside from saying this: listen to me, we have different models, that's true, but what we are clear is that education is a priority. At that time they didn't let go of the gatherings, but, as you said, they went to the congresses to ask that they finance without that which the Spanish government stopped financing. And, look, who's the will of this government? So, of course, this government's will, and that's why we're working, and that's why we're going to approve assumptions today, is to have all the resources to finance education and all those basic services. Unfortunately, this country still does not have those resources and those efforts that its citizens make. Therefore, the will, clear: to dispose of all our resources. That is why we have reached an agreement today and we can approve these assumptions, although we are aware that this is not yet the issue that Catalonia deserves, but that our country, with the fiscal effort that it is doing, and the deficit, would need and have much more resources. And, therefore, our will is, as we go to recover the available resources, to finance, obviously, as we have always done, as we have done before, the children's lars; but also to increase professional training, inclusive school..., money that our citizens pay and that they must go to our schools. Not only that, but we also – we have commented on it another time – rethink the funding model of children's homes, because what we want is that above all it is an educational stage for those students who need it most, for those for whom school is above all equal opportunities and progress. Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.57.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the appointment of the new director of TV3]] [[310-00193/11]] Vuitena asks the Government, about the appointment of the new director of TV3, formulated for the lady Andrea Levy, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.58.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Junqueras, what do you think of the change of director on TV3?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.59.0	Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.60.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I do not agree with Vice-President Junqueras, but in any case I will answer your question with great pleasure. [[The vice president of the government and councillors of Economy and History says: "For my misfortune, eh? Rialles.]] Madam MP, as you perfectly know, the governing board of the corporation endorsed the appointment of the new director. This is explained in the statement that immediately afterwards they were taken. Of course this sale, to the control committee of the corporation, here in Parliament, will have occasion to give all the explanations that you need. In any case, I can say that the procedure for selecting and naming the new director is what is foreseen and regulated in the 2007 Corporation Law, and that it is exactly the same procedure that was followed for the appointment of all directors and directors of the corporation from the time of approval of the law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.61.0	Thank you, Counselor. I got the word "Mrs. Levy."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.62.0	I was intentionally going. Too bad Mrs. Munté answered. We wanted to know the opinion of Mr. Junqueras, the opinion of Esquerra Republicana, because his, that of Convergence, in short..., you are now a mutant party, but you are the same Convergence as usual, the same one that sat Mr. Artur Mas yesterday on the governing council. Warning, Mr Junqueras, and warning to the gentlemen of the UPC, because the trash of history what is clear is that it has been a recycling container, and that is why yesterday we saw Mr Artur Mas again on the governing council. We knew it, because the Convergence spokesman said it in the Audiovisual Media Commission. He didn't like the previous director of TV3; he didn't like anything. He didn't like it, because he already missed us getting the Palau case out so much on TV3. You have wanted to impose an omertà, you have wanted to impose a regime of silence on TV3, and that is why you have changed director on TV3. Hence his new record: a journalist who has manifested himself clearly – clearly – saying that the process of the Palau case was a process against Catalonia and against Convergence, that it is clear that to you, to the Convergence people, it seems the same thing as the other. Do you know what's going on? , that the problem is not TV3, but its instrumentalization as a propaganda apparatus of the process. Yesterday a Catalunya Ràdio presenter said PP and PSOE were ultraphalangists; today a counselor from her government has said that Citizens are ultraphalangists too. [[Widow's remorse.]] Is that a coincidence? No, no, It's a process, and its shamelessness. [[Greetings.]] Look, the problem isn't TV3. For a long time, the Catalans were watching TV3, but now we've detonated that chain, that chain that you're instrumental in spreading your ideological propaganda. « The great forgotten of TV3: that could be a program that made the new director of TV3. Those same forgotten ones, those same absent ones that do not count the Government of the Generalitat. Of course, we would thank the new director of TV3 that apart from making the propaganda of the process, that apart from covering to you the shames of the Palau case on TV3 also took into account that plurality that is Catalonia, and if, of course, they tuned with it, things would be much better for us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.63.0	Thank you, Mrs. Levy. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.64.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. I've got a few things clear from your intervention. You say: "The problem is not TV3, but obviously the problem is TV3. TV3 is a public television, which does a public service, which defends and promotes Catalan language, which offers quality, contrasted, plural information that respects all ideologies. [[Widow's remorse.]] They can laugh what they want – they can laugh what they want. Maybe it's you– you– who don't tune in because TV3, despite the huge context difficulties and the huge competition, is the audience leader for seven years. And it competes with televisions that triple the premise and have legislative marks and much more flexible assumptions. I hope you don't want to tell the city and the citizens of Catalonia what television you need to watch; because they spontaneously listen to TV3, and also Catalonia Radio, obviously, to find out. And they value it very positively, for its credibility and for its professionalism. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The problem is not TV3, of course not! The problem must be those of those who do not share their ideological line or the one thought you try to impose. I have made this very clear, and I also make it very clear what its concept of politics and government is. They're not coming to give us lessons, honourable Member, because then I'll remind you who was the director chosen and appointed for his government to direct Spanish Television, which is Mr Eladio Jareño, who was the head of communication of the president of the People's Party of Catalonia, of Mrs. Alicia Sánchez-Camacho. [[Widow's remorse.]] So those who need to be tuned in are you... [[applause]] Those who must speak with knowledge of cause are you. What I can assure you one more time, I have done many times, is that, from the Government of Catalonia, we like it more or less – we like it more or less – what we feel, what we see, both from public television and from any other communication media – I suppose we can have our opinion; we can also, of course, defend our public media, which do a huge service to cohesion, plurality and, of course, also, of course, to our language. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.65.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the government about the payment of you see the fishermen]] [[310-00194/11]] Ninth question to the government, about the payment of you see the fishermen. Formulated for Ms. Hortènsia Grau, of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.66.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, we would like to show all solidarity with the Barcelona Fishermen's Conference and the hope of being able to find the two missing sailors of El Fairell. A vessel..., well, vessels – vessels of redness, of the circle, of the longline, of the light, of the different fishing arts – which, you will advise, you already know, if they do not catch, neither the shipowners nor the sailors who are on board. Donating of course that the Government is collecting the biological stops, you see them, that they are necessary for the recovery of the stocks of the fisheries, and knowing that the Government has rejected the European Community financing, the co-financing of the State, which is through the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, our question is what is today shipowners and fishermen of Tarragona and Girona, and that is: why have you not been paid to see that they were made in 2014-15 if the programme has already been approved since November 2015? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.67.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Grau. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Serret, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.68.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, thank you for the question and, above all, on behalf of the Government of the Generality, like you and I believe that everyone in the room, too, is in solidarity with fishermen and families for the tragic accident of this day. As far as you see, as you say, we give all the support. We are driving these sustainable fisheries programmes through co-management. And, as far as you can see, to the system of seeing aids, you know that they are helpers who have renationalized and refocused on the part of the ministry in the past FEMP, and that, with all the money, if I am not mistaken, more than 27 million dollars that the Spanish State of the European Union has received in view of the 2014-15, it has not allocated a single euro to the payment of seeing aids. Therefore, since the Generality, together with the sector, since we arrived at the council we have been demanding and insisting on all sectoral conferences and the ministry that give these aid to the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.69.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word "Mrs. Grau."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.70.0	Counselor, we asked... – our Group in the Senate and the European Parliament – we asked both Parliament and the Senate, and they answered us. We have here the response of the Government of the State, the money that goes to the communities both to the 2014-2015 annuities as 2016. We know, since 2016, that 1.2_million have been paid; but with the money that is paid, for the other annuities, they have not been paid. I mean, we don't know what that money was meant for. And of course, we're also surprised that when shipowners and fishers ask for it from some of the views of the council, it's said that no one forced them to do so. And this one knows you're not an answer, Counselor. So, we'd like to know what happened to that money. We also want to know why you see them in 2016, if the money went into April and May, they didn't pay until the end of 2016, beginnings of 2017. Finally, counsel, we know that they are compromised and that they are struggling because sailors can also charge not only for the fifteen days, but for the whole time. We also want to know if you see them in 2017, that there has not yet been a sectoral conference, but some fisheries have already made them, this question will be resolved. And, quite briefly, already, to finish, advise, the theme of the sees will not be paid by the sailors and the shipowners of their wages, because maintaining well the state of the sea, the state of the fisheries is an ecological responsibility of all, and social, and, therefore, we have to pay among all. And it is not possible to ask the sailors that the month they do not go fishing does not cover, because their families must eat. Therefore, let us hope that the Government of Catalonia has this sensitivity and can resolve it. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.71.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.72.0	Thank you. Totally agree, Congresswoman. And I insist: they are measures that are re-centralised. The money goes to the ministry, and the ministry decides what it's going to do with it. And the 2014 and 2015 aids decided they weren't meant for viewing aids, and we've been demanding them since the first moment. For what he does to see them of 2016, as you know, the same government of the Generality, the Department of Agriculture, the May of 2016 we presupposedly advanced the money in order to be able to pull forward the call. And, in fact, we have been the..., I would say that if not the only, the autonomous community, above all, of the Mediterranean arc, which has resolved, and which has resolved positively. Because he also knows that the criteria that the ministry set were very restrictive, and until we enabled proper mechanisms to effect the payment, we couldn't. And that's why it slowed down so much at the calendar level. But we are the autonomous community that made the payment. There are not many who have not resolved or finished calling for help, because of the mechanisms imposed by the ministry. Therefore, 2014-2015, we continue to claim, totally at the cost of the sector, these moneys that legitimately correspond to them; 2016 we made the payment. And what are we claiming for 2017? As you say: that the sectoral conference is called. Because on the dates we are also missing the 2017 viewing aids because of the inopportunity of the ministry. And we are, too, claiming that the help the sailor has to equip himself, as at least, with the help of the weather, and that the importance is that which establishes the same European legislation. We want all the rights for our fleet and our sailors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.73.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about his position in relation to the model of management of the water administration service]] [[317-00130/11]] Desena question, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political and social situation, formulated for the lady Mireia Boya, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.74.0	Good morning, everybody. Today is World Water Day and we, however, have a lot to claim and a lot to celebrate. In fact, we come from the approval of a covert transfer of the Secret to Barcelona, via the auxiliary channels; and, from transfers, we do not want nor impose for the Government of the Spanish State nor imposed for the Government of Catalonia. In fact, we also come from a week-long battle for public water management in Terrassa. A week in which the two banners, if we may say so, we have measured the forces and the complicitys. For one band, we have the manager, the company Mina, which celebrated its one hundred seventy-five anniversary; for the other, the popular cry for water remunicipalization that was manifested for the first time by the streets of the city. The economic powers hold files with Mina, and civil society, the majority of assembly politics, more than any other entity, associations, unions and political parties, both at national and local level, demand democracy and municipal autonomy. What's the status of the government?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.75.0	Thank you very much, Miss Boya. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.76.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member of Parliament, the Government is very sensitive to the universal right of water, which represents water. The government is committed to doing everything that is within its grasp and to supporting those administrations that are taking care of, to ensure control of this right. And this right can be guaranteed with various forms of management – public management, public-private management, private management – whenever the guarantee of this right is observed and respected.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.77.0	Thank you very much, President. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.78.0	We knew you were defending all water management models. In fact, Counsellor Rull was on the anniversary of the company Mina. Still, we think that water is a common good, that it's a human right. And his government is located every time more on the side of the market, the opacity of management and private interests. There is a cry on the street not only for water, but for those basic services in private hands. People are asking to recover the sovereignty of all public services. We ask for management models: transparent and, above all, democratic. And since we are in a democratic process and the government is flagging for the national question of democracy, we would like to suggest that the Generalitat doni also support who bets on the democratic management of an appeal. And that means that when there is a dispute between a government that has sorted public management and a company that wants to prevent it, there is no doubt about what it cost to settle. It must be situated on the coast of the city, of autonomy, of the local government, of the municipalism, collaborating in the processes of recovery of the sovereigns. And now that the process is coming, when we win the referendum, the debate on the rights will open to the new republic. It will be useful to talk about the fundamental rights to the Catalan constitution. President, will water be a public universal right to guarantee all citizens or will it be an object of negotiation? In whose hands do you want the natural resources: the municipalities and the people or the multinationals?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.79.0	Thank you, Miss Boya. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.80.0	Thank you very much. Madam Member, I believe that I have been explicit in considering that water is indeed a universal right, that it is a public good, but that there are several models to guarantee this right and to put at the bottom of the population this public good, with the highest and best conditions of quality, accessibility, and also social cohesion. And here are some success stories with the three management models that I've been thinking about and better cases in the three models. Presuming that only public management can be effective and private management is ineffective is based on a demonstrable falsehood based on the experiences we have on the map of the different management models that exist in Catalonia; but in any case, what is indispensable is the universal right to water. Secondly, I would like to clarify some statement that you made earlier about the existence of an alleged covert transfer to Barcelona. There is no transfer to Barcelona, which is a transfer from Rialp to the regions of Segarra and Urgell, which are conca de l'Ebre, i– yes – to two municipalities of Anoia, which total 380 inhabitants, and eight from the Conca de Barbera that in sum 3,400, which certainly – certainly – are not directly to the conca de l'Ebre. But you need to know that they are municipalities that have serious water supply problems, that water has to reach them often with cisterns and that, therefore, the government has to do everything possible, according to the territory, to guarantee this universal right that you claimed and that I also do mine. At the same time, I think that when we talk about water, we need to put another element in value: we are in a country where more than 97 per cent of the population lives in a territory with clean water. And this is a tape obtained thanks to the Catalan Water Agency, a public water policy, which, with all the models of management on the table, is able to guarantee this: that more than 97 percent of the population of Catalonia lives in territories with clean water.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.81.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the request to make a lecture to the Senate]] [[317-00131/11]] Eleventh question, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation, formulated for Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.82.0	Thank you. Mr. President, we've known you've asked the Senate to hold a conference or a meeting. And I have to tell you that we are happy with that news, we are glad that you are coming to the Spanish institutions because, Mr Puigdemont, the Spanish institutions are your home, and they are your home because you are Spanish, even if you don't know it, eh? – even if I don't know. [[Remove from sight and some Members pick with the hands of the bait.]] I would like to tell you, Mr Puigdemont, that we are surprised, however, that when you are summoned to a meeting in the Senate with the rest of the presidents of the autonomous communities to give a voice to the millions of Catalans defending the interests and priorities we have, you do not attend and, instead, you intend to attend a meeting alone, absolutely marginalized from the world. In the Senate, the Commission of Autonomous Communities is envisaged as the space, as the appropriate forum of dignity so that the autonomous presidents and, therefore, you can go and present what they think is appropriate. Mr Puigdemont, why did you ask for a room instead of meeting or appearing in the Commission of the Autonomous Communities?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.83.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.84.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Albiol, by your words, I assume that my petition to the Senate will be heard and, therefore, that we will soon have the joyful news that the Senate will also open the doors to the President of Catalonia, the Vice-President and the Councillor Romeva, that we have requested to make a conference. And the second thing I derive from your intervention, and I'm also happy to be even more, is that you have an interest in watching it, and it doesn't happen, that we reserve a place for you in the front row. [[Give me the applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.85.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.86.0	President, I'm afraid, for the empty answer that I just gave, what I'm trying to do is reorganize a number, reorganize an event. Obviously, the doors of the Senate are open to you, as President of the Generality, to the Vice President and to any member of this Government. But the one who touches, the one who surrounds, no longer for a question of dignity of his person, but, Mr Puigdemont, for which you represent, is that when you enter the Senate you do it by the big door and you do it in the proper way. And the right mark, since he didn't attend the conference of presidents, is to do it to the Commission of Autonomous Communities. And there you will be able to explain absolutely everything, including to what he likes to repeat so much and knows perfectly that it will not produce, that it is the secessionist reference. Therefore, ask you, Mr Puigdemont, that in respect of the institution that you represent attend to the Senate, tell what you consider opportune. If you consider it, I will be happy to be there, to accompany you, even though I disagree with all the certainty you will say, but act once, once and for all, like the president of all, of all Catalans. Do they know what their problem is? Its problem is that the report of the process was done, it was done because each time they had less support on the part of the Catalan people, every time the Catalans we are more aware that what we are living is a situation that does not lead to place and what the majority want, what we want the majority is that once and for all it is dedicated to prioritizing what is really important to the majority, which is not exactly the process. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.87.0	Thank you, Mr. García. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.88.0	Mr Albiol, well, from the words of today I guess that you have changed all the kind, very kind words that all of you have dedicated to us yesterday, in which of the « demented, « bojos, « pallassos e un seguito de improperis..., have now passed to say some things a more own hair – some things a weaker hair – as « number, « event. Miri, when the Vice-President, the Councillor Romeva and I asked for this conference to be given to the European Parliament, believe me, none of us in the European Parliament corresponded to it: "No, they do something else, or: "They do not come to make a number or an event, we simply agreed in the day, in the hour, how we organized it and went to the sea of good. And I thought, I say, "Home, what you did to the European Parliament – which is actually also my home, the European Parliament – "and which went so well, it would be good if we could do it to the Senate too, because it is not an alien institution to this Parliament. You're a senator for this Parliament in that chamber. Therefore, as it is not an alien institution in this Parliament, we thought: "So what has gone so well in Europe, and Europe has had a great deal of success for what we have said, let us see, let us try to do it in the Senate. Let's see if what I tried, without success, is to convert the conference of presidents..., which is to put that point that says Catalonia's political situation.... let's see if that's what it is, maybe that people who don't want to listen to you like at least the education to come to a conference. That, indeed, the Senate is a_marc, I believe, very adequate; it is not entering through the back door. You're proposing that we do something that is a study commission or a committee of autonomous communities that no one has asked to convene. It seems, indeed, that this is a occurrence to correspond to an invitation that..., to a petition made by the President of the Generality, but not... Believe me, we only hope that the Senate will have the same sensitivities that it has now held when..., today we have received the invitation to attend the bullfighting awards to be held in the Senate, from the association of parliamentarians in favor of the bullfighting, and that it did not pose any problems because there is a possibility to hold an act of these characteristic ones. If that's possible, believe me, do what you can as the senator of this Parliament, do what you can because the Senate gives us prompt permission to do that conference on April 24. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.89.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the approval of the draft draft law of assumptions of the Generalitat for 2017 relating to the financing of the schools in Bressol]] [[317-00132/11]] Dotzena question, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation, formulated for Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.90.0	Thank you, President. President, if everything goes as it has to go from here, you will finally have assumptions. And as it happened yesterday, there is a whole series of important issues that were adopted in committee and that will be voted on here. One of them, rising strength, is that which the Government of the Generality urges to regain its commitment to the Bressol schools, specifically for which it makes a contribution of 1,600 euros per square. If this item ends up feeling, finally, adopted and incorporated into the assumptions, is your government committing to pull it forward? And another question in relation to this: count, your government, somehow, to reschedule the gatherings that were affected by that alternative administration of the 81_million euros that made in your day Mrs Rigau?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.91.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.92.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, I hope you'll come by in a moment, when you vote for the papers, it's that there's a responsibility exercise, that's what the citizens who are looking at you are waiting for, that we don't use the papers like plantain skins or soft weapons to see whether the government is soaking up or not, but we don't really believe in the bondage of the papers. Because you need to know that the items are – yesterday it was calculated – about 6,000_million euros more, and that's not serious – that's not serious – believe me. I think you know that. Even so, it seemed to me to deduce from some intervention yesterday that there was, at last, a stupefaction, on the part of drafters, for the fact that it is possible to approve the drafts that they propose; which is already up and about to steal, in other words, the most absolute surprise. I hope there's a responsibility exercise. Honestly, I invite you to participate in this responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.93.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.94.0	Yes, thank you, President. Listen, what's smart is that you tell us you're going to disobey what Parliament votes on. Clearly, disobedience is beginning to be very selective. What's smart is managing a majority of government, to which 1,200 items are attached. This shows that you..., listen, do not make your incompetence a pride, a pride motive, or responsibility for the opposition to make proposals for budgetary change, especially when you are denied – are denied – to approve, or to adopt or discuss only so seriously those proposals of the opposition that are intended to increase, to increase the Generality's capacity to recover. Because the problem of the background – the problem of the background – is that..., we are already beginning to be convinced that, in the background, you assumptions as long as they're done – forgive the expression. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, finally—finally—here—because Mr. Junqueras has worked perfectly—perfectly—with extended assumptions that he could, in copy of transfers and to generate us believe, manage as he wanted without being held accountable to anyone. Therefore, this government works very well without presuppositions. What you can't do is move to opposition, like an interrogation, to express your little ability to co-ordinate its government majority. That's the background problem. And the problem of money gets worse when Parliament sets up like you, because ultimately what we vote for will be a law, you say earlier that they will no longer complete it or look for a way to do it; this is particularly difficult. I insist, his disobedience is every time more oriented to Catalan institutions than anything else.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.95.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.96.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, the problem with the answer prepared for the advance is that you make me say things I haven't said. At what point did I speak of the word "disobedience"? I didn't talk about it – I didn't talk about it. You're telling me that, well, it's very hard for me to say that I think I'm disobeying. I didn't say that. I've made an appeal to a responsibility exercise. Look, let's do something. You vote for these items that say they are so important because these assumptions are ultimately the assumptions that the people of Catalonia need, you vote in favour of the assumptions. Doing an obedience exercise, not disobeying, is not disobeying yourself and voting against assumptions that will incorporate the issues that you consider essential because they are good assumptions for the country. You have another little problem, and it's that I heard you say yesterday, regret that we didn't get the majority or support enough for a change in the tickets. Well, you didn't get this majority. It is you who have a problem articulating around your proposal for political cohesion because of what you consider to be done. There is a problem, there are more people who vote on the way they hear, or who will vote on the way they hear how we approach tickets than their proposal. It's that simple. For all you say is: achieve your majority alternatives, achieve them, and if they do not, therefore, respect the majority that comes out of this Parliament in the form that comes out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.97.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the willingness to negotiate an agreement for a reference agreement expressed by the Government and about progress in relation to the remaining points of the document delivered to the President of the Government of the State]] [[317-00129/11]] Thirteen questions to the President of the Generality on the political situation formulated by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.98.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, allow 'but in the first place take advantage of the intervention to congratulate the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra for its anti-gihadist operation to Osona. I think it's worth all of us congratulating each other and making a success of the fight against a threat that's for everyone. But the question that I wanted to ask you has to see precisely with the process of conversations, dialogue, negotiation, let's say it as usual, with the Government of Spain. We read carefully his article published with Vice President Junqueras in which he called for the negotiation, the agreement to make a reference on independence. I'd like to know if on the margins of this the rest of the forty-five points on which you have expressed a desire for dialogue with the government have undergone any change in the time we carry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.99.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.100.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. I welcome her..., in short, her congratulations to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, which for us is a body that is doing exemplary work in the fight..., also in the fight against terrorism, not only, but also in the fight against terrorism. And that would require, yes, the support and complicity of the Spanish State to be able to guarantee better this struggle, having the information that it is at the expense of other police bodies and the need for coordination with international bodies that also have relevant information to be able to face this threat, because it is a global threat. Secondly, I also thank him for his consideration of the article and the petition we have reiterated. It's not the first time we've done it; it's true that it's the first time we've done it in article format and published in a state broadcast diary, but it's not the first news you have, from our disposition to the dial. Now, "did anything move? You're asking. So, sadly, no – sadly, no. For what we deduce and for what it seems to explain the press, the week that sees, casually, taking advantage of the fact that I will not be here – I will be away, travelling – President Rajoy will come to make a follow-up of announcements that we do not know much more about.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.101.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.102.0	President, from the same cordiality as today's dispensation, I must say to you: the negotiation of a reference on independence to me..., I see it very difficult. But it's impossible if it's from a premise that you skip the law, disobey the Constitutional Court, ignore the Board of State Guarantees, and launch the ultimate to make it one of the illegal ones in September. From my point of view, make a reference in the conditions that you seem to have decided to do so, as of November 9, 2014, in which a participatory process was produced, with a very remarkable mobilization of more than 2_million people, but without the political effect that it was seeking and, moreover, with the temporary disqualification of valuable people. I think it's a weakly condemned way, and so I'm going to recommend that you don't use it again. But I wanted to ask you about the rest of the questions that were in the memo that you addressed to President Rajoy; because it is also a matter of discussion, and it is a matter of opinion, but a negotiation that poses as required in anticipation of the report on independence probably does not serve to unlock the rest of the questions, and there were very important questions for Catalans. There was funding, there were scholarships, there were investments, there was the rolling stock, the airport management, competition conflicts, special work centres, etc. And, therefore, we would be interested to know whether the negotiating strategy of the Government also contemplates the possibility of moving forward in other lands. And, lastly, President, I fully understand the answer you have given to Mr. García Albiol. But believe me: if there is a chance to go to the Senate, not just to make a conference, but to make a debate with senators and officials of other autonomous communities, I do not lose the opportunity.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.103.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.104.0	Yes, thank you very much. Mr. Iceta, I'm glad you said that the negotiation of a reference to the very difficult view, but that, ultimately, despite the enormous difficulty, you see a small margin. I only ask him to help us. If you think there's a small margin, tell 'indiscretion in what..., from this margin you can count on your help because this reference can be so difficult. In any case, I left it, to illustrate it, so that you had adequate information about these forty-five points that you mentioned... Actually, there were a few that made reference to what you said. There was no other that, repeatedly – and Councillor Jané made a type –, ugly reference to the call of the Security Board, which has to see with the first part of his intervention on the effectiveness of the Mossos in the fight against Gihadist terrorism. So, miri, he hasn't called yet. I don't know how many times, Councilman Jané... we sent cards. We're absolutely available to you. They didn't even get to fix a date. And, finally, you tell me that the questions of financing, of scholarships, of rolling stock, of special work centres, that I understand that you consider them to be just demands, the Spanish Government does not reach them because here we have the opinion to make a reference on the independence of Catalonia? If you say that, the Spanish government does a chanting – it does a chanting – and it undermines the conscience of the rights of the citizens of Catalonia to have a financing system, a scholarship system, a roll-up system and policies and a few foundations of the special work centres as they deserve. They don't refuse to say to us: "If you want to talk about things you have right, give up your ideas. That's not a waste.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.105.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the qualification of the assumptions of the Generality for 2017 and on the prioritization of the parties for the referendum]] [[317-00128/11]] Fourteenth question to the President of the Generality on the political situation, formulated for the lady Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.106.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Puigdemont, in 2013 you said that the budgets for that year were the last autonomous budgets. How would you rate this year's budgets? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.107.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.108.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, I will answer you exactly with the words that I did mention on more than one occasion to define the moment: they are the assumptions of post-autonomy and pre-independence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.109.0	Thank you, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.110.0	Thank you, Mr. Puigdemont. Just as it was a lie that the 2013 ones were the last of autonomy, for it is a lie that these are those of pre-independence. Which you can be the ones of post-truth, who like you so much. Look, we're a responsible opposition and we don't ask for impossible. But these budgets are bad for Catalans. And I'm just going to give you one example. In these budgets, zero euros – zero – are allocated to day care centres, and they keep the waiting list in the longest dependence of the whole of Spain. Do you know who's going to pay for this, Mr. Puigdemont? Catalan women, most of whom bear family burdens. But this does not matter to you, because you are very comfortable in your seat of the process. Moreover, later, for your own sake, you do find money, because for Mr Junqueras' little toy of the Catalan hacienda you have found 60 million euros more, without having more taxes to collect. Or for Mr Romeva you have found money to increase 25_per_cent of your budget, so that then you meet with the extreme right of Finland, which is what you do. I ask him: Does he not notice that, in his budgets, in these budgets, there are more salaries for high offices, more chiringuitos for independence, more taxes for the Catalan middle class and more barracks where children are going to study? Don't you notice? Moreover, they are not only socially unfair, but they are illegal, as the Council of State Guarantees has unanimously told you, which you have chosen here, in these seats. Their budgets are unfair, illegal and unreal. Because I ask you, Mr Puigdemont: stop lying to the Catalans. You won't be able to jump over the laws, and don't take so much breasts out here, that then before the judge you have the courage to stay at the courthouse door. And neither are you going to hold any referendums, and you know it. Stop doing the paripé, please; stop lying, because they are also cheating on the independenceists in good faith, which I always tell you. I remind you: according to your road map, in June you would have to be declaring independence, and now you are talking again about repeating the 9-N and the 'neverendum'. That's not useful for Catalans. I think it is much more useful, for example, what citizens have done to achieve today's budgetary commitment for the Mediterranean corridor. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Since he likes marine metaphors so much, I say to him: his Titanic has clashed with reality and is sinking, and now you ask the desperate, in public, but especially in private, a political floater. You're in Madrid asking for floaters, lifeguards and cuffs because you don't know how to get out of the mess you've been in. I tell you, your ship is sinking, but what we're not going to allow is to drag us all Catalans with you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.111.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.112.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, you, referring to the marine half-hours, I think you've made a mistake as president. It's not this president, he likes marine midfielders, but it's the same. In any case, I have already understood that it worked for you because of this narrative engineering that you deploy, with an accuracy of the terminology that you use, because whenever you refer to some institution of the Generality they speak of "xiringuitos". That's a lot of respect. This is, in short, very respectful of the will of the majority of the people of Catalonia..., to consider that what the others are doing is always a great lie, it's all a post-truth, it's all a "syringuit", it's all a great disaster. But, go, in any case, Mrs. Arrimadas, you will see that in this Parliament you advance the legislature with the approval of the premise. From the beginning of the legislature the absoluts of this execution and of this legislature sing, and we will arrive at the end of the divisions, which you ridiculed so much, you have done the work. And what worries them is this. It is that we have done the work, the work in the two agendas: the agenda of going kept, as it was in evidence today, so does it if it speaks of economy as if it speaks of salvation, as if it speaks of teaching... Certainly, EUR 400 million more to teach: more teachers, more resources; more resources, precisely, to schools with special educational needs. So much for housing. Certainly, he threatened the Parliament another time, unanimously approving a law..., a new threat from the Spanish Government, which considers unconstitutional the articles approved for this chamber; certainly with favorable reports from everyone– from everyone. So, well, despite this, we carry this agenda that gives good results for Catalonia, and we also carry an agenda that is inseparable from social progress, which is the national agenda, to give to this people, to this country, to that country, to which the European Union, with great pride, claims in motion the sixty years of the Treaty of Rome. Look at the European Union video and you'll see that it says: "We demand the right to decide. So, sir, it's a European right: the right to decide is a European right. If you do not want to bet on this European right that the same European Union makes its own and claims as a guarantee of democracy, coexistence and cohesion, it is its problem, but this is a government compromised with the founding values of Europe, among which, as you well recognize..., the sixtieth anniversary of the Treaty of Rome..., are at the basis of European construction. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.113.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the government's dialogue and its expectations regarding the state government's attitude]] [[317-00133/11]] Fifteenth question to the President of the Generality on the latest political developments, formulated by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.114.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honourable presidents, we also want to refer to the article that came out this week signed for you and the vice president under the title "That I win the dialog, that I decide the ballots. And we want to refer to it so that it connects with many things. First of all, because the willingness of this government to speak on the issue of this legislature has always been there and since the zero minute, as it has been in previous legislatures. And the proof of that is all the resolutions that we have adopted in this Parliament, with which we have always called on the dialogue and the preference that if all this can be agreed with the State we prefer all of them, and that goes from the declaration of sovereignty that we were going to make at the beginning of 2013 until the declaration of 9 November 2015. And this writing that they did this end of the week is very clear and very explicit also in this dialing, isn't it? But what is the answer that we see on the other side? For a band, a cosmetic operation called ‘dialogue operation, which basically consists of talking to almost everyone about almost everything, except talking to who it touches. And what he's playing is what, since he hasn't been in any other country, he's been mobilizing for five million years. And we find ourselves in this weaving. He did not only want to talk about what he plays with, who he plays with, who he is with the government, but also the State continues to shoot judicially at everything that is moving from the Parliament of Catalonia. And you have made reference, and we want to make reference; because it is very curious that all those who say that we have to deal with things that concern the people, before the threat of the Government of the State to resort against a law so important to avoid the charges against the most vulnerable people in this country, neither did they mention it nor did they come here with the patched-in disk, the same question every time, and did not ask for what you are dealing with the people. As you speak today of the assumptions and threaten to go to the Constitutional Court, assumptions that will allocate hundreds of millions more to social policies, and you take up in your speech to 0.02 of the assumptions. Who deals with real problems and people's ambitions? So I stop having the pleasure of saying that we take care of the things they occupy and worry about the people. And, yes, this week's head may come the carabasser father to re-advertise how many things, but they've already announced it so many times that we hope that at least this time it's original. And that's why, President, we want to ask him what his government's willingness is to respect the dialogue and what expectations they have to respect the government's government's dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.115.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Turull. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.116.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Turull, we committed ourselves to never abandoning the dial table, where we are sure from the minute or from the legislature. It's true that there's no one in the other band yet. Maybe we haven't tried yet, huh? That's why we did the article, that's why we want to go and explain to us, that's why there's the National Reference Pact, that's why there's a follow-up of initiatives that go in the line of claiming that the policy that we discussed in the article the vice president and I had said and that we shared: that in democracy the right not to dialogue does not exist. We wanted to practice it. On what grounds? From the start, without any condition on the other side. We do not ask the Spanish Government to talk about giving up its idea of the unity of Spain. No, no, What we ask of him is that we cannot condition ourselves..., that in order to talk to us, he will tell us « yes and « no of the rest, because this proves that the problem is no longer the dialect. The problem is another one. It is a very archaic conception of what must be the relationship between Catalonia and Spain. It is not a problem, that of Catalonia and Spain..., between the Autonomous Community of Galicia, or of Andalusia, or of Extremadura. It's not. We don't have a problem with Spanish Autonomous Communities. It's a problem with the State, it's a problem with the conception of the State. It's a problem that goes all the way and that's inspired by attitudes like what we've seen and suffered from this Parliament and that I was thinking about the answer to Mrs. Arrimadas. How is it possible that we agree in this Parliament to approve a housing law, with literal phrases from the People's Party spokesman who say: "It is an exceptional text for an exceptional moment, "there were two paths: a text to make propaganda, to search for rock, or to find a real solution for the most vulnerable, and this second path was sorted out? So, well, those words didn't work either because the state government considers a law that seeks to protect the most vulnerable. Neither has this served, nor the unanimity of this chamber, nor these praiseworthy words which the spokesman of the People's Party dedicated to us in that debate, because the Government initiated the second offensive against a law approved by the Parliament of Catalonia. The problem is, Mr. Turull, that Mr. Alejandro's words always weigh a lot, saying: "I represent the aspirations of many Catalans who have not lost their sereneness and understand that separatism is a dementia that first hurts Catalonia. So while there's this conception, which we've heard so many times, it won't allow Spain to understand that at the table of the dialog we have to cry from home and above all from the damage it has to do with the position of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.117.0	Thank you, President. After the control session, let's move to the next point of the order of the day. [[Appointment of the Members of the Board of Directors for the 2017 budgetary period]] [[231-00002/11]] The third item on the agenda is the appointment of the MPs for the 2017 budgetary period. I pray to the first secretary, Mrs Anna Simó, who gives reading to the agreement of the Enlarged Bureau that proposes the MPs interveners.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.118.0	« Proposal to the Plenary : the Enlarged Bureau, at its plenary session on 14 March 2017, in accordance with Rule 37.5 of the Rules, agrees to propose to the Plenary the appointment of Roger Torrent and Ramió, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Sí ; d'Antonio Espinosa Cerrato, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, and of Jordi Terrades and Santacreu, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as well as deputy speakers for the budgetary period of 2017. Palau del Parlament, March 14, 2017.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.119.0	Is this proposal approved for consent? [[Pause.]] Speakers for the 2017 budgetary period are appointed by Mr Roger Torrent, Mr Antonio Espinosa and Mr Jordi Terrades. Finally, we will continue to vote on the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the draft law on the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2017. [[Project of the law of assumptions of the Generalitat de Catalunya for 2017 (continuation)]] [[200-00019/11]] Before proceeding to the vote on the proposals and the opinion of the Presumables Bill, I must inform you that the Secretary-General and the Major have submitted a note which will be read to you by the first Vice-President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.120.0	"To the President of Parliament and to the members of the Bureau: the Secretary-General and the President-in-Office, we wish to inform the Bureau that we consider that the vote on the thirty-first additional provision of the Draft Law on Presumables of the Generality for 2017, with the text contained in the Commission's opinion, as in the wake of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Union Candidature - Creed This provision constitutes, they are affected by the declaration of nullity that establishes the first paragraph of Interlocutoire 24/2017, of 14 February, of the Constitutional Court. In this sense, in our view, we consider that the vote and any approval of the additional provision or the statement of objections would lead to ignoring the warning made in the second part of the interlocutory respect the duty to prevent or paralyse any legal initiative that directly or indirectly contravenes the declaration of nullity, with the responsibilities that would result if it did not meet that duty. This situation would not be avoided with the possible approval of the addition of the Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes, as long as this retained the text of the thirty-first additional provision, as it would not be with the approval of the expression of the Catalunya Parliamentary Group Yes, it is possible if the result of the vote converted it into an addition to the text of the additional provision. Finally, we ask that the contents of these demonstrations be transferred to the Ple de la Cambra during the session in which the opinion on the draft law of assumptions of the Government of Catalonia is to be debated and voted on for 2017. Palau del Parlament, March 22, 2017.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.121.0	According to this information, the parliamentary groups of Junts per el Si, of the CUP and of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, that have presented the documents cited, and the Government, that has presented the bill, should decide whether they intend to withdraw the documents or the thirty-first additional provision, respectively. For this reason, a copy will be sent to the parliamentary groups; the Ple will be suspended for five minutes, and then we will continue and give them three minutes to each group so that they can position themselves. Thank you very much. Now, then we'll give them the paper and then... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa, you will speak later, Mr. Carrizosa. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, no, Is that a point of order? [[Pause.]] If it's a point of order, say so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.122.0	Orderly question. To ask whether the Bureau should meet to study this report also, given the importance it has for the Bureau to inform it in question, which could entail responsibilities for the members of the Bureau. And it is not only that we study the content of the report, but that I sincerely believe that the members of the Bureau also have the right to study this report, such as the collegial organ of the chamber, and to take the collective decisions that remain attached. Therefore, whether the Bureau has to meet for this point will be asked.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.123.0	Mr. Carrizosa, this is not a report, this is a note. The Bureau has no decision to respect the fact that the Bureau has already given its opinion on the admission of the documents to the proceedings. Therefore, we are in plenary session, the plenary decides and, as I said, interrupt the plenary for five minutes so that they can decide the groups, and then I will give them three minutes so that they can position themselves. The session is expected until five minutes from now. [[Widow's remorse.]] They've got five minutes. Then you can refer to 'there. Why ask me the word, Mrs. Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.124.0	For a point of order, President. The time he proposed, and that we see well, has felt if we know what the meaning of the groups proposing these items is, whether they think to keep them or not. Because if we don't, we won't be able to deliberate in these five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.125.0	Mrs. Granados, I've just informed you that we'll deliver the note, that I'll look at it, and that's why you can position it, not before. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.126.0	Yes, for a point of order. In the sense, Madam President, that as long as you report to the press, that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.127.0	It's not a report, I repeat, it's a note.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.128.0	That the letter from the speakers, which we believe affects the vote that will take place all the time, we believe that the Bureau must express its opinion on respect. Or, with the least, they think it would be opportune and prudent. [[the president says: "No]] that the Bureau issue an opinion in respect of this note that the letters have arrived, at the same time as the consequences of this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.129.0	Mr. Rodriguez, there is – there is – no problem with interpreting the Rules, which is why the Bureau should meet. There's no reason why the Bureau is meeting. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Here there is no – there is no – interpretation of the Rules. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Granados, you've already asked for the word, you've already spoken. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, now we'll deliver it to all groups and then they can position it. The note. (Whispering loudly.)
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.130.0	It's part of the session. [[Pause.]] Let's resume the session. I'll give them a three-minute turn because they say if they want to withdraw the papers submitted. We will begin, from minor to major, for the groups that have submitted the reviews. In the first place, you have three minutes to pronounce the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. Mrs. Anna Gabriel will speak on behalf of the UPC.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.131.0	Yes; very good morning to you all. First of all, I don't know if it's up to us to appreciate this informative note from the Chamber's readers, from the Lords Xavier Muro and Antoni Bayona; tell them that thanks for the note, but don't add anything again to what we already knew. He said that the vote and eventual approval of the additional provision and of the message presented in this case for the Group of the Candidature for Popular Unity - Crida Constituent would be to ignore the warning made by the Constitutional Court from Interlocutory 24/2017. I'd say we don't ignore anything, we're perfectly connoisseurs. Don't ignore, take over. We perfectly assume that the democratic process we want to engage in in this country contravenes the limits imposed by the Constitutional Court. Therefore, let us be warned, we are connoisseurs, that it is not bound to us; it is more, it is a challenge. Here the question is what will the majority of this parliamentary chamber do before this warning, before a constitutional court that makes criminal warnings for political action: you will lay down the cost of repression, the judicialization of the Constitutional Court, or you will lay down the band of those we have come to do politics? We in this chamber have not come to gain our lives, we have not come to plunder public error, we have not come to make a modus vivendi of the escons of this chamber; we have come to do politics and it is what we are willing to do. We have said it many times and we said it yesterday: we will do it without asking permission and without asking forgiveness. Thank you very much, Mr President, for contributing to the democratization of this chamber. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.132.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. Next is will pronounce the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes it is Pot. In his name will speak Mr. Joan Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.133.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, we have carefully read the note, which is not a report, but which has the same effects, from the major reader and from the secretary general, and the first thing we want to raise is that I honestly believe that the Bureau should have its contents well presented. I think it is good, it is good that Parliament is respectful of itself, that it respects the Council of Statutory Guarantees, that it respects its Legal Servants, that it takes into account the things that are said to it, because, on the contrary, when one is losing respect for oneself, it is difficult for him to ask about others. In the measure that, as it is obvious, this note does not put in doubt the possibility, neither from any point of view, to plant our task, we maintain it, as is logical. But, in addition to keeping it, we already told them that our willingness with this theme was quite obvious, it was to maintain our firm commitment to the referendum; secondly, to ensure that, at the moment when it is possible to celebrate, there are the parties that are opportune to celebrate it, and, thirdly, to pay attention to the Council of State Guarantees, because, I insist, if we do not respect the institutions we believe, no one will respect us. That said, this is the first time that there are people pushing Parliament, imposed on Parliament, imposed on Parliament, acts of supposed disobedience that, as we said yesterday, as I said yesterday, a couple have approved are guarding themselves in the falls and at the moment they have only suffered as a result of the risk of incapacity of people who are not exactly those who push disobedience, but are others. Madam President, on behalf of the group we want to say one thing to you: logically, everyone assumes their responsibilities, and this honors you very much, but we need the president, not to martyr. [[Some applause.]] It can't be – it can't be – a process that requires having a martyr to move forward..., can't do it well. We prefer it as president than martyrdom. And, therefore, I think you would do well to save yourself from those who want it as long as they want to subscribe to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.134.0	Next will be Mr. Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.135.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. I'm doing it here because I'm carrying a lot of papers. If we are not mistaken, the situation is as follows: there is a report from the Guarantee Board, which is preceptive and not binding; there are notes from Parliament's letters, which are neither preceptive nor binding. And say notes of the letters because we were going to go to the Board of Spokesman the other day, in which the papers we had submitted were raised, and we have a report from the letter – that I don't know what changed in the legal world from saying until today – that you say the following, to the conclusions, huh? , says: "The Council of State Guarantees, when it declares that the drafting of a certain article is unconstitutional or unstatutory..., does not in itself imply a recommendation of its suppression. He also told the conclusions that the congruence test to be carried out by the Bureau of Parliament does not imply an analysis of whether the proposed wording would prevent any doubt of the future about the competition of the standard mark. And it ends up that the papers presented, both for Catalonia Yes that it is Pot as for Junts for the Yes..., says they pass the congruence test, that it is the request that asks the Rules of Catalonia, in the sense that it does not appreciate bad faith or abuse, and, therefore, that they can be processed. That's what we're looking at as legal notice the saying. Well, located here, like this is the Parliament of Catalonia and it's not a view room – that some want to turn it into a view room – we understand that the Parliament of Catalonia, therefore, is an organ and is a sovereign institution to take its decisions. And, in addition, we want to remember the inviolability of the deputies, who are gathered in the State, in order to guarantee two fundamental rights: from entry, freedom of expression, and, later, the representation and civic participation of the citizens of Catalonia. Why? Because we represent them. If there's anyone trying to make a barricade and try to block through the central government... judicial, block the legislature, so this jumps through the air the separation of powers. For this reason, we, before this fabric and before we have come here with a very clear mandate from the citizens of Catalonia, because it protects us, in this sense, our rights as Members, we, before it is produced, President, we have withdrawn our task, because we believe that in the assumptions we must be consistent with our political commitments. And our political commitments are saying referendum or referendum. And that's why we announced, because we understood that it was better written, including, and clearer, the emena presented for Catalonia Yes that it is Pot..., and therefore we would vote in favour of Catalonia Yes that it is Pot, and we would vote in favour of the Emena of the CUP - Constituent Creed. I insist, I do not want to sweep the institutions; this is the Parliament of Catalonia, we represent the citizens of Catalonia, and, as we have said many times, we are together for the Yes, we are not together for it. And, therefore, before this doubt is planted here, which are not binding, we try to defend our commitments with the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.136.0	Thank you, Mr. Turull. Is the government willing to pronounce?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.137.0	Very briefly. The government has submitted a bill, which is convinced that it is the best tool to serve the interests of Catalan society. It is therefore clear that the Government maintained its bill of law, and, among other things, also because the Government of which it is in favour is that the Members of this Parliament are represented by the sovereignty of the citizens of Catalonia who can freely express their opinion through their votes; two rights, the right of opinion and the right to vote of the Members, which are inviolable, as is well known, among other things, because this guarantees the State of Autonomy, among others.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.138.0	Thank you, Vice President. Now it's gonna be the groups that haven't submitted papers. Mr. Carrizosa asks for the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.139.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Turull has already said, the Council of State Guarantees has said: additional provision 31 is neither statutory nor constitutional. It is being told by the lawyers of the Chamber – you acknowledge this – by the lawyers of the Chamber: this additional provision contained in the opinion and amendments which do not substantially alter the content may result in the prohibition of the Constitutional Court. And what's Junts' answer to Yes? Load against the camera's lawyers. That's what you've done, Mr. Turull, that's what you've done. The same person who asked for disciplinary responsibilities for Members who did not join the joint presentation to amend a regulation to silence the opposition is charging against the legal officials of Parliament who tell him what you do not want to hear. That's right. The Bureau can now incur responsibilities, and also the Government that for the first time maintains a bill that is incurring the express prohibition, which not only affects the members of the Bureau, it also affects the Government. Mr. Junqueras has risen and said that the Government maintains the bill on the same terms without amending additional provision 31 at all. I believe – but that is what the courts are for; this is a political assessment in this forum – that here we can be passing the Rubicon also by the Government of Catalonia. And we deeply regret it, from Citizens, that you are taking the Catalans to the blockade of our institutions for your absolute irresponsibility. This is the swan song of the process. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.140.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Carrizosa. In representation of the Socialist Parliamentary Group... Mr. Mirror, why ask me the word? – your group has already intervened.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.141.0	For a point of order, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.142.0	If there's a point of order, in any case afterwards, because..., I'll talk to all groups, and then, if there's a point of order, we'll talk about it. But I remind you that your group has already spoken and that we are here in plenary session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.143.0	Yes, but it's a matter of order that I have right to formulate as the deputy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.144.0	Say, then, say – say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.145.0	............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I say this because this is also provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber in Rule 37(3), namely Rule 37(3), which states that it is for the Bureau to decide on the processing of all parliamentary documents and documents in accordance with the rules laid down in this Rule. To the extent that it is a letter addressed to the President and to all the members of the Bureau, therefore to the Bureau of Parliament, the Bureau must meet to decide on the procedure. This is the point of order I wanted to put to the plenary. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.146.0	Mr. Mirror, we're in plenary session, and you know very well, because you know the Rules, that the Ple is the supreme organ of this chamber. And when we're in plenary, the only function that the Bureau has is to order the debate, so... we're in plenary session. The members of the Bureau met—they met—and they spoke on the issues, all of them, and each of them, and they were in the minutes. The Table is only a meeting—it is only a meeting—when there is a question of reinterpreting the Rules. So... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And that's not the case. Therefore, we have released the note; all the groups have been able to pronounce, and now we continue with the plenary session. In representation of the Parliamentary Group... Mr Santi Rodríguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.147.0	Yes, Madam President. In accordance with Article 88.1 of the Rules, for a call for compliance with the Rules. And, in this regard, I call on the President to comply with Article 37(3), Article 39(1) and Article 39(1). I would like to recall that Rule 88.1, which provides for the call for compliance with the Rules of Procedure, requires that the Bureau be consulted before giving its opinion. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.148.0	Mr. Rodriguez, the note came up when the Ple was already meeting and... I repeat, when the Ple was already meeting, and the Ple is the supreme organ of the chamber. He showed up when the Ple was already meeting. The Bureau, when the plenary is meeting, only has... only has to organize the debate, repeat it. Yeah, that's it, that's what the Rules say. Who will speak on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group? [[Santi Rodríguez i Serra intervenes without using the microphone.]] No, you see, here we are not dealing with any Rulement issues, Mr. Rodriguez. If it was a Rule item, the Bureau would be able to gather. This is not a matter of the Rules; no. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's not a rule issue; no. No, no, It's not a rule issue. In any case, if you want to pronounce on behalf of your group, then.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.149.0	I would ask for the reading of Rule 88.1, Madam President. If he wants to, I'll read it myself, but I'd ask him to be...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.150.0	If you want to use your three-minute turn to read... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.151.0	No, no, Listen to me, it's a question... It's not an intervention, I'm asking the Speaker of Parliament for a call to observe the Rules, which is a perfectly foreseen question that until today...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.152.0	I've already returned this, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.153.0	... in thirty years and I get out whenever it has been asked compliments have been given... No, but it is you who gives me the answer, but I tell you that Article 88.1 provides that before you give me the answer, you are to consult the Bureau. And that's what we're asking you, that in order to resolve this matter that we're asking you, consult the Bureau of Parliament. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.154.0	The note was presented, I repeat, when the Ple was constituted, and the Ple... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry – I'm sorry – Mr. Rodriguez. Who will speak on behalf of your group? [[Pause.]] If you want to talk, talk. What Member will speak on behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group? [[Widow's remorse.]] Do you want to talk? [[Pause.]] Yeah. You've got three minutes. [[David Pérez Ibáñez asks to speak.]] Mr. David Pérez, you'll be speaking later. [[Widow's remorse.]] Everyone will talk, not pateixi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.155.0	Thank you, Madam President. And I would never have thought that this word of courtesy, thank you, would never have meant as much as it does at this time; because, sometimes, second-guessing that in this Parliament it is easier than it is when others do it. And, in this sense, I allow myself to begin this intervention in order to position us on the subject that we are competent to bear in mind that, twice already in this legislature, the Constitutional Court – the one that some do not want to recognize – has recognized that they have violated the rights of the deputies and deputies of the opposition groups of this Parliament. And it gives us the impression that this right-wing violation has most often occurred. Therefore, he asks – he asks – that he is respectful of the rights of all the Members of this Parliament. [[Greetings.]] Turning to the subject before us, one Member said: "There is an opinion from the Council of State Guarantees which is not binding. There's a note from the secretary general and the major cast – which seems to have upset a lot – but it's not binding either. We remind them, in case they have not perfectly listened to the note of the Major and the Secretary General – no longer tell them to listen to the Members of the Opposition – : there is a feeling of the Constitutional Court that it is binding. Listen, don't you like the resolution of the Venice Commission so much? Read it! Read it! ; especially there it is said that the sentences of the constitutional courts must be completed. That they didn't give it to them, this paragraf? [[Greetings.]] Didn't they give it to you? They skipped it? Or are they just reading what you like? They have a very selective reading ability. We believe it is essential to express, on behalf of our parliamentary group, our respect for Parliament's letters. [[Greetings.]] We find it absolutely intolerable – we find it absolutely intolerable – to take advantage of the public word and public projection of the escons as representatives of Catalans and Catalans to reduce the pocket of Parliament's letters. We'll share more or we'll share less of your pocket, your opinions, but we respect them. That I didn't take responsibility for what we do and what we're going through. The responsibilities are neither of the electorate nor of the opposition nor of the Constitutional Court. The responsibility for what is going on and the consequences of what is going on are solely and exclusively those that cause what is going on to happen. If there's anyone in politics who says they don't want privileges, it can't be a privilege that politicians don't know about the laws. And that, that privilege, is what some of us are doing today in order to exercise what they say is their democracy. And I end up remembering something that is very obvious, but they seem to have ignored: precisely, in democracy the laws are complete. And the great virtue of democracy is that it is also democraticly changing. The ones who force the laws to jump - they're not democrats. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.156.0	Mr Pérez, will you speak on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.157.0	No, Madam President. Mr. Miquel Iceta will speak on behalf of my group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.158.0	So why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.159.0	For a matter of order, quickly, as Mr. Mirror has done. Indeed, the note that the readers have brought to us changes the criteria, which we did not have available to the Bureau when we took the decision on the issues they are carrying in this Parliament. It is in this sense that this note raises a series of information that we did not have at that time. And it is in this sense that we ask you to reassemble the Bureau of Parliament, as did the representative of Ciutadans; we analyze the note made by the speakers, which I believe from some point of view can conclude some type of error, in the sense that, for example, we do not understand how it could be converted into an addition to the text by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is. And what we're asking for is a recess – once more – that we can gather the Bureau, we analyze this note... And I'm already announcing that what I'm doing at this meeting is asking for a report from the press, because what we're talking about is very relevant. We are talking about a possible, according to this note, incompliment of the interlocutory of the Constitutional Court. With the duty that we all have to stop and paralyze any initiative in this direction... and we have it by the members of the Bureau, basically. And it is in this sense, Madam President, that I ask you to suspend the plenary, to meet with the Bureau and, from here on, to make a decision. Because I'm the one who... – I finish already – the situation that trio is precisely that of the common sense. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.160.0	Mr. Pérez, I've already returned you to Mr. Mirror. That's what I've already responsed. The Bureau – and you – has spoken on these issues and it is written in the minutes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I can feel it. You know perfectly well that it was uttering and knowing perfectly and knowing this situation. Therefore, now, if you will, has the word Mr.Iceta on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.161.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. And they often apologize for repeating an argument that you do not recognize or accept. But, from our point of view, this note of the letters that poses in question is the decision of the Bureau to have admitted to forward certain items. We like it or not. I differ – and forgive'm' – from the fact that I do not have legal training, between « note, « written, « report, » escapes me. But what I do know is that today all the Members of this House know that the two most important members of the House say that there are items that should not have to be admitted to court, precisely in order not to be consistent with the unanimous opinion of the Catalonian State Guarantee Board. So, it's not... Actually, then, it's the next step. We want to defend the criteria of the State Guarantee Board and go to the end. Because we want to defend the correct functioning of the Catalan institutions and we do not want to under any illusion to put at risk what has been at stake for many years, since the 79th Statute, the guarantee of democracy in our country. We all know what we're about to do. He may know some legal morning, but we all know what we're about to do. We are about to incorporate in some assumptions of the Generality of Catalonia the forecasts to make a reference on which the Generality has no competences. And without them – with forgiveness of the expression not quite ours – handcuffs that we have, do not fix the problem of foundations. Head of the papers presented. The CUP, and we must recognize them, quite clearly; because they defend and defend a certain criteria in which the Constitutional Court has given its opinion, which establishes the Spanish Constitution or even the whole State, is not relevant. But for what we say it is, I think we can't ignore the opinion, I repeat, unanimous from the Board of State Guarantees. And, therefore, we would ask you not to have a note, not a writing, but a report from the readers on the most relevant issue that this Parliament will vote on from its recovery in the year 80. And we would also like to make sure that we do things right. Because if there is a note, write or report from the Servants of Parliament who tell us that one thing is not able to vote, Madam President, we will not vote for it. And we'd like to be sure what we're doing. And I think it's a right of any Member and all parliamentary groups to ask for judicial help from the chamber. And, therefore, I believe that at this point in time the meeting of the Bureau, the request for a legal report with all of you on this issue is absolutely essential. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.162.0	Mrs. Gabriel, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.163.0	For a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.164.0	Forward. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.165.0	Because different groups have expressed themselves as to whether the Bureau is meeting or not, or whether there have been more legal reports. Look, we don't need the Bureau meeting, nor any more legal reports. I don't think anyone needs this at all. [[Widow's remorse.]] The one who passes, that there are political forces that do not have enough with the warnings...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.166.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.167.0	... of the Constitutional Court and therefore they would need that instead of discussing politically, they may not be sure of their arguments, we lose time in other questions. It seems that the rights of deputies and voters prevail more than that of 80 per cent of the population, which requires that they exercise the right to self-determination by voting in a referendum. [[Greetings.]] It does so much for – it does so much for – the democratizing process of this country because you can lose your privileges, because you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.168.0	Mrs. Gabriel...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.169.0	...to descend directly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.170.0	...that's not a point of order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.171.0	...of the right...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.172.0	Let's get on with the session. [[Anna Gabriel and Sabaté ask to speak.]] Is this going to be a point of order, Mrs. Gabriel?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.173.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.174.0	So, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.175.0	It's a matter of order because the rest of the groups have gone down to the Faristol, used time and exceeded their rights, and it seems to me, everyone agrees, that it's an absolutely uplifting issue. Therefore, it seems important to us to finish arguing our argument linked to this point of order. The reference, which is the subject of this additional provision 31, is a compromise of the majority of this country. And we are with most of this country and not with the rights of certain Members. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.176.0	I know very hard, Mrs. Gabriel, but that's not a point of order, I can't go on. I know it's hard, it's not a matter of order. [[You want "Very good!. Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]] Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.177.0	Thank you, President. I don't know if these lifts...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.178.0	Why ask me the word? [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] Your group has already spoken...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.179.0	For a point of order, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.180.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.181.0	Did you notice that you didn't tell me...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.182.0	You've done very well, Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.183.0	Did you happen not to...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.184.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.185.0	Well, it's just the same... [[the Member of the European Parliament]] Let him be. Dec: I don't know if these lifts can incorporate a little common sense into this topic. Those who are members of the Board of Spokespersons already know that a server has tried to raise this issue to the board of Spokespersons, precisely, because this circumstance of this show is not produced here, and unfortunately it was not possible. Let me just say one thing to you, Madam President: our group believes, a servant believes that those who are asking you that this is a new issue, after the note that you have presented, from a legal point of view, the Judicial Servants of the Chamber, the Major Letter and the Secretary General, justify the performance of the Bureau, the intervention of the Bureau, they are right. And, therefore, I want you to be aware of this. But let me tell you something, Madam President: you can't say that, once the plenary has begun, the plenary will rise, and then decide only you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.186.0	Mr. Coscubila, this is not a matter of order either...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.187.0	No... yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.188.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.189.0	It would be better if you let us decide at the plenary meeting whether the Bureau should be convened or not. But you said, "No, the table, no. The Ple is going to rise. But I decide. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] We're entering a dynamic where he's smart... [[Greetings.]] Look, there's one thing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.190.0	Mr Coscubiela, until now the Bureau does not convene it the Ple...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.191.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.192.0	...calls on the president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.193.0	I think I understand why you take full responsibility for this act. And I think I do, and it can be perfectly logical and understanding, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.194.0	Mr. Coscubila, it's not a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.195.0	...cannot be about the rights of deputies and deputies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.196.0	It's not a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.197.0	Okay. I knew the common sense wouldn't prevail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.198.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Well, we will continue with the plenary session and proceed to the votes, the order of the votes of the Bill of Presumptives of the Government of Catalonia for 2017. Before we start voting, I'll let you know how to order them. In the first place, we will vote on the reserved items of the correspondents to the state of expenditure of the Bill of Presumptives. Secondly, we shall vote on the items reserved for the text. Thirdly, we shall vote on the points following the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm still reading... fourth place, we'll vote for the transactional statements. In five places, we will vote on the text of the bill's opinion. And now they're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word? [[Pause.]] I don't feel it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.199.0	Yes, for a point of order, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.200.0	Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.201.0	In accordance with Rule 35.2 of the Rules of Procedure, our parliamentary group calls for the urgent convening of a meeting of spokespersons. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.202.0	Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.203.0	Also, in the same sense as the People's Group, to request a meeting of the Board of Spokespersons, president. [[Strong remorse of the eyes. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.204.0	We called for a vote. I know it's hard, but we've been consulting, and we've called for a vote. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] I can feel it. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] It will convene the Board of Spokesmen after the session, but not now. We will not interrupt the session, which we are calling for a vote. [[Someone said: "She is obliged to answer.]] And I look like I'm contesting, don't I? I am saying that the Spokesman's Board will be convened after the vote; but now we have already called for the vote. Mrs. Marta Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.205.0	For a point of order, read Article 91. He said: « Votes. Votes cannot be interrupted for any reason... [[Widow's remorse.]] "While they have a place, the president doesn't give the word and the deputy can't get in or out of the Session Hall or the room where he's a fan. I think the bell indicates the beginning of a vote. I would therefore ask that we proceed to the vote. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.206.0	Let's see, let's start voting. [[Widow's remorse.]] We called for a vote and said: "We call for a vote. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] So let's start the voting. Then I'll call the Portaveus Board. I can feel it. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa, why on...? They may be asking for the word all the time, but we have called for a vote. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.207.0	Ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.208.0	Say, 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.209.0	Yes, Madam President; on a point of order. Firstly, I believe that in a parliament we can express ourselves to all the parliamentary groups. Or not? Or can only a few speak? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.210.0	And they have expressed themselves, Mr Carrizosa, they have expressed themselves. All of it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.211.0	Madam President, I wanted to request, as my colleagues, the convening of the Board of Spokespersons. And, as you have already put forward your point of view, which is that the votes have begun, what I want to discuss now is that the votes have begun, because nobody has started voting here. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.212.0	No, but we called for a vote, we called for a vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.213.0	Voting as such has not begun, Madam President. And that's why I think it was a good time to celebrate the Board of Spokespersons that was requested of you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.214.0	And I will summon it, as the Rules say, I will summon it, the Board of Spokesmen, but instead you say it must be at the moment it is asked...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.215.0	You called for a vote, but you didn't say, "You start the vote, you don't say that... [[Santi Rodríguez i Serra and Eva Granados Galiano ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.216.0	Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.217.0	...for that reason, the vote has not begun. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.218.0	Mrs. Granados...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.219.0	For a point of order, President. We understand that at the moment... he was calling for a vote, but he gave the word to Mr Santi Rodríguez and, therefore, suspended the vote. And, therefore, we have asked for it as the Rules say. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.220.0	Mr Santi Rodríguez... – Mr Santi Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.221.0	Yes, President. I would have understood that you asked me for what reason we asked for the call of the Board of Spokesmen, which would have followed the logic, and I would have explained that the call of the Board of Spokesmen's urgent call is precisely in relation to the vote that you want to start now. Therefore, it is essential that, if we compliment the Rules, the Board of Spokespersons is called before the vote that you want to begin. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.222.0	Mr. Rodriguez, instead of saying you have to interrupt the Ple, instead of saying, the Rules, to make a doorman's meeting. And I started reading up and the whole voting guide. I called the vote and started reading. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, we'll vote..., the first vote goes from the puzzle..., starts with the puzzle 1 and ends with the puzzle number 15. Or go on, he voted first: draft 1 and ends at 15. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 36 votes to 71, with 26 abstentions. Then we'll vote..., vote number 2 begins with item number 16 and ends with item 144. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 36 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. Then vote number 3 starts with item number 6 and ends with item 161. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 36 votes to 87, with 10 abstentions. Then vote number 4 begins with item 26 and ends with item 160. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 25 votes to 87, with 21 abstentions. Then we'll take vote number 5... no, I'm sorry, it's not vote number 5, because the item 129_was a transaction object. We shall therefore proceed to vote No 6, which is Rule 131. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 34 votes to 89, with 9 abstentions. Next we do..., vote number 7 is not done, because the 133_word has been the object of the transaction. So we're going to vote number 8, which is 94. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 19 votes to 98, with 16 abstentions. We will continue to vote No. 9, which is Emena 93. The vote begins. The item 93_was rejected by 9 votes in favour, 98 against and 26 abstentions. We will continue to vote No. 10, which is Emena 41, because Emena 166 is a transaction object. Therefore, the vote begins. The item was rejected by 9 votes to 88, with 35 abstentions. Voting number 11 is not done, because item 39_was transaction object. So now we're going to vote number 12, which is item 182, because item 81 is also a transaction object. Therefore, the vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 9 votes to 73, with 51 abstentions. We will then vote on the 46th and 47th exams. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 62 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. We will then proceed to vote No. 14, which begins with item No. 23 and ends with item No. 185. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 52 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 45th. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 46 votes in favour, 87 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on voting number 16, which is item 122. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 44 votes in favour, 89 against and no abstentions. We shall then proceed to vote No. 17, which is Rule 102 and 138. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 34 votes in favour, 99 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote 18, which is the 78th item. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 25 votes in favour, 107 against and no abstentions. Vote number 19 begins with item 27 and ends with item 135. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 25 votes to 97, with 11 abstentions. Then we'll take vote number 20, which starts with the 100 and ends with 148. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 34 votes to 89, with 10 abstentions. We will continue to vote number 21, which is item 123. The vote begins. The item 123_was rejected by 44 votes in favour, 73 against and 16 abstentions. Then the vote was number 22, which are the 75th and 117th lists. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 36 votes to 81, with 16 abstentions. Then vote number 23, which begins with item 25 and ends with item 172. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 25 votes to 81, with 27 abstentions. Then vote number 24, which is item 21. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 122 against and no abstentions. We will then proceed to vote No. 25, which is Exhibits 22 and 60. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 9 votes in favour, 124 against and no abstentions. We shall then proceed to vote No. 26, which are motions 58, 72 and 158. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 9 votes to 114, with 10 abstentions. Then vote number 27, which is item 53. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 10 votes to 98, with 26 abstentions. Vote number 28, which is item 177. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 26 votes in favour, 81 against and 26 abstentions. We will then vote on the 29th, which are the 37th and 139th lists. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 20 votes to 88, with 25 abstentions. Vote number 30 is Emena 54. The vote begins. The item 54_was rejected by 9 votes in favour, 99 against and 25 abstentions. Next, vote 31, which are items 12 and 13. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 11 votes to 87, with 35 abstentions. We will continue to vote number 32, which starts with item 40 and ends with item 169. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 9 votes to 89, with 35 abstentions. We will then proceed to vote No. 33, which is Emena 176. The vote begins. The item 176_was rejected by 21 votes in favour, 71 against and 41 abstentions. Voting number 34, which is Emena 113. The vote begins. The item 113_was rejected by 19 votes in favour, 73 against and 41 abstentions. We shall then proceed to vote No. 35, which are items 173, 174 and 175. The vote begins. The statements were rejected by 10 votes to 71, with 52 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 178. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 81 against and 41 abstentions. Vote number 37, which is item 183. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 20 votes to 62, with 51 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 149. The vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 9 votes to 73, with 51 abstentions. We will continue to vote number 39, which is the rest of the state of spending. The vote begins. The remaining items were approved by 88 votes to 38, with 7 abstentions. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.223.0	Now he sees the vote on a couple of papers, but we would ask for the reading of item 442.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.224.0	Okay. Articulated? [[Pause.]] He asks for the Emena vote, read the Emena, but is it the Emena of the Articulate? [[Pause.]] Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.225.0	Just to make it clear that we have made a mistake in voting 39 and that we want to vote no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.226.0	Mr. Rodriguez, do you think we'll continue with the vote and when we find the message we'll do the reading? [[Pause.]] Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's continue with the vote. Let's go vote on the joint. Voting number 1 is not done because item 97_was transaction object. We shall vote number two, which are items 442, 466 and 1698. The vote begins. For the vote, we shall stop the vote. Discontinue voting. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. Yes... – Yes, yes – let's leave it at the end, which is the first... That Mr. Rodriguez asked me to read the Emena 442; so let's leave it at the end, and let's continue. Therefore, this vote is not a success. Let's continue with vote number 3, which starts with item 66 and ends with item 2226. Okay? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 62 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the 3a vote, which is the 404 vote. The vote begins. The 404_word was rejected by 62 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote number 4, which begins with item 114 and ends with 2041. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 60 votes in favour, 73 against and no abstentions. We shall then proceed to vote No. 5, which are items 124, 1658 and 2104. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 51 votes to 73, with 9 abstentions. Vote number six, Emena 1671. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 51 votes in favour, 82 against and no abstentions. Voting number 7 begins with Emena 79 and ends with Emena 2157. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 60 votes to 62, with 11 abstentions. Vote number 8, starting with Emena 778 and ending with Emena 2141. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 51 votes to 62, with 20 abstentions. Voting No. 9, which are items 647 and 968. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 49 votes to 71, with 11 abstentions. Vote number 10: 1057, 1215 and 1235. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 52 votes to 72, with 9 abstentions. Vote number 11; starts at 140 and ends at 2222. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 53 votes in favour, 80 against and no abstentions. Then we will vote number 12, which starts with the 661 and ends with 2134. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 52 votes to 62, with 19 abstentions. We will continue to vote number 13, which begins with item 69 and ends with item 2159. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 52 votes to 71, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 1521. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 41 votes to 62, with 30 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 45th. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 78 against and no abstentions. Then the vote was number 16, which is 1326 and 1894. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 46 votes to 78, with 9 abstentions. We shall then proceed to vote No 17, which is 1624, 2198 and 2200. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 46 votes in favour, 87 against and no abstentions. Then vote number 18, which is item 1414. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 43 votes in favour, 89 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote number 19, starting with item 57 and ending with item 2184. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 35 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. Vote number 20, which starts with item number 60 and ends with 64. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 25 votes to 97, with 11 abstentions. We will continue to vote number 21, which begins with Emena 847 and ends with Emena 1909. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 46 votes to 62, with 25 abstentions. We will continue to vote number 22, starting with item 233 and ending with item 2175. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 46 votes to 71, with 16 abstentions. Vote number 23, Emena 2142. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 35 votes to 62, with 36 abstentions. Then vote No. 24, which begins with item 231 and ends with item 2217. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 36 votes to 81, with 16 abstentions. Then we will vote number 25, which starts with the 55 and ends with the 2216. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 36 votes to 71, with 26 abstentions. We will then vote on the 26th, which begins with the 2206 and ends with the 2209. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 26 votes to 81, with 26 abstentions. We will continue to vote number 27, which is 1806. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 46 votes in favour, 87 against and no abstentions. We'll continue to vote for the number 102 item. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 37 votes in favour, 96 against and no abstentions. Vote number 29 starts with item 46 and ends with item 570. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 36 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 1610. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 35 votes in favour, 98 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 146. The vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 26 votes to 96, with 11 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 2129. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 27 votes in favour, 106 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 657. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 36 votes to 87, with 10 abstentions. Why ask me the word, Mr. Coscubala?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.227.0	In order to ask that before voting on the item 537 is proceeded to its reading, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.228.0	If they seem... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] We'll do the reading... take advantage of it and do the reading of the two items. I mean, we're reading now, at this point, we're reading the message that Mr. Santi Rodriguez has asked of us and we're going to proceed to the vote, and then we're going to read the message that Mr. Coscubila has asked of us and we're going to proceed to the vote. So now we read the message that the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia has asked of us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.229.0	«Exmenade 442, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, adding a new additional provision. Teaching. The Government, from the presuppositional availabilities for 2017, has to guarantee the necessary reversal to complete the project executed by the School Mediterranean Institute of Viladecans, Baix Llobregat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.230.0	We shall then proceed to the vote on items 442, 466 and 1698, which is item 2 of the joint. The vote begins. The papers were accepted by 71 votes in favour, 62 against and no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Then we proceed to the reading of the Emena 537, which Mr. Joan Coscubiela asked us to read.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.231.0	« Esmena 537, d'addicio, Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. Teaching. The Government, from the presuppositionary forecasts for 2017, will withdraw the departure of the concerts of the schools that secrete students by sex, as long as they do not complete one of the guiding principles of the Law 12/2009, of 10 July, of education of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.232.0	Thank you, Vice President. We shall now proceed to the vote on item 537. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 35 votes to 72, with 25 abstentions. We will then vote on the 48th, 90th and 1935. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 19 votes in favour, 114 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 1950s. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 121 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on the 572 and 1931 exams. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 9 votes to 114, with 10 abstentions. We will continue to vote on items 89, 99 and 568. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 19 votes to 98, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 917. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 19 votes to 86, with 27 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 571. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 19 votes to 98, with 16 abstentions. Then we will vote number 41, which goes from the 44 to 2078. The vote begins. The statements were approved by 46 votes to 62, with 25 abstentions. Then we vote, we do... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You're rejected, I'm sorry; they're smart enough to hear it. [[Widow's remorse.]] Excuse me. We will continue to vote number 42, which begins with item number 24 and ends with item 1908. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 37 votes to 62, with 34 abstentions. Then we will vote number 43, which starts with the 101 and ends with 2178. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 37 votes to 71, with 25 abstentions. Then we will vote number 44, which starts with the 112 and ends with the 2158. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 35 votes to 73, with 25 abstentions. We shall then proceed to vote No. 45, which are items 2, 157 and 862. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 35 votes to 62, with 36 abstentions. Vote No. 46, which are items 1407 and 1408. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 26 votes to 71, with 36 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the 225 and 226 items. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 27 votes to 81, with 25 abstentions. We will then vote on 1056 and 1069. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 27 votes to 62, with 44 abstentions. The vote was taken at 49, which are items 227 and 1471. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 27 votes to 71, with 35 abstentions. The vote was taken at 50, which is 1470 and 1966. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 21 votes to 87, with 26 abstentions. We shall then proceed to vote No. 51, which are items 2086, 2087 and 2088. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 19 votes to 88, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 250. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 97 against and 25 abstentions. We will then proceed to vote 53, which are items 1469, 1473 and 2097. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 11 votes to 87, with 34 abstentions. We will then vote on the 213 and 1923 items. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 30 votes to 62, with 41 abstentions. Vote number 55, which begins with Emena 93 and ends with Emena 2219, because Emena 92 is a transaction object. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 19 votes to 73, with 41 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 1617. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 81 against and 41 abstentions. We'll continue to do... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.233.0	To ask for the reading of the question that will be put to the vote all the time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.234.0	2223. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's just that it's a suppression... [[Widow's remorse.]] And deletes all the text. [[Pause.]] The vice president will read it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.235.0	Well, item 2223, of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, is the deletion of the thirty-first additional provision. And that's it. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.236.0	Let's go to vote 57, which is the 2223. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 52 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 76th. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 52 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote for the 2181 item. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 52 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 95th. [[Anna Gabriel and Sabaté ask to speak.]] The vote begins... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I shall interrupt the vote. Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Gabriel is asking for the word. Why ask me the word, Mrs. Gabriel?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.237.0	To ask for reading of the emena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.238.0	Nine-five. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.239.0	"Esmena 95, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed, of suppression on the part of the thirty-first additional disposition. Economy i Hisenda. Thirty-one. Measures in the field of organization and management of the referendum process. The Government, from the presuppositional availabilities for 2017, has to empower the parties to guarantee the necessary resources in organizational matters and managed to face the referendum process on the future politics of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.240.0	Let's move on to the vote on the 95th Emena. The vote begins. The emena has been approved [[applause]] by 72 votes to 9, with no abstentions. We shall then proceed to vote on the items following the opinion of the Council for Statutory Guarantees. Vote 1 is the next item on item 1 of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 52 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on item 2, which is the next item on the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 52 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on item 3, which is the subsequent item of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 52 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the next item by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Why ask me the word, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.241.0	To ask for reading of the emena.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.242.0	This one?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.243.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.244.0	Okay. The vice president will read it. Vote number 4, following item 2, of the Parliamentary Group...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.245.0	Esmena 2, Grup Parlamentari de Ciutadans, adding a new additional provision. « Additional provision. According to the Opinion of the Board of State Guarantees of Catalonia 2/2017, it is modified the name of the presuppositional parties GO01.132.227.004, DD01.132.227.004 and DD01.132.227.015, which become the following name: 132.227.004, Electoral and popular non-referendariat processes; 132.227.004, DD01, Electoral and popular non-referendariat processes; and, finally, 132.227.015, Utilities of civic participation non-referendariat processes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.246.0	Let's continue with the vote. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. Then vote 5, which is the next item on the agenda for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. Mr Carrizosa, do we have to interrupt the vote? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The item was rejected by 36 votes to 96, with 1 abstention. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Now ask for the word. Forward. Why ask me the word, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.247.0	Yes, to ask that it is also read, please, the 4 of Ciutadans, this one that we will vote now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.248.0	That's vote 6, question 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.249.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.250.0	Okay. All right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.251.0	« Issue 4, adding a new additional provision. Additional provision. In compliance with the Opinion of the Board of State Guarantees of Catalonia 2/2017, the game called Contingency funds.. will have to presuppositively only those needs that have been unpredictable, inaccessible and not discretionary at the initial moment of approval of the presumption. In any case, the norms and acts of application of these needs which may be endowed with this item must be in conformity with the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, the Spanish Constitution and with the interpretation given by the Council of State Guarantees and the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.252.0	Okay. We shall now proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. Then vote number seven. [[Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]] Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.253.0	To ask for the reading of the question number 1, presented for Catalonia Yes that is Pot, and to find that in the case that it was voted favorably would be absolutely contradictory with another that we have just voted, and, therefore, should be under the criteria of harmonization of the judicial services of the chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.254.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.255.0	I believe that from this Parliament there can be no rule that says one thing and in the paragraph exactly following the counter.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.256.0	Well, in any case, Mr. Coscubala, this will be resolved after the vote, as it should be resolved. In any case, we now proceed to the reading of the subsequent issue number 1 of the Gruppo Parlamentari Catalunya Si que es Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.257.0	« Esmena 1 del Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, modification of the thirty-first additional provision. The Government, from the presuppositional possibilities, will guarantee the economic endowment sufficient to meet the needs and requirements arising from the call of the referendum on the future policy of Catalonia granted in paragraph 1, 1.2 of Resolution 306/XI of the Parliament of Catalonia, with the conditions set out in Opinion 2/2017 of 2 March, of the Council of State Guarantees of the Generality of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.258.0	Okay. We shall now proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The item was adopted by 71 votes to 13, with no abstentions. Then vote number 8 is not much because the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group has removed the following slogan through a writing with registry number 54583. Now let's vote on the compromises. Voting number 1 is transactional theme 1 between the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes and Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. The vote begins. The item was adopted by 80 votes to 53, with no abstentions. We will then vote for the number 2, which is a transactional issue between the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes and Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent, register 54492. The vote begins. The item was approved by 122 votes to 11, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote..., vote number 3, which is the transactional theme of the National Pact for Universities, which has been signed for all groups and corresponds to items 2068, 2085, 1986, 2086 and 2092. The vote begins. The item was approved by 121 votes to 11, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote now on the articulated text of the opinion of the draft law of assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2017. In the first place, we will make four votes, which refer to the additional provisions thirty-two up to the one hundred and threeteen. We shall then vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. Therefore, we shall now take a vote, beginning with additional provision 37 and ending with paragraph 4 of additional provision 65. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.259.0	For two questions: the first, which is in the record that the previous vote was a mistake, and, in fact, we have signed with the rest of the parliamentary groups the documentation. And then, for a separate vote from paragraph 4 of additional provision 54 of this vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.260.0	Yes, it's coming, Mr. Fernández. Now, I repeat, we are going to vote on the additional provision thirty-seven until paragraph 4 of the additional provision 65. Okay? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 46 votes in favour, 87 against and no abstentions. We shall then proceed to vote 1a in paragraph 4 of the additional provision 54. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? Mrs. Gabriel, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.261.0	For reading, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.262.0	All right, let's do the reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.263.0	« Fifty-four: rules, training and salaries of health personnel. Point 4. The Government has to limit the wage conditions for the high levels of the Cat Salut and for the direct staff of the health centres in the public sector in such a way that the direct management has a higher sum than that of a general secretary of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.264.0	We shall now proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The draft was rejected by 19 votes in favour, 62 against and 52 abstentions. We shall then proceed to vote No 2, which goes from paragraph 1 of the additional provision 50 to paragraph 13 of the additional provision 100. The vote begins. The papers were... I don't know what they were because there's a tie, because there's 62 votes in favour, 62 against and 9 abstentions. In any case, we will have to repeat the vote, because there is a tie. We repeat the vote on paragraph 1 of the additional provision 50 until paragraph 13 of the additional provision 100. The vote begins. There were 63 votes in favour, 62 against and 8 abstentions. We shall then proceed to vote No 3, which is the rest of the asides and dispositions not affected by the previous two votes of the interval between the additional dispositions thirty-two until the one hundred and three. The vote begins. The items were approved by 123 votes to 10, with no abstentions. Then we vote... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] We shall now vote on the rest of the text of the opinion not affected by all previous votes. The vote begins. The Opinion of the Committee on Economic and Historical Affairs on the draft law on assumptions of the Government of Catalonia for 2017_has been adopted by 64 votes to 62, with 7 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.265.0	To the extent that the petition that we made, on the part of our group, as a spokesman's meeting, was to deal with a subject related to the vote that has already taken place, understand it lapsed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.266.0	And the rest of the parliamentary groups that have asked for it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Decline? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right – all right, all right. The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon. [[The session is suspended at two-quarters of a half and seven minutes and is resumed at three in the afternoon and one minute. Chairs the Speaker of Parliament, accompanied by the First and Second Vice-Presidents, the First and Fourth Secretary and the Second Secretary. The Secretary General and the Major and the Electors Fernando Domínguez Garcia and Miquel Palomares Amat attend the Bureau.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.267.0	It's part of the session. [[Draft law on fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures; the creation of a tax on the environmental risk of production, handling and transport, custody and emission of radioactive elements; taxation on sweetened beguds; taxation on large commercial establishments; and taxation on tourist establishments]] [[200-00020/11]] Very late in the day, all of them. The fourth point of the order of the day is: debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the draft law on fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures; the creation of a tax on the environmental risk of production, handling and transport, custody and the emission of radioactive elements; the tax on sugar beet; the tax on large commercial establishments; and the tax on states in tourist establishments. The debate will begin with the intervention of the parliamentary groups from major to minor and will end for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, in a single fifteen-minute period, to defend the reserved items and to position itself on the items presented for the other parliamentary groups. In the first place has the word Mr. Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.268.0	Thank you, Madam President. I am sorry that there can be neither a president, nor a vice-president, nor a councillor for this law; but, in the end, we will begin the debate. Look, this law we are debating today is called fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures and it is supposed that today what we are debating is to have improved the administration, the public sector, and to improve the fiscal and financial system. Well, with regard to administrative measures, there is not a single measure in this law that goes to the heart of the matter, and that is nothing other than the modernization of the administration and the public sector. The first responsibility we have as politicians is to streamline the administration and the public sector. The first thing we have to do is strengthen and muscle the public sector, removing fat and freeing up economic resources to employ and invest in the most productive and dynamic sectors of our society. A government, huh? Mr Vice-President, a government must have the courage and do what a government of the Generalitat has never done: draw up a zero-based budget, evaluate public policies and put an end to inertia and policies that are a sink of public resources. Be courageous and implement a modern public and administrative system, similar to the Nordic countries. Look, with regard to tax measures, let me first make some reflections and considerations. From the left's point of view..., he has always considered..., for them it is very easy to draw up a budget: it is enough to increase spending year after year and, if there is no money, raise taxes; no problem. In front of them, there is the vision of the right, of the ideological right, through which everything is arranged by lowering, suppressing taxes and, if basic aspects of the welfare state have to be cut, they are cut; there is no problem. Faced with this, Citizens believe that fiscal policy is part of economic policy, and if we want a strong and competitive economy, fiscal policy must be the right one to stimulate the economy, not damage the competitiveness of our companies and maintain a state of muscular well-being. Unless a country has a high-value-added production model – which unfortunately is not the case in Catalonia – more taxes and fees are ultimately more expensive and therefore less competitive products and services. And if they're more expensive, huh? , that those of other countries will not only decrease our exports: they will increase imports, because Catalans themselves will prefer cheaper products and services. We must therefore be very rigorous and prudent in raising taxes and fees so as not to damage the competitiveness of our companies and, as a result, to harm our own economy. These, which are basic principles of economic policy, have certainly not been taken into account when drafting the accompanying law that we are debating today. We are faced with a law with which, in order to satisfy the CUP, new taxes have been imposed on companies amounting to 250_million_of_euro, which will undoubtedly waste their ability to compete in a global world, unless they continue to compensate for low wages, low crude oil prices and low interest rates. Deputies, the great secret of the growth of Catalan exports and of the rest of Spain is not to produce goods and services of high added value; the great secret is the wage sacrifices suffered by Catalans and the rest of the Spaniards. The wage devaluation, around 25_per_cent, that we have suffered is what it has fostered and is actually propitiating the best tone of exports. But do you want us to continue doing this with low wages, or will something be done to change, precisely by predicting that wages will recover the level they logically should have? Look, in Citizens we oppose the law of accompaniment because in essence, in short, they are more taxes, more taxes, more tax pressure. And unfortunately the law, in its parliamentary procedure, has not improved; on the contrary, it has worsened, the amendments have worsened the law. As I said in the debate on the Budgets Act, the continuous patchwork and change of chromosomes between parties with even counterposed economic and fiscal models have produced a monstrous Frankenstein, made of patches and pieces, the consequence of which is that Catalans are among the Spaniards that more taxes and fees we pay. We are faced with a law that involves a general rise in tax pressure and a criminalization and aggravation of sanctions, motivated solely by the Government's desire to collect money. By the hand of the CUP, you, the Government of the Generalitat, are going to charge us for breathing. This law also demonstrates the lack of effectiveness in the management of the Government. And the example of ATLL is new, because we are asked to allow an extraordinary credit to recover the bad concession of ATLL, instead of providing in the budgets a specific item for this purpose. The law implies an attempt to conceal in new figures supposedly environmental the suspensions of collection that could come from the Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice of the European Union. Old problems are compounded by new constitutional and community problems with this law. "It won't come from any more appeals, I suppose they think from the government, "it won't come from any more appeals before the Constitutional Court and the Court of Justice. It seems to be part of the process and its servitudes take a falsely victimistic position, seeking a confrontation with the state and violating the entire Spanish and European competition framework. With regard to the analysis of the law that we are debating today, I am obliged to repeat arguments that I have already put forward in the whole amendment debate. We think that the design of the empty housing tax is going to mean, in fact, stealing, removing tax power from the municipalities, which are being robbed of a source of income. Enter, this tax on empty housing, in collision with the IBI surcharge, which charges exactly the same. In fact, this tax will entail higher management and collection costs when it should be managed locally. As regards the tax on large commercial establishments, there is, as you know, a procedure before the Court of Justice of the European Union, because design involves state aid to certain establishments, thus favouring political clientelism, and this, as you know, is a practice prohibited by the European Union. The new tax is disguised as an environmental tax, to end up taxing the same: the square meters. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, let me explain, Mr. Junqueras, because... instead of the square meters of the place, now what will be the square meters of parking. Because that's what you know it's gonna be like. From Citizens we think that this tax is a case of double taxation: in the face of the same fact – the pollution caused by the mobility of the vehicle – various taxes affect in the same tax period. Although attempts are made to conceal this fact by imputing new taxes on specific types of commercial premises, the impact in terms of air pollution of vehicles is already being taxed on the current tax system. This tax re-taxes them, for a specific destination. But, Members of Parliament, mobility in general includes mobility to specific destinations. The exemption from municipal markets is technically the most controversial element, and it is most likely that this tax will again be converted into state aid contrary to Union law. But also, if it is intended to tax pollution to certain destinations, why exclude the pollution generated by cars destined for Port Aventura, for example? Do they pollute less? The reason is that you only put pieces with confiscatory objectives. With regard to sugary drinks, packaged drinks, Members of Parliament, we all know that taxes are not the right way to change consumption habits, and the clearest example is in tobacco: if their consumption has been reduced, it is not because it costs the box more; it was mainly because of awareness campaigns and the ban on smoking in certain areas. But we have to take into account another consideration that I want to move and that I also consider essential: that it is not beneficial for health and, therefore, that it is not healthy should be considered the product it causes, in this case sugar. It doesn't make sense, does it? , it is not reasonable that only one of the products containing it should be burned. What reasons are there for taxing sugary beverages rather than pastries and pastries that have even higher sugar content? If what we want is to eradicate or limit or decrease sugar consumption, it is logical that sugar itself is burned, so that the consumers of sugar are obliged to use..., well, sweetening products that are not, logically, sugar in their products. We are therefore faced with a clear example of discrimination, by affecting a single category of sugar products, for a purpose which, frankly, is once again exclusively confiscatory. With regard to the tourist rate, we think, first of all, that it is a clear mistake to impose the duty of having a representative in Catalonia on all non-residents. But, of course, what makes no sense is that tourist homes tax as a luxury hotel– 2.25_euros per night–, while a three-star hotel charges 0.6_euros per night. That's nonsense, that's not reasonable. We're moving on to the radiological environmental risk tax. Look, we're in front of the old nuclear tax that the Constitutional has already overthrown. The government again tries to change it by changing the words, changing the name, but the tax it proposes to us continues to coincide with the taxable fact of the state tax on the value of electricity production. It is therefore more than likely that the end will be the same: the Constitutional Court will bring it down again. On the income tax of natural persons, I think they are also wrong. The Generalitat aims to remove part of the deduction from those who bought houses before 2013 and to do so retroactively for purchases of habitual housing made before 2013 and 2006. What he does is change the rules of the game to half-party and harm 250,000 taxpayers who bought his home thinking they would have a tax deduction that they now take away. In relation to the rates, look, we do not at all share the general increase of 4_per_cent of the rates, which in some cases reaches 37_per_cent, as some case of agricultural rates, far above inflation and, therefore, the rise of prices. It will involve a tax increase to farmers, producers, plant protection workers, farmers, transporters, entrepreneurs, foreigners and also to students themselves; it will involve an increase in sectors such as water, culture, history, language study, civil protection, and even to obtain the health card. We cannot share either the new rates or the increase in the existing ones provided for in the bill, and it is that, as my party partner Jordi Cañas said in 2014_my party partner Jordi Cañas, you are addicted to the rates. In the section on administrative measures we find measures that are detrimental to the privacy rights of Catalans, motivated by the persistent attempt to build a database of a fiscal nature. For example, with regard to article 43, we consider that it may violate the Personal Data Protection Act, since the data provided to the Directorate-General of the Police are justified by citizen security and not for the purpose of citizen control. We also find measures that lower the level of audit and internal control of the General Intervention of the Generalitat, which also loses independence; measures aimed at delaying the effective implementation of the Law on Transparency in Grants and Aids, creating now a register whose details are left to the good of the General Intervention to which it has previously been removed independence; measures to ensure that the management of conflicts of interest is left to the office of the President. Let's get the wolf to keep the lambs. It's just, really, they don't have a cure. I'm done – I'm done. Finally, the bill incorporates an abusive sanctioning regime. It serves as an example of sanctions for over-nitrogenated agrarian soils. Look, if it turns out that a farmer buys land that is supernitrogenated, it turns out that he inherits a condition for which he can be punished. It seems absurd to me that in these cases I should be exempt from that possibility. Anyway, I conclude, because I'm running out of time. For all these reasons we oppose the accompanying law that we are debating today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.269.0	Thank you, Mr. Spiny. Next, the words of Mr Rafel Bruguera, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.270.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, councillor, deputies and deputies, late afternoon. The Socialist Parliamentary Group presented a totality of measures to the Bill and later we were also going to present a total of 327 partials; both of them respond to two large objectives, two large blocks or apart. First of all, the Law on Tax and Finance Measures is a real law on buses, which in the debate on totality we have already qualified as a law on buses. The government intends to amend more than eighty laws and legislative decrees, which have to do with tax receipts, tax measures and financing. And it is perverted, in our view, the legislative technique and it is force in an excessive and fraudulent way Article 110.1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, which says that the projects and proposals of the Law must have a definite and homogeneous material object. The list of modifications is wide and varied: Civil Code, Police - Mossos d'Esquadra, Rural Agents, Universitat Oberta de Catalunya, Office Antifrau, Union of Accounts, the Conca, right to housing, urbanism, eagles, Barcelona Metropolitan Area, trading rooms, quarrying, Catalan Agency of Development Cooperation, fishing and maritime action, Institut Català Internacional per la Pau, Institut Català de les Industries Culturals, meteorology, Democratic Memorial, Railway, natural spaces, protection of animals, etcetera. We have never said, and neither do you say, to be fair and precise, the Council of State Guarantees, which is in violation of the Constitution or the Statute. What we give, and the Guarantee Board agrees, is that it is a wrong legislative technique and that it can be eliminated. We see what the Guarantee Board says. "The draft law presents the problems and deficiencies of the legislative techniques of the names" omnibus laws"; it is a long text, which modifies more than eighty laws and legislative decrees, very often on matters so diverse and extended as to accompany the laws of assumptions as follows, and quotes all a rule, even more than I have mentioned. And he ends by saying: "We understand that the Catalonian Parliament and the Government should consider the suitability of maintaining these types of laws, since they may present important problems and deficiencies in legislative technology and, in some cases, difficulties in identifying the content of their standards. In short, what the Socialist Parliamentary Group wants to put on the table is the imperative need, we believe, to open a debate to avoid abuses like that which it is given in this Bill of Measures. That's why we've submitted suppression statements of the precepts that they don't have to see with presuppositional entries, independently of our position on the background and content of the modifications. And, therefore, also, in defense of transparency, that the government says so much defend but does not practice, and of the need for a debate from the ordinary processing of a bill, with appearances, ponència, debate in commission, etcetera, that this is obviously not done in this case. The changes that the Government intends to introduce are so diverse and so diverse that, in some cases, the same vice president and Junts' spokesman for the Yes were unaware of it. I'm referring to the example I set in the previous debate about the modification of the Reel Law for which it makes prostitution to the reelers without a hard offence. In his answer, Mr. Junqueras almost – almost – left me as a liar, denying it. Their reply was so clear and apparently so round and convincing that, at all events, I recognize them, I have doubts about myself. The reason given was that the crime was already criminalized in another law, and it's true. Now, do you know what I'm reading? You say that you are disconnecting, that the only laws that are to be completed are those emanating from this Parliament, it turns out that you were eliminating prostitution as a criminal offence to the pens because a state law, yes, yes, a Spanish law, already contemplates it. And it wasn't done here yet. Do you know what you're talking about? From the Organic Law on the Protection of Citizens' Security, otherwise known as the "Illi mordassa", that all who are here, except the People's Party, yesterday we will start the process so that it is repealed. This is a concrete example that well, that ultimately, therefore, and fortunately, the reason was imposed and Together for the Yes voted in favour of the task of our parliamentary group, with obvious proof of who was right. Some other examples of modifications that we do not share, not formal questions, but for their content. They propose the creation of the railway safety agency. The solution to the problem of the poor quality of railway services does not believe that it passes, in our opinion, to create new bodies and duplicate functions. What the Government of the State and the Government of the Generality should do is to change the confrontation they are accustomed to working together for the benefit of users. On Aigues Ter Llobregat they incorporate an additional provision that means that in the assumption that the Supreme Court confirms the ruling of the TSJ the Government will take measures to recover the public administration. What we're saying is that we're either in a sense or we're not in favour of getting back the water top management and, therefore, of Aigues Ter Llobregat, as demonstrated by the proposed law we've presented. With the proposed amendment of the Water Law for which it makes to the sanitation, there is a radical change in the model of the existing sanitation, and they want to make correct and without the participation of all sectors, the administrations involved and the parliamentary groups. For what it does to nuclear power, we agree to recover the tax figure applied to the Constitutional Court for the Government of the People's Party; another thing is the percentage that is intended to territorialize. We defend that it should be the 50_per_cent and not the 20_per_cent they propose. And the objective is clear: to have a foundation for the reindustrialisation of these areas, as long as the cycle of the life of the power stations is coming to an end. For what it does to residue, the input of assumptions to Precat 2013-2020 is zero. Most of it comes from the Residus Management Fund through the recap of the disposal canon that they pay in locals. The canon pays, I repeat, the locals, but it has some direct effects on the citizens. We advocate that a more accurate analysis be made of the impact of the proposed increases on the citizens and that measures be taken for the population in a more disadvantaged economic situation. They will adopt measures that will directly impact and increase the deficit of the joints. They propose a new law on stays in tourist establishments and a new law on the tax on large commercial establishments. Well, they haven't talked to anyone, and so we can't agree that you're doing it this way, correcting it, nightly and practically treacherous. Modify the Catalonian Tourism Law on the definition of the travel agent's figure and the requirements required of these. We do not agree with the deregulation that is intended to be introduced, which involves the elimination of a legal name to a marketing or organizing combined travel activity. For what it does to sanitation, we oppose that the counselor is able to skip the CatSalut Director Council to make nominations, and we do not share that they cover to the citizenry the repositioning of the health net and, still less, the increment they propose. For what it does in teaching, they claim to modify the exemptions and bonuses for enrolling in the formatting test and others, but we cannot agree that they leave disabled people out of the exemption. Change an additional arrangement, the seven, of the LDOIA, and do not resolve the weight that represents continuing to affect the child's performance. They propose that the Catalan Development Cooperation Agency's economic resources include, and quote, the proceeds of credits, loans and other financial operations. Frankly, we do not think there is any reason for a good solution to finance cooperation through financial operations. These are just a few of the issues that we believe to be important and relevant, which are referred back to the Bill of Measures and which seek to adopt without a debate as to lime, as I have said in my intervention. According to the aspect of our discussions, according to the objective: it is the fiscal policy that is the result of the Bill of Measures, or accompanying, as I would like to say. Mirin, all of his fiscal policy is summed up in €78_million, and in the best of cases, in 109. Depending on whether the sweetenings will result as a result of the predictable constitutional sentence or not. In any case, 78 or 109 million major entries derived from the government's political will, that is, only 5.3_percent of the major presupposed entries. This is his fiscal policy: EUR 78_million. No tax reform, no reform, no reform, no reform, no reform, no reform, no reform, no reform, no reform, no reform, no reform, no You say that you have agreed the assumptions with the CUP, but in the need to tackle at once a more just and progressive tax reform they have no ties to add their votes to the People's Party and prevent it. And the CUP, beyond the posture that we are used to on other issues, has not exactly put tax reform, as it has done on other issues, as is the condition for voting on the assumptions. That's right: change the conditions below to enjoy inversion deduction in usual habitation. Again, the solution is to pay more for what they already pay: the workers, the wage earners and the middle class. In the rural world and in the agri-food sector there are scandalous and indiscriminate increases in taxes and taxes, which have already been punished by this sector for poverty, ageing and depopulation. The prices they charge do not stop lowering and, in change, the costs and taxes do not stop growing. The water channel they offer to the rowers is unsustainable. The measures proposed are designed to counter the need for territorial cohesion. Look, if the government pursues this policy, there will be no farmers and farmers left in Catalonia. With regard to the new tax – that there was a transaction this morning, we had no information this morning – about CO2 emissions from vehicles. Look, green fiscal policies cannot be improvised; green fiscal policies need agreement, consensus and, most importantly, pedagogy to make citizens their own. It cannot be that at the last minute, with night and betrayal, they modify us and, almost, they impose a new tax on us. Because what's going to happen is he's going to pay... he's going to pay for the same vehicle that makes 2,000 miles a year as a vehicle that makes 20,000. And the question is, does it pollute the same car that's been parked in the garage for the whole year that makes 20,000 miles? So, what you're predicting, if we've read well, is that it's going to pay for the same vehicle that's only miles away from a vehicle that's 20,000 or 40,000 or 50,000. They punish people... they will punish people with less resources: those who can't buy a new car, those who have to go with an old car. And they will punish, too, the thousands of autonomies who with an old van try to arrive at the end of the month. In short, the opportunity to face a real fiscal reform, fairer, fairer and progressive, is wasted; therefore, to demand a little more effort at what they generate and have more wealth, both in terms of income and in terms of wealth, and not so much at the returns of work, mid-life and small, which bear the bulk of the fiscal pressure. We are talking and proposing, therefore, the modification of the IRPF's autonomous trams, assets, estates and donations. And you will say: "Well, I... So what we've been defending is a just and progressive tax reform and willfully... with a real political will to fight against tax fraud. We believe that we could enter around an additional 1,000_million euros. And you will ask: "Well, and to dedicate them to what? So, look, first of all, at fiscal policies; secondly, to be able to apply in its totality Resolution 17/11, on social emergence, and, thirdly, also, for 1,190– or those that have not remained, at last– incorporated items this morning; 1,190 items, I repeat, or those that have remained, that Mr Roger Torrent yesterday described as ‘blessings to the sun'. Look, the truth is that the CUP, the one that passed them, made them jump 1,190 times. That's the reality. You will sort the CUP as the only pair of balls, but don't know that it was a stolen ball, a smash ball and that with 1,190 occasions – or those that follow, at the end, 600 or 700 – it turns out that when the CUP crashed it didn't sort them to you to dance, but it sorted the rest of the parliamentary opposition groups. So, a little less pre-potency and a little more modesty; a little less wisdom, frankly, and a little more self-criticism. Because I would have asked myself, and I would have gone through this... which is, I don't know how many items, hundreds and hundreds, the first thing I would have asked myself is, what..., what was I wrong with? What I've done wrong so that I can't prevent it from happening... I don't know, hundreds and hundreds of opposition statements. This is what, I believe, should be a parliamentary group that supports the Government and its spokesman. And I'm done, President, ladies and gentlemen. I don't know if this is going to be the last, last, discussion of the assumptions of autonomy, of an autonomous community. Of what I am convinced, and every day I am more, is that this will be the last..., will be the last presuppositions, for the sake of the country, of Juntes per el Si. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.271.0	Thank you, Mr. Bruguera. The words of Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.272.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Vice-President, congratulated, you already have assumptions, even though it is at the cost that the Catalan citizens do not have recognized the guaranteed income of citizenship, those who are in a situation of dependence have to pay expropriatory co-payments because they do not want to pay 4_percent of the powerful taxes, at the cost that the assemblies continue unfunded for the schools. Today you did not win the game against the opposition, today you won the game to the citizen you need to give it to those who do not want to make a greater fiscal effort. I don't think it's a victory that you can feel very proud of. The reality of the data put forward today – today – with the debate of the Law of fiscal measures, of accompanying, we have the face, the reverse, of which has been the debate of assumptions. If the assumptions and the law of assumptions cannot have social anime, it is because the law of fiscal measures does not have the capacity to recapitulate. Because I accept the argument of some who, in order to spend on social policies, must enter. And this income, today and now, required a tax change that you have not been willing to make. In this sense, I fully subscribe..., our group fully subscribes to the hypercritical appreciation that Eulàlia's Companion Recurring on the Law of Presuppositions made yesterday. What we didn't sign up for, logically, is the double deadly leap that leads to this appreciation and then vote for the assumptions. Because it's legitimate to say that that's why we're going to disconnect from Spain, but the truth is that you've said it so many times, you've used the excuse of the process many times to assess some absolutely unfair assumptions and laws of tax measures that I don't see because this time we have to believe them. No tax reform that makes you pay more than you have more is not possible to meet the needs of those who need it most, which are many. I know that they are boundless and not all can cover, but you today resign, you are forcing Parliament to give up a tax reform that allows us to have more resources to make more social policies. A redistributive policy opportunity is being lost, and it is inconceivable that there is a majority of the Parliament, because it exists in this chamber, to bring forward the tax reform that some of us have proposed, the Republican Left of Catalonia, taking away everything that has always been their theoretical idea, so renounced to do it. On the way they have already been parked, you can see in the Sessions Diary, but... all the proclamations of Congressman Pere Aragonès when he was in opposition, today secretary of the State of Economy, about the need for this tax reform. And if we have to deal with what President Puigdemont said today, the truth is very worrying, because today with the answer he gave to Companion Lluís Rabell, addressing everyone, he said: "It is you who do not have the majority, because the fiscal policy that will be approved here is that of the majority of the chamber. And, of course, here is Democratic Convergence, Republican Left, the People's Party, Citizens and the CUP, logically, which forms part of this majority that will approve assumptions and approve a tax reform law. I think it's not like that, but unfortunately intentions can be one another, but that's the reality. In the debate of totality our companion Marta Ribas has already told us that we are apostatizing to make a real redistributive policy, and reminded them that these assumptions imply a flagrant incompliment of Junts' election program for the Yes. Of course, to say that you do not complete the electoral programme is not to give a news, it is not to give a first, among other things because you have presented with such an important subject as the national demands in Catalonia that the referendum was a past screen, that you have already done the plebiscites on 27 September, that you have a compromise of unilateral disconnection in divided_months, and, at this time, it has already been seen that no of those commitments, no of those electoral programmes continue to see, but, contrary, they have returned to the last screen. Without a tax change, it is not possible to push social policies forward. And therefore, it is not true that you repeat the most social assumptions of history. You don't know how hard it is, do you? But I've heard it said many times in the castle to Mr Montoro at the Congress of Deputies. And these assumptions are as social as those presented by Mr Montoro in 2016. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, you know, from this point of view. Nor is it true that these assumptions serve for a change in the social and economic model. It is not, they are not serving a more sustainable model, because this requires a new tax architecture of environmental taxation. And they can't do it, as Mr. Bruguera has already said – I agree completely with him–, they can't do it by presenting a transactional message to us today at the last moment, setting a CO2 tax. No, no, huh? Things can't be done like this. You were very happy when I told you this in the City and saved you a parliamentary defeat, but you didn't apply it. We can't come here with some plans together for the Yes... Environmental things, environmental fiscal policies are serious things, they are not interchants to justify the ‘yes of the UPC in this and to get bad consciences. Who wants to get rid of the bad consciences that are going to be confessed, but does not put ourselves in this reality of having to place a debate in some conditions as we have at this time. Clearly, he's not that weird either. Because it doesn't surprise me that you've taken on this liberal dogma. In short, they are the fiscal policies of Convergence and Lifelong Union. And don't embarrass me because, in fact, you pride yourself; you have publicly qualified yourself before a business environment like the true liberal, right? : true liberal, isn't it? Clearly, if the Republican Left of Catalonia is defined as the true liberals, if it is ruling with those who have always, all their life, defended ultra-liberal fiscal policies, it is normal for you to make liberal policies at this time. Of three..., of a cyst with twelve buds does not add up to a cyst of melons, of which there are ultra-liberal policies, social-democratic people, obviously, that you have been gloating many times. Okay. You may consider them love, but the truth is that this is very little love for the people who need it. Perhaps you feel love for other people, the people who do not want to pay taxes, the 4_per_cent who are slipping away thanks to the tax policy that you have approved at this time. And this... during this legislature is the fourth time that Republican Left renounces fiscal policies. The first was in the discussion of the assumptions made in 2016, after which we made Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, the Socialist Group and the CUP, and you have always ended up voting with Ciutadans and the People's Party, which, from this point of view, in political and economic matters, coincide with you all and which, as with all your lives, then argue in national terms, but coincide with it. Today, for us, for Catalonia Yes, it is a great pride to bring the view to this Parliament, to bring the voice of unions and social entities, of the platform Poor Zero, of the Platform for a Fair Taxation, for the people of the ILP commission, who are clearly raising the need to address the debate to reduce inequality and the poor from progressive and redistributive fiscal policies. And we are proud that we are also in tune with 77 percent of the people of Catalonia who, according to the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio, prefer to pay more taxes if it is for the sake of better public services, posing this story that ours is an expropriatory tax system; that you know that it is not true for much that the Spanish and Catalan right insists on it and you have bought it with the facts of the presentation of this bill. The Government and those who vote – in this case, Together for the Yes and the UPC – tell us that the Law of Presuppositions and the Law of Accompanying vote them to facilitate disconnection with Spain. Some, after all, have dared to say that it is to overthrow the regime. So good! I don't know what kind of rules they want to put down if they're going to support the rules of those who never want to pay taxes, but every one of them does what you think is right. Actually, what's going on is that you with these laws are not disconnected from Spain, they are still more connected to 4_per_cent Spain. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't worry, I don't sweep this debate with that of corruption, I don't refer to the 4_percent of commissions per public work, no, no. I'm talking about another thing: 4_percent of the taxpayers who are affected by the proposals we're proposing. They're no more, they're not the majority of the population, they're not the middle classes. Today you are not disconnected from Spain. Today you are even more connected to the Spanish of the privileged and you are even more disconnected from Catalonia of the needy. This is the absolute reality. Because you want to take away the class debate, but it is clear that when it comes to discussing fiscal policy, if there is something that has class content with politics, meaning doubt, it is the issue of fiscal policy. And you bet for a certain sector of the population: a 4_per_cent against 96_per_cent. Our group has put forward proposals to deny this idea that we only demand social policies and, on the other hand, let us not take the money out of it. So, no; we've presented them with ideas that you've recognized that they're very and very well-worked. Certainly, in some cases it coincides with the report that you have made as the department that outlines the possibilities of making tax reforms. Make a report because we asked for it and then report it to the guard in a cell. That is to say, do not make them; the conclusions of this report, at least the possibilities that there are, do not pull them forward. I insist, our tax reform plans only affect the 4_percent of the taxpayers' population. In the heritage tax our measures that we propose affect less than fifteen thousand people. And I would especially like to call attention to our proposals for inheritance and donation taxes, which, as you know, are the ones that have the greatest capacity to influence the reduction of inequalities, because each time it is more obvious, there are more empirical evidences than inequalities as wealth can be inherited. And that acting on heritage and heritage is a good way to prevent inequalities from being reproduced and passed from one generation to the next from the same families to the same time that these inequalities were increased. And you don't, either. You don't want anything to do with this. That's right, they practice a phariseeism in pure state. Very similar to that of the OECD. Two days ago the OECD presented a report denouncing precariousness, the low wages that the Spanish economy had, that the Spanish society had, to continue to say that it had to go deeper into labour reform, which is just what is at the origin of this social sacra. You guys do the same. You, in favor of compassionate capitalism, are lamenting inequality and the poor, but after social political fans that they do increase this inequality and this poor. And when opposition groups put up alternatives to build a more just tax system, you simply reject it by putting your policy to the service of this 4_per_cent. That's right, they're showing that they're reforming their taxes. Look, the truth of the Catalan government's attitude is very curious: it is refusing to do everything with what it has clear competences, that we have no problem and that it could collect hundreds of millions of euros of taxes, which are worth 1,000_million euros, and, in turn, present as an alternative rather ambitious tax reforms that are in the competition limit, that some of them may not see the light, that in the best of the cases, as the friend Bruguera has already said, can come to contribute 109_million euros. The truth is, this resignation didn't just hear it. And then, while you're doing this, while you're refusing to pay more than you have, it turns out you're pulling a tax policy. And I will not do as some group, the Ciutadans Group, has done, "to devastate tax policy in general, because it is obvious that taxes are part of a potentiality, of one of the possibilities that our tax system has. But doesn't it seem to you a little incongruent to keep, for example, the fee, and increase it, for the renewal or repositioning of the health net, so, no more? Or to keep the fee for the issuing of foreign reports, instead of eliminating it? Clearly, how are they different, then, from what the Spanish government does in this matter? And give up one thing that is important: they are asking all the assemblies that incorporate the concept of social pricing, as the Barcelona Assembly, for example, has done with the topic of public preus públicas with regard to the topic of bressol schools. And you don't just don't do it, you just keep co-payment systems, I insist, on dependence, that what they do is expropriate the pensions of people who are in this situation, because they practically don't leave them butxaca money. This is expropriation, not what you say we do when we present our proposals for tax reform. Well, this is the central element of our opposition to this bill, and that is why we will vote against it. Let them know that, in any case, this bill has also been drawn up – as always, as it has been with everything you touch – without any type of dialog. I've been reported by social entities; they've come to see all of us. It has been found that he has placed himself on the table without having dialogue with them. And from this point of view, it is clear that we do not impute this lack of debate to the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes or much less to its spokesman. I believe that he has made every effort and has done everything possible within his limitations, but as you have subverted the order – it is not the Parliament that controls the Government, but the Government, which controls the Parliament and also its parliamentary group – so the margin of manoeuvre that has left him has been smaller. I am sure that if you have left more room for manoeuvre in the parliamentary dialogue today we could come here with much more agreement, from that perspective. We have put forward some ideas, which I hope are voted on and that this time no one is wrong, and I am not looking at anyone, but, please, no one is wrong in this vote – let us hope that we are not following – in the matter of tourist establishments, no, in the matter of tourist establishments, which is very important. And, from this point of view, very, very, very, very much the theme of the role of the joints in the hour to use the tax of tourist establishments not only to promote the tourist activity, but also mainly to reverse, to compensate for the negative externalities produced for this tourist activity. We have a lot of elements, a sense of doubt, that justify this. We exposed them, exposed them to Marta Ribas at the time of her intervention in totality, and here I do is to reproduce them. Just insist on a question, end with the same words that the company Marta Ribas ended at the moment in the campaign to totality: it is very sad, very sad and irresponsible, to give up using this tax margin. And it's especially sad that you do that when you say that you defend the freedom of our people, because, Mr. Vice President, I'm sure if you look at me in the eye you'll agree with me that there can be no freedom without equality. And every opportunity that is lost to advance in equality and equity is an opportunity that is lost in defending freedom. And that's exactly what you guys are doing today. I'm sorry, but your victory has not been against us, it has been against the citizens who need it and whom you have ignored in order to prevail at 4_per_cent who do not want to pay taxes. I hope that life will give him more benefits from a social point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.273.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Next, the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.274.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, on the 21st of September, we discussed the issues to the totality that we had presented the different groups of opposition to this Bill of Measures – and I was relieved of the title, because if I say all the title will end my time – and we explained what our position was respect for it. That's right, to differentiate our theme from the totality of that presented by other parliamentary groups; we say, our history with boldness and cursiveness, because it wasn't the case that someone, therefore, was confused with the purpose of the papers. That is to say, one of the possibilities for this intervention was to try to make some point on each of the proposals contained in this Bill, but, actually, I made a calculation like that a little quick, to see how much time I had to talk about every bill that modifies this bill and it took us about eleven seconds per bill. Then, as you will understand, it is absolutely impossible, in eleven seconds, to talk about each of the more than eighty laws that modify this Bill of Measurements, and many other things, so as to position us. And in this sense, we will focus, and I will focus my intervention, on what is nuclear from a project of these characteristics, which is what the government's fiscal design is about in relation to this law. Not because the rest does not matter, because there are articles, many articles, which have an extraordinary importance and an extraordinary relevancy. Some even object to the processing of draft laws in this Parliament, that I do not know if it will be worth continuing to process them, because the government and its majority will have already said theirs in this draft law, and therefore somehow what they are doing with this law is supporting an important part of the parliamentary debate. With regard to tax figures and the government's fiscal policy, we have already said and ratified it, we are convinced that taxes are necessary, they are essential, it is the main tool that we have the administrations to redistribute wealth, and it is obviously the necessary tool to finance public services. Now, we have to bear in mind that there are a few of the taxes, and it is that, in the end, taxes are collected on people, to whom we spare resources to devote them to these policies. Therefore, insofar as fiscal policies are aimed at increasing taxes, and therefore at securing more citizens' resources, which are ultimately the ones who create wealth, as the citizens pay the most – not the Citizens, but the citizens of Catalonia – fewer possibilities need to be created. And if there's less chance of creating wealth, it's harder to redistribute wealth, which is precisely one of the effects of taxes. Therefore, from our parliamentary group what we do, we have said, we have repeated it at the length of time and at the length of the debates, is that we bet on fiscal moderation, which is just the opposite of what this government does, what previous governments have done and what this government does. That what this government does is push taxes, put taxes on us and, more importantly, push what we already have. And we were already the Spanish community that paid more taxes than everyone else, and after approval of this Action and Follow-up Bill, they were still more. If there were differences with respect to the communities that came later, from the approval of this law, there will still be more differences, being the community with the greatest tax burden of all Spain: more taxes and more taxes – more taxes and more taxes. I got a tip on the taxes. I repeat: the tax on large commercial surfaces, the discrepancy respects the planting that is being done. We are not opposed, and you know it perfectly well, to place limitations and limits on the establishment of new commercial surfaces. We are in favour of giving support to small trade; of giving direct support to small trade through investments in barrels, through investments in city centres, through boosting the spaces where small trade has to fight day by day. You're in favour of imposing a tax. But, of course, what is not a waste – what is not a waste – is that you then accuse us of being defenders of the great commercial surfaces and of you, of roundabouts, colin a task for which they authorize four nine great commercial surfaces in Catalonia: thirty thousand square metres to Jonquera, ten thousand square metres more to Vilanova, I do not know how many thousand square metres more to Blanes, I do not know which other municipalities... Home, this is not a waste. And, more than that, the government doesn't do it through the Bill of Measures, but the Junts Group does it for Yes through a slogan, pam! , glue without debate, and, come on, pull forward, so we will have other commercial surfaces that will pay these taxes that you have imposed. Therefore, discrepancy with regard to this aspect. Another aspect that needs to be highlighted: ignore the effects of tax evasion. Some of you think that if they impose taxes on companies that pay these taxes they will be the companies and that these taxes will not end up impacting on the products or you serve those companies to market. And that's what I'm telling you with a special relationship to the tax on the radioactive elements. That is to say, it is not compatible to say and complain that the price of the light in this country is very much because – and that is, we are absolutely in agreement – the same time that a tax is imposed for the generation of electricity, which will be on the bill that the citizens will pay. Therefore, it is an incongruity and we want to denounce it and we also want to justify our position in this sense. We've already talked about the tax on sugar beakers. Don't worry them in absolute health problems, the only one that worries them is recap. It is not a tax that is designed or designed to reduce the consumption of sweetened drinks for the effects that they can have on salvation, it is a tax designed solely and exclusively to recapitulate, with no difference from what may have an effect on salvation. And, well, we would go to the tax of documented legal acts and the tax of heritage transmissions in which Catalonia was one of the communities that we were not in the topall, yet there were communities that were over Catalonia, I suppose that this makes them angry and how we should be more than anyone, with this bill of law correcting this situation and from now on also being the community that will have the tax of documented legal acts and the tax of heritage transmissions higher than all Spanish communities. Well, listen to me, it'll be a merit that we don't share it, and therefore, we denounce it and justify our opposition to these taxes. For all this, too, pam-pam, another tax on CO2 emissions from vehicles, which is also part of another law that is being passed here in Parliament, the law of climate change. But then, Pim-Pam, we're in the undisputed circle in this bill. About what they don't change..., and here we disagree, we've already said it some other time, respect some parliamentary groups that have their fix on increasing taxes to 4_per_cent. No, what we want to do is lower taxes to 80 percent. Why? Home, therefore, because the Catalans that have yields less than 30,000_euros per year are the Spaniards we pay the most taxes of all Spain. And, therefore, we understand that it is necessary that this 80_percent of taxpayers who declare less than €30,000 per year pay taxes that are reasonable. Not that we follow the champions of all Spain, that they pay taxes that are reasonable and that are equivalent to what they are paying the rest of Spain. And, besides, that's good for all these taxpayers who are surely those contributors on whom we complain that they have lower wages and that they are certainly more difficult, from the economic point of view. So, it would be good news, and in this sense we have submitted papers to the bill, that these taxpayers would be tax-free; which would increase their disposable income, increase domestic consumption in our economy, and therefore also prevent the creation of wealth, and, listen to us, in addition to, incidentally, increase the collection of other taxes on consumption. Okay. And that's the status of the bill you're putting in. So, disagree on the tax policy that you draw, disagree on the tax changes that you put in place, disagree on the tax level that you consolidate and modify upwards in this bill, but also disagree that this bill is used to modify these other eighty laws that I have cited and that, as time is what we have, neither can we remember one at a time. Two examples: one, already mentioned, the subject of Aigues Ter Llobregat, which is also the result of a project, of a proposal for a law that is in parliamentary proceedings, which has held all its debates, which are about to end, but that the Government, therefore, does not care that the debate on this bill has ended and, through an article, we carry all the parliamentary debate that has aroused that bill. Or another that is also pending, which is the Law of Public Spectacles and Recreational Activities, which is also in parliamentary processing, once again. Also, through an article, the government and the groups that support it amend this law which, I insist, is in parliamentary process. Therefore, the conclusion is: more taxes, but more, legislative changes without everything the government assumes, is to say, without transparency and without debate. And I, if I may, will tell you, with very low democratic quality. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.275.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Next is the words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.276.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Members and Members, a book begins that is a referent, the Communist Party Manifesto, with a quite well-known appointment, which says that « a flat ghost over Europe, is the ghost of communism. All the forces of old Europe have joined forces: the pope, the tsar, Metternich and Guizot, the French radicals and the German police, in a sacrosanct Croatian against this ghost. If the historical leap is allowed and obviously saving the differences, after all that we have felt during this legislature and what we have to feel in this plethora of assumptions, we may be able to version this old quote saying that a ghost is going through Catalonia, it is the ghost of the CUP. All the forces of the old Catalonia have allyed themselves: the pope, the king, Iceta and Albiol, the radicals of the old PSU and the police of Ciutadans, in a sacrosanct Croatian against this ghost. And I say that because, certainly, everyone attributes to the UPC both the elaboration of assumptions and the responsibility to practically everything that happens in this Parliament. And that, to us, people who are so receptive, it sounds a little like this ghost of the date, doesn't it? Because we would already like to have this ability to focus on a Monolithic Assembly, which brings us to this plenary a law of practically identical measures that we voted for at the plenary session of the whole, and in which we criticized at that time and which reproduces all the arguments and all the considerations that we made in this very fabric, right? But perhaps the most interesting part is the second part of the quote, the one that speaks of the sacrosanct alliance of forces against the UPC, if it's allowed, right? , or of sacrosanct alliance of forces to keep alive the rule that on top of the baffle of 78. And it is that we cannot fail to lay on the table the great amount of alliances that have occurred in the processing of these assumptions and the Law of Measures between Junts for the Yes and the Popular Party, between Junts for the Yes and the PSC or between Junts for the Yes, the PP and the PSC, always to drop the items that the CUP proposed to improve this law of follow-up. Mirin, of the ninety-five items that we presented as CUP to the Bill of Measures, only five – five – have been approved directly for the group that supports the Government, and fifteen more have been traded at the bottom, which gives us a result of twenty approved items, which is practically the same as the one that passed with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, where they have also been estimated in more than one item, which shows, to say the least, what is the action of Juntes for the Yes in relation to the rest of the groups in the chamber. We have had seventy – seventy – reviews of what we have presented to the Law of Measures; reviews of administrative contracts, an area on which every day we have news of how it is a focus of corruption; we have tried to lay down social responsibility clauses in the general government's award-making undertakings which raise in a minimum inter-professional salary of EUR 1,000, such as collecting the Juntes per el Si programme and collecting the resolutions of the general policy debate; we have also put forward our papers with real criteria for fighting against tax havens. And that wasn't taken for the government, unfortunately. And it's hard for us to believe the government's speech when you say you don't have enough resources and, in turn, when you can act against tax havens, you don't fight fraud and tax havens. And so, in this sacrosanct Croatia of the forces of the regime have fallen these seventy items relating to the internal persons working for the Generalitat, the persons affected by the IRPH, the question of the shutdown of nuclear power stations, the destruction of the territory via Barcelona World, the question of the expansion of the Circuit de Catalunya, etc. Therefore, let us bear in mind – let us bear in mind – that seventy of our papers have been fallen for the sacrosanct Croatian of 78. And let us bear in mind, in change, that paradoxically Together for the Yes has seen all its reviews approved, not with the votes of the CUP, but with the votes of other forces of the parliamentary arch. And let me put, at least, a few examples in relation to the Socialist Party of Catalonia, in this famous social-vergent concertation. Think, for example, of the 712 issue. The Emena 712 involved the expansion of the commercial zone, outside the consolidated urban plot, to Collbató, Vilanova and the Geltrú and the Jonquera, of three large commercial areas. In Jonquera no more than thirty thousand square meters of nine commercial surfaces. After we say we bet on the proximity trade. I suppose you have nothing to do with the fact that the mayor of Vilanova and the government of Geltrú who is also a Member of Parliament here for the PDECAT; that the government of PDECAT collbatado with Esquerra, or that the beneficiaries of these thirty_ thousand_metres_squares to Jonquera follow the entrepreneur Antonio Escudero, one of the prohoms of the Party of the Socialists of Catalonia to the High Empordà, who has been governor for this formation for twenty years. Is it true that at the time of voting we are registrar for public interest, for the defence of the interests of the community? Or let's go to item 728, which has not only been approved with the votes of the PSC, but also with those of the companies of Catalonia Yes, it is possible, in what is provided for a question, I think, quite extraordinary: it is to enable the social services, any social services, any administration, any worker or worker, to hold the qualification that follows, the position that is within these social services, to access all the data of the patients of the Catalan Health Service. That's what they approve together. That is to say, it's still curious that at a time when it was so much because the tax data ceased, that if the Vidal case, that if it turns out that the government was yielding tax data..., now we agree to yield all the data of the social services..., all the data of the Catalan Health Service, I forgive, to the competent public administrations in the field of social services. Oh, come on, she's a little bit of a hypocrite, isn't she? When it comes to tax data, rich data, there has to be data protection. When it comes to the health data of the poor, then data protection is not so important, because, effectively, this no longer concerns us and what is needed is the greatest transparency and the greatest administrative invasion. And let's go to a third example – I think it's the maximum splendor of the concert « sociovergent- Catalunya Yes it's Pot –, and it's the question of the additional arrangement designed. Mirin, the additional arrangement draws, which was a political agreement to which we had reached the CUP with Junts per el Si for the processing of assumptions, which ugly was to shield the lines of P3 publics of our country. Directly, the additional provision prohibits the sealing of any line of P3 that exists publicly in our country. Ostres, you, present a Catalonia theme Yes it is Pot, PSC and come to an agreement with Junts for the Yes that leaves no effect on this armoring and introduces an exception. Says: yes, armouring of P3 lines, but when the Federation of Municipalities or the Catalan Association of Municipalities arrives at an agreement with the Department of Education, then we can close the P3 lines. Man, that's interesting! So, when the P3 lines are closed by the Department of Education, it's a big barbarity, but if they're closed by the Federation of Municipalities, can we sign them now? What kind of criteria is this, the one that you precisely introduced to us in an armor of the lines of P3 that guarantees the public P3s and, therefore, we try to introduce a criterion in which in those municipalities where this is considered will be preferred the concerted and the lines of P3s are sealed? No, if we already know that we are very alone in the defense of public school, because the only ones who defend the public school model without a concerted school – without a concerted school – are here, from the position we have defended at the CUP. Therefore, there are three examples that show us as the Law of measures that we would vote is the result of a combination of different majorities where not necessarily the most set nor the most protagonist has followed the UPC. It is true that we have obtained some better after the entry into force, such as the CO2 tax, which was so critical of Catalonia Yes, it is possible, as a text of cooperatives, that I think it is a historic adventure that guarantees rights, and I think that in this sense we must congratulate ourselves on improving the working conditions of people affected by false cooperatives, who tend to charge extra hours, to have paid holidays, to have a right to maternity, that is, to have absolutely basic and essential conditions, but let us say more, of these small details, we must conclude that we have lost an opportunity; an opportunity to build republic, to hear, to overcome autonomy and, above all, to overcome the model of administration. We follow where we are, we follow where we were on the day of the vote to the full, we continue to maintain the arguments we had at that time, and insisting that it seems to us that the economics officials of this government have not moved necessarily where they should have moved, left-hand side, and that we have lost another opportunity that could have been in favor of the people of this country, and won another battle the 4_per_cent fame. And in this sense I want to point it out, that the only time the Republican Left voted differently to the PDECAT was in relation to the bulls issue in Torroella de Montgrí. I think that in a vote where we voted practically a thousand items, that Esquerra had only the ability to mark profile in the question of Torroella de Montgrí's bulls, well, we celebrate it, in this sense, because we agree with the position that Esquerra has maintained, but it does not cease to be, I think, a little clever, does it not? , from the level of politics to our country. Well, I'll finish. We have many contradictions; we have exposed them these days. We also have a lot of doubts about the decision that we are near and we don't feel people happy about where we came from, because we wanted to get a lot more far from where this measurement bill came from. Therefore, we will vote two votes in favour of this accompanying law, such as country compromises, in favour of the referendum, a referendum that is indispensable for democratic reasons, for historical necessity, to put the process and the process to rest. A reference which, in our view, calls upon all the people and all the political formations that we are democratic, and a reference which must be made and which calls upon us, beyond laws, permits and prohibitions, and from a state of law which, we repeat all the times that we need, has not killed the father, and which is a solution of continuity of the legal rule of the year 1939. Therefore, we must say, and with this I want to end, that we are very saddened by the attitude of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, that the PSC has decided to take us to the courts, which today is a historic day, not so much for the question of the referendum, but for the attitude taken by the Socialist Party, which aims to go to the Constitutional Court when today we know that it is a body of repression, of incapacity, of fine and probably of imprisonment. In this context, some of us invoke that 70-year-old PSC, that of the good people of the 70-year-old PSC who demanded democracy, and that of the 80-year-old PSC, who worked together, just recovered 1979. I myself know the son of a PSC registrar of that time and they'll have the guts to think that from today's PSC people we'll keep them on the other side, and that you'll play on the side of the handles, the arrests and the prohibitions to fight against the referendum. We will continue here, we will follow wherever we are, we will maintain ourselves in the defense of public servants and of the common good, "faithful to the service of this people, as the poet said, and we will maintain ourselves with determination and conviction as a guarantee of the celebration of a referendum, because at that time, then, we hope, proclaim a republic that is above all hope and future for the service of the popular classes of this earth trosset. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.277.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. The words of Mrs Maria Senserrich, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.278.0	President, Vice-President, Counsellor, Councillors, Members, Members and Members of the Government accompanying us today at this parliamentary session, well, on 21 September 2016, just three months ago and one day, we had the debate on the totality of the Bill of Measures, which was presented to us by the Vice-President on behalf of the Government, a law that we could basically differentiate in two blocks, the tax block and the block, let's say, administered. The tax, therefore, allowed us, with taxes and taxes, as much new creation as modifications, would be an impact on the Generalitat's entries of approximately 109_million euros for 2017, but with a full year set at 181_million euros. And in the second block of measures contained the share of economic management of administrative action, which there are, therefore, various questions, already water, poor energy, housing, agriculture, territories, culture, transparency, teaching, salvation, etc. I'll save them the long list, so it's a law of a hundred articles and various dispositions. I understand that many groups have said that it is a complex, multisectoral law. Precisely this, the measuring law is this. I mean, it's not a sector law of a very concrete thing, but it touches a lot of questions, and that doesn't have to do us for, to undertake these questions, to debate them, to talk to them and to agree. In fact, from the first day and from this very day, and on behalf of Juntes for the Yes, I told them that, despite the fact that some groups had presented the message to the totality, we would not give up at the moment at the actual dialogue and negotiation. And that's what we did in the parliamentary process, we talked to everyone – everyone. We've accepted reviews from everyone, we've made deals with everyone, and not just one band, but two, three, four, and all bands, because we firmly believe in this dialog and this negotiation that we give them. We've reached consensus. Surely not all that you would particularly want for each group. Actually, we've heard... for one song we're being criticized for doing one thing, and for the other song we're being criticized for doing another. Look, I have the feeling that we're doing well, because if some people say around here and some say over there, then we're going down the downtown lane and we're going to what the country is asking us and what the country needs with this law. In fact, we have spoken to everyone and, in fact, Congressman Salellas makes reference to it: the first parliamentary group we accept of..., and with whom we negotiate the most is with you, with the UPC, but the second is Catalonia Yes it is. So, from the right to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, to the right, Because our will is this, it's finding these solutions. I told you in the Bill of Measures, at the first debate, therefore, that this instrument has to be used to improve the lives of citizens, and our attitude is and will always be positive towards this. And that's why we worked to get it. Actually, look, I'm taking advantage of it to give thanks and change the whole of the interventions I've been given before. I would like to thank the work of the parliamentary groups and, in concrete terms, of the Members who have worked on this law: the deputy Espinosa, Mr Bruguera, Mr Coscubiela, Mr Rodríguez and Mr Salellas. You see where, all ladies and a lady; but, well, we have fully understood each other, I believe; certainly not as much as we wanted, as I said before, but we have made the effort. All this work that has involved us, so many reviews, many transactions, has allowed you to make a good law. Some have defined it as "Frankenstein"; well, define it as you think fit, but we have come to an agreement, that this was the intention, and this is our job as deputies and deputies of this chamber. And, in fact, many have made reference to the Board of State Guarantees, which, for which you see, served for one thing yesterday and today does not serve for the same. I mean, there's a unanimous agreement that there's nothing illegal, no stranger or subject, that some people wanted to see that there were shadows in this law and things that we wanted to put through the back door, and that's not it. Therefore, for a song it serves them and then it does not serve them. I have a criteria and a consistency; I do ask them, that's what I'm saying, because everything has to serve the same criteria, if not, what we're doing, isn't it? So, if the Board of Guarantees has told us that we don't have to worry about anything, that the citizens are calm and, more importantly, it's a law that, yes, it's a complex law, we recognize it, we don't store it, this question, but it's true that it was necessary. And we have come to an agreement on very important issues, such as the issue of empty habitats, tourist facilities, CO2 tax, which I have not forgotten, this CO2 we have not invented at the same time and again, there was a point of the UPC, which we have already announced in committee and in question that we have already been working on, in environmental taxes. On the contrary, the governing agreement with the CUP was to work on these issues. We've also come to an agreement on things at the last minute, like college priests, that I am sincerely very proud that this agreement has been reached, because it really shows that when we talk and talk, we get great things. Also co-operatives, protection of the natural environment and many other themes that the estalvios also enumerate. We know, though, that this wasn't happening here. It's no wonder, today we approve the Law of Presumptions, we approve the Law of Measurements, we're done with the work, no. We go on day by day, we keep working. And in those questions that may have remained on the table, I'm already with the CUP, mainly, because it's with whom we have, so, this agreement in the assumptions, we'll continue to work there. In fact, there are environmental taxes that we have put in place to work on climate change, so I continue this debate and this dialogue that has not yet given its fruits but that we hope that this will be the case in the next weeks and months. And, well, as I say, willing to consent, we'll find common ground, always in place, and... but today, look, we've approved the assumptions and surely from here we'll approve the law accompanying these assumptions. But I think it's a waste that maybe this attitude that we've had to try to come to terms with is what should be exemplary and that we haven't found ourselves badly while we're on the presuppositions. When we wanted the assumptions we all rejected our mobile phone an unpleasant news: the news that condemned Mr. Francesc Homs, accompanying this obviously condemns, therefore, what we already knew of President Mas, Councilwoman Rigau and Vice President Ortega. We don't like it. And, look, my mother always said, "Don't be misconceived unless you lock her up; so I must be misconceived because I think I'll lock her up. It is not by chance for me what happened today, that in the middle of the vote there is a feeling when everyone already knew that we were going to have the assumptions – everyone knew it, we didn't get it; it is a transparent thing – that it is precisely today that a condemnation of the Supreme to a person who put the ballots..., democracy because the citizens and the citizens as independent as they could not be independent can exercise their vote, I think it's not a coincidence, and it saddens us as a parliamentary group and as Catalans and Catalans. But, well, I had to say it and say it because I think the will we have from Juntas to Yes and the government to come to terms and have dialogue and negotiation isn't all that bad. And that makes us very sad. But, well, let's go back to the Bill of Measures, already in the final part, that we will proceed to the votes. But I wanted to make some thanks, because the law continues because now it has to be applied and it has to be continued, but the part that we have done so far was an important part, and I want to make thanks, so first of all to my parliamentary group to give me this confidence, to grant me the confidence and the challenge of doing this accompanying and measuring law, with these characteristics, the situation, the circumstances... but I think we have done a good job together; all the companies, individually, that have helped me at every moment, in whatever issue and they have always been there, one by one, with their themes, that each of them carried. Give thanks to the team of professionals of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes and the Parliament, who have helped us at all times to develop our pocket as Members and Members, and, if I may, especially Mercè Puig, which is the technique that has especially accompanied me to do all this teamwork. And finally I want to end by remembering a sentence that has been with me for a few years that said an illustrious egalactin, which said: "Don't tell me it's impossible; things have to be proven. We've tried it, we've done it, and we'll make it happen. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.279.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Senserrich. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] Isha distributed the voting guide. There have been changes at the last minute because the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group has called for separate votes that they themselves will now explain. You have the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.280.0	Yes, thank you, President. Yes, just inform the plenary that we have recently tabled... they should all have the voting script corrected. It is simply for informational purposes, apologizing for the precipitation, but on page 12 of the voting script it speaks of vote 4 already of the bill, eh? We have asked for a separate vote and we have divided that point 4 into three points: 4a, i.e. 4, 4a and 4b. In 5, 5 bis, 5 ter, 5 quater and five quinquies. Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.281.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.282.0	Let's just go a little bit, yeah. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, it has to have everyone – it has to have everyone in the last script that came out ten_minutes ago, a_quarter. It's just so we're all clear, we've got it the same way, huh? I mean, I told you to split the vote. In the vote 4 in three paragraphs; in the vote 5, five paragraphs; in the vote 6 it is divided into three paragraphs: 6, 6a and 6b, and in the vote 8, 8a and 8b. And everything else like... 9 as it was... 10, 11, everything as it was, okay?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.283.0	When we get this vote, we'll just go a little bit and read it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.284.0	Exactly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.285.0	If they seem...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.286.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.287.0	...when we get to these changes, the ones that are in blue, the changes that you have in blue, when we get there, we read them and we go a little bit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.288.0	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.289.0	Yeah. Mr. Bruguera, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.290.0	Yes; for allusions, Madam President. Briefly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.291.0	Thirty seconds, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.292.0	Simply, to tell Mr. Salellas that if he is so interested in a specific person in Jonquera, if he wants me to explain to him in detail the years that make this person not a PSC activist and the reasons for which he is not a PSC activist, I will be happy to explain it to him personally, with documentation, and I do not think that here is the most opportune place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.293.0	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Bruguera. Before we begin with the votes, we shall inform you of how to order them: firstly, we shall vote on the reserved items of the Bill of Measures; secondly, we shall vote on the compromise items; thirdly, we shall vote on the legislative technical item and the technical item; and, fourthly, we shall vote on the text of the bill's opinion. We shall therefore begin by voting on the reserved items. Vote 1 is item 2 and item 441. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 45 votes to 61, with 25 abstentions. Vote number 2, which ranges from item number 3 to item 96, item 2, because items 625 and 626 are subject to transaction. So now we're going to vote on these papers. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 36 votes to 71, with 25 abstentions. Vote number 3, which starts with item number 6 and ends with item 472. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 26 votes to 82, with 24 abstentions. We vote number 4, which starts with item number 5 and ends with item 476, because 477 is a transaction object. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 26 votes to 71, with 35 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the items that go to number 8, start with number 8 and end with 672. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 26 votes to 79, with 25 abstentions. Vote number 6, which starts with item number 18 and ends with 73. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 17 votes to 81, with 34 abstentions. We will continue to vote No. 7, which goes from Emena 76 to Emena 328. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 26 votes to 71, with 35 abstentions. Then – it's one of the points they have in black – we'll do the 7a vote, which is Emena 82. The vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 26 votes to 96, with 10 abstentions. We will continue to vote for item number 4, 206 and 231. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 16 votes to 81, with 35 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 708. The vote begins. The draft resolution was adopted by 62 votes to 60, with 10 abstentions. Next, vote number 10, which starts with item 138 and ends with item 670. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 61 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on the 378 and 810 exams. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 60 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Voting number 12, which begins with Emena 130 and ends with Emena 503. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 51 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 736. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 60 votes to 62, with 10 abstentions. We will then vote on the 102, 501 and 539. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 51 votes to 71, with 10 abstentions. Next, vote number 15, which begins with Emena 155 and ends with Emena 657. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 51 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. Vote 16, which starts with Emena 127 and ends with Emena 548. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 41 votes to 91, with no abstentions. Next, vote number 17, which begins with item 56 and ends with item 548. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 40 votes to 81, with 10 abstentions. Then vote 18, which begins with Emena 77 and ends with Emena 668. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 51 votes to 71, with 10 abstentions. We shall then vote on voting No 19, which are items 117, 527 and 553. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 41 votes to 81, with 10 abstentions. Voting number 20, which begins with Emena 114 and ends with Emena 551. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 41 votes to 71, with 20 abstentions. Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.294.0	To ask, please, President, if you can read the contents of the 359 item that we will vote on at these times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.295.0	Okay. [[Pause.]] Mr. Coscubila, let's leave it to vote on it later, because we're going to look for the puzzle, okay? We don't have it here, the text, huh? [[Pause.]] Let's leave the vote for later, while we're looking for the puzzle. So let us leave voting number 21 and proceed to voting number 22, that voting number 22 is Emena 358. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 60 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote for the item 362. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 51 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 357. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 60 votes to 62, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 350. The vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 51 votes to 71, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 658. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 44 votes in favour, 87 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on items 331, 407 and 508. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 36 votes in favour, 96 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote number 28, starting with item 513 and ending with item 663. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 35 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the 494 and 544 items. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 26 votes to 97, with 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 671. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 35 votes to 87, with 10 abstentions. We will continue to vote for the 516 and 531 items. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 25 votes to 87, with 20 abstentions. We will continue to vote number 32, which starts with Emena 380 and ends with Emena 650. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 45 votes to 71, with 16 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the issue 398. The vote begins. [[Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]] We're stopping the vote. [[The president gives the word to Joan Coscubala Conesa.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.296.0	It's to ask for the reading of Emena 398, if that's possible. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.297.0	If it seems to you, we'll now proceed to read Emena 359... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] First we do the other one, huh? We had a pendant left, which was 359, which is the first one we've been asked to do before we got here, and we said we were waiting. So now we're going to read the Emena 359 and then read what Mr. Coscubila asked of us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.298.0	"Esmena 359. Grupo Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. Amendment of the letter to paragraph 2 of Article 47. a. A minimum of 50_percent of the recapitulation of the fund derived from the recapitulation of the general fee shall be allocated to local administrations, depending on the recapitulation corresponding to the establishments and equipment referred to in Article 24(3), subject to the conditions which are established on a regular basis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.299.0	We vote, therefore, foreshadowed 359. The vote begins. The item was adopted by 70 votes to 62, with no abstentions. Next, we're going to read item 398.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.300.0	"Esmena 398. Grupo Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. Addition of a new Article 130a. Paragraph 2 of Article 17 is repealed, "Amendment of Law 25/98, of 31 December, of administrative, fiscal and adaptation measures to the euro", of Law 6/2014, of 10 June, of amendment of Law 2/1989, of 16 February, on recreational, touristic, and establishment of standards in matters of taxation, trade and gambling.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.301.0	We are voting now, therefore, for 398. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 44 votes to 72, with 16 abstentions. We will then vote on the 418 and 520 items. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 35 votes to 80, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 523. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 35 votes to 71, with 26 abstentions. We will continue to vote number 36, which starts with item 499 and ends with 647. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 35 votes to 80, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote 37, which starts with item 497 and ends with 537. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 25 votes to 88, with 17 abstentions. We will continue to vote number 38, which starts with the 507 and ends with the 552. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 25 votes to 81, with 26 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the 519 and 524 items. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 35 votes to 71, with 26 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 528. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 25 votes to 81, with 26 abstentions. We will then vote on the 525, 546 and 557 items. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 25 votes to 70, with 36 abstentions. We will continue to vote number 42, which starts with the 400 and ends with the 799. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 34 votes to 97, with 1 abstention. We will continue to vote number 48, which starts with item 74 and ends with item 402. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 24 votes in favour, 106 against and no abstentions. We'll continue to vote for item 202. The vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 26 votes to 96, with 10 abstentions. We will continue to vote on exams 75 and 612. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 26 votes in favour, 106 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote number 46, which starts with Emena 146 and ends with Emena 152. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 16 votes in favour, 116 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 118. The vote begins. It was rejected by 16 votes in favour, 106 against and 10 abstentions. We will then vote on 108 and 585. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 26 votes to 96, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for Emena 820. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 25 votes to 97, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 147. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 16 votes to 106, with 10 abstentions. We will continue to vote number 51, which starts with the 101 and ends with the 119. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 16 votes to 96, with 20 abstentions. Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.302.0	To ask for reading, and I think it will be the last, of the item number 363. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.303.0	Three hundred and sixty-three. Is Barcelona's special rule the emena? [[Pause.]] We proceed to reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.304.0	"Esmena 363. Grupo Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. Article 47a, special rule of Barcelona. The city of Barcelona will enjoy a special rule attached to its characteristics, with the influence of the touristic impact in the municipality. And for this reason 100_percent of the resources coming from the tax on the states of the touristic establishments generated in the city of Barcelona will be transferred in any case to the Barcelona City Council, which will be able to allocate them to what you consider most appropriate to their attributions and competences.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.305.0	So we're going to the vote now? [[Pause.]] Are you voting, Mrs. Granados, or are you asking for the word? [[Pause.]] Ah. We now proceed to vote on item 363. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 96 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on 353 and 354. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 35 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 390. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 35 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 665. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 20 votes in favour, 112 against and no abstentions. Mr. Salellas, why do you ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.306.0	So to ask him to read one of the papers. I'll ask you... I'll do it on four occasions. In this vote, we would ask you that from the item 774, you get what is paragraph 2.4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.307.0	Emena 744?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.308.0	No, of the 774 – set, set, four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.309.0	Yes; he lost, 774, yes. Paragraph 2.1.4?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.310.0	2.4. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.311.0	It's a little long, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.312.0	"Section 2.4 of the Emena 774. The Catalan public sector will only be able to award public contracts to companies and entities which in submitting their offer are committed by writing to pay to their workers and workers for the performance of the service a salary of at least 1.200 euros per fourteen months in relation to working days of forty hours of weekdays as well as to compliment them during the performance of the contract. In the event that the offer does not include the declaration relating to the minimum wage and is not present at the request of the contracting authority, it will be excluded from the assessment. Subcontractors will also be subject to the previous obligation. If it is always necessary to respect the minimum wage in the previously explicit terms of the Catalan public sector when leaving the clauses of the public contract procedures, it will have to incorporate the obligation to submerge the working conditions established in the appropriate sectoral collection corresponding to the activity contracted during the whole execution. The content of the appropriate reference shall conform to the minimum working conditions of the workers and of the workers who develop the subject activities of the contract. Subcontractors will also be subject to the previous obligation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.313.0	So now we proceed to vote 56, which begins with the 466 and ends with the 824. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 18 votes in favour, 112 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the 430 and 432 items. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 10 votes to 121, with 1 abstention. Then we'll vote for the papers, Mr. Salellas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.314.0	In order to ask him to read one of the papers, before the vote; concretely, of the theme 801.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.315.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.316.0	"Esmena 801. Dinovena. PDU of singular characteristics. 1. The figure of the Pla Urbanistic Director of singular characteristics is repealed, with the express derogation of Articles 56.1, letter g, 56.6 and 157a of the text recast of the Law of Urbanism of Catalonia, according to the modification made for Law 3/2012, of 22 February. Two. Derogation from all urban master plans approved to the emperor of this figure which is now derogation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.317.0	We shall now proceed to the vote on items 783, 784 and 801. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 9 votes to 113, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote number 59, which starts with... well, tell them that the 749, which was in this group, is an object of compromise. So it starts with Emena 751 and ends with 804. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 19 votes to 97, with 16 abstentions. We will continue to vote for the item 786. The vote begins. The draft was rejected by 19 votes in favour, 97 against and 16 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the 584 and 586 items. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 10 votes to 106, with 16 abstentions. We will continue to vote number 62, which starts with Emena 364 and ends with Emena 817. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 35 votes to 72, with 25 abstentions. We will then vote on the 124, 125 and 126 items. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 26 votes to 72, with 34 abstentions. We will continue to vote for item 474. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 35 votes to 62, with 35 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 167. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 16 votes in favour, 91 against and 25 abstentions. Mr. Salellas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.318.0	So, to ask for the reading of Emena 819, which is what it sees now, the next vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.319.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.320.0	"Esmena 819, added to a thirty-seven additional provision, which is drafted in the following manner. Thirty-seven. Point 1. The workers and workers of the Government of Catalonia, whether they are temporary staff or temporary staff, who have been Roma for 30 months in the last three years in the same place of work or so will become fixed staff, whenever their degree and professional level is equal to or lower than A22 in the case of General Administration staff. This limitation by degree and professional level will not affect the working staff concerned or temporary teaching, sanitation, social services and criminal execution, which will become fixed staff. Point 2. The Government is obliged to summon the corresponding opposition during this 2017 to regularize access to public office for most of this staff.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.321.0	We now proceed to vote on Emena 819. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 25 votes to 72, with 35 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 116. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 16 votes in favour, 71 against and 45 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 361. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 36 votes to 71, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 360. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 26 votes to 81, with 25 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the 352 issue. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 26 votes to 81, with 25 abstentions. We will then vote on the 391, 392 and 481. The vote begins. The statements were rejected by 26 in favour, 72 against and 34 abstentions. Then we'll vote number 72, which starts with the 410 and ends with the 480. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 20 votes to 87, with 25 abstentions. Then we will vote number 73, which goes from Emena 742 to Emena 825. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 19 votes to 88, with 25 abstentions. Vote 74, which goes from Emena 337 to Emena 435. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 10 votes to 97, with 25 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the issue 366. The vote begins. The draft was rejected by 19 votes in favour, 78 against and 35 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the 76th vote, which goes from the 414 to the 451 vote. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 10 votes to 86, with 36 abstentions. Vote 77, which goes from Emena 564 to Emena 674. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 10 votes to 97, with 25 abstentions. We will continue to vote 78, which is only item 759, because 404_was the object of the transaction. So let's vote for the Emena 759. The vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 29 votes to 62, with 41 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the 79th vote, which goes from the 336 to the 666th vote. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 20 votes to 71, with 41 abstentions. We will continue to vote number 80, which starts with Emena 345 and ends with Emena 815. This is where we get the 404, because it's been... I'm sorry, the 750, because we'll vote for it later, okay? Mr. Salellas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.322.0	Yes, Madam President, because please read 800, which is included in this vote. It's the last thing we ask of him. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.323.0	I'm asking all of that. [[Pause.]] We proceed to reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.324.0	"It gives 800, in addition to a new additional provision divided. Come on, let's go, Measures to protect against IRPH. 1. The Civil Code of Catalonia is amended in the sense of adding an article 569-28a to it, with the following wording: In view of the protection of consumers and consumers, it is prohibited that if the mortgage is calculated with a variable type of interest, the creditor share which unilaterally fixed this interest and its fluctuation, already directly, together with other creditors, is already in the amount of some type of arithmetic medium of the types offered to these creditors. ........................................................................................................................................................................... Point 2. A transitional provision is added to the Civil Code of Catalonia relating to the previous modification, with the following wording: The prohibition contained in Article 569-28 has retroactive effects in such a way that the mortgage contracts affected in the subsequent six-month period of its entry into force will fix a new type of reference granted between the parties that, in the event of a failure to agree, will be the most important difference in the current market. In this renegotiation the parties will agree on what is convenient about the bailout. The prohibition contained in Article 569-28 and this transitional provision is also applicable to fixed-type mortgages arising from the substitution of an old IRPH interest. ........................................................................................................................................................................... Point 3. The Catalan Consumer Agency will issue a report on the replacement process of the IRPH within thirty days after the completion of the previous deadline on the compliment of this arrangement by all and each of the banking entities operating in Catalonia. And point four. In accordance with the considerations of the report of the syndicate Protection of the affected persons for the IRPH and the motion 227/X of the Parliament of Catalonia, as of 31 December 2017, the Government of Catalonia will not be able to carry out any suitable contract, contract or award to bank entities that have valid mortgage contracts with the reference index of the IRPH.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.325.0	We shall now proceed to the vote of this whole group of debates, less than 750, which we shall vote on after. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 19 votes to 72, with 41 abstentions. We will continue to vote on this item 750. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 20 votes to 95, with 16 abstentions. Next, we will vote 406 and 431. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 10 votes to 81, with 41 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the 427 and 457 items. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 10 votes to 71, with 51 abstentions. Then we will vote number 83, which goes from the Emena 558 to the Emena 664. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 9 votes to 81, with 41 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 617. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 71 against and 51 abstentions. We will continue to vote for the item 454. The vote begins. The item was approved by 123 votes to 9, with no abstentions. Next we will vote number 86, which went... No, the theme 714, which is: « Part 2, Torroella de Montgrí. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. The vote begins. We're voting for Emena 714. The vote begins. The draft resolution was adopted by 46 votes to 44, with 42 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the compromises. Voting number 1 is the transactional issue between the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes and the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, register 54498, between Article 194 of the opinion and the 625 and 626 documents. The vote begins. The item was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote number 2, which is the transactional issue between the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed, register 54582, relating to the issue 749. The vote begins. The draft resolution was adopted by 71 votes to 51, with 10 abstentions. We will continue to vote number 3, which is the transactional theme between the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Yes and the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Cree and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, relative to Emena 477. The vote begins. The draft resolution was adopted by 96 votes to 11, with 25 abstentions. Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.326.0	To ask him to read this transactional thought, and profit to aggravate. on behalf of the group and company Joan Giner, to all the groups of the chamber that made possible the issue of the transaction in the question of university taxes. He's done a good job. I don't look at anyone, Alicia; I look at everyone, but thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Also, also, I forgive, I forgive..., the chairman of the Economic Commission too. Everyone, I'm sorry, I was wrong, everybody. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.327.0	Mr Coscubiela, let's turn to the reading of vote number 4, which is the transactional theme of Junts for Yes and Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, relative to preus universitaris, it is 404. Okay? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.328.0	« Preus publics university. During the year 2017 will modify the government's policy decree and will be in force for the course 2017-2018, in the following terms: Letter to. Extending a scholarship model and equity to university masters. Letter b. Apply a greater progression in the discounts of each income tranche in the grade studies, practicing reductions like at least 30_per_cent over the total price on the lowest income tranches, currently 1 and 2. The necessary parties will be enabled to compensate the public universities before the possible losses of entrances, arising from the application of this additional provision and in accordance with the current legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.329.0	We shall therefore proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The item was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the legislative technical issue number 3. We shall now proceed to the vote. Vote number one of the legislative technical issue number three. The vote begins. The item was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote number two, which is the technical theme number one. The vote begins. The item was adopted by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will then vote on the text of the opinion of the Bill of Measures. Vote 1, which is Rule 160. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I have to read a note: « In accordance with Article 62.2 of the Statute of Autonomy, the amendment of the Law of the Union of Accounts requires the favourable vote of the absolute majority of the House of Commons in a final vote on the joint text. Therefore, we shall put this Rule 160 to the vote. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 71 votes to 51, with 10 abstentions. We will continue to vote on Rule 186. The vote begins. The article was suspended by a vote in favour, 123 against and 9 abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Not yet, not yet. [[Widow's remorse.]] He's been rejected, he's forgiven – he's been rejected. It's just that I don't know if he'd seen so many of us. Dismissed. Then we proceed to vote on Rule 222. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 110 votes to 10, with 9 abstentions. Then... it's one of the articles we've told them before that we're reading, because it's one of the articles that split into three. First of all, we shall vote No 4, which is Rule 2, aside 10. From paragraph 10 to section 171. Okay? [[Pause.]] Therefore, the vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. I'm asking you to read all the points. So let's vote number 4, which is Article 2, paragraph 10; Article 38.1; Article 40.2; Article 120, paragraph 2, and Article 171. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 115 votes to 10, with 7 abstentions. We shall continue to vote..., we shall vote on the 4a, which is Rule 103, the paragraph relating to the amendment of Rule 12-26.5 and Rule 184. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 88 votes to 35, with 9 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the 4th, which is Rule 26, paragraph 3. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If it seems to you, it is true that this vote has remained that the result has not been seen. If it looks like it, we'll repeat it again, or if it looks like the result already... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They're watching. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right? [[Pause.]] So, come on, keep going. [[Widow's remorse.]] This is Rule 26, vote 4b, section 3. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's the same thing again, huh? In this case, it was also approved by 90 votes in favour, 10 against and 32 abstentions, but we might have to settle this. [[Pause.]] Is that it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. So, let's keep going? [[Pause.]] We shall now proceed to vote No 5, which is Rule 91.2, second paragraph; Rule 100, second paragraph; Rule 102, second paragraph, relating to the amendment of Rule 12-25. [[Funnel veils]] Yeah? Article 191(1) and Article 191(3). The vote begins. The articles were approved by 74 votes to 51, with 7 abstentions. We will continue to vote 5a, which is the additional provision 3. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 112 votes to 10, with 10 abstentions. We will continue to vote on additional provision 6. The vote begins. The additional provision was adopted by 88 votes to 10, with 34 abstentions. We will continue to vote on Rule 217. The vote begins. The rule was approved by 106 votes to 26, with no abstentions. We shall continue to vote on Article 2, paragraph 17; Article 4, paragraph 2, and Article 5, paragraph 1. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 74 votes to 26, with 32 abstentions. We shall then proceed to vote No 6, which is Rule 143, paragraph 3, paragraph 4; Rule 147, paragraph 1.4; Rule 153, and the seven additional provision – that is, the seven final provision, previously referred to as the seven final provision, but it does not exist. Okay? [[Pause.]] Let's get to the vote. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 114 votes to 11, with 7 abstentions. [[Greetings. Widow's remorse.]] We will continue to vote on Rule 204.2 and Rule 218. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 87 votes to 33, with 6 abstentions. We will continue to vote on Articles 149 and 181. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 90 votes to 10, with 32 abstentions. We shall then proceed to vote No. 7, which is Rule 2.13(b); Rule 23; Rule 143; Article 10 and 11; and 185.22. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 100 votes to 25, with 7 abstentions. We shall then proceed to vote No. 8, which runs from Rule 9 to Rule 215, paragraph 9. The final Sisena provision could not vote on it because it was a mistake and no longer existed in the opinion. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 79 votes to 10, with 42 abstentions. Next, we shall vote on Rule 91, Rule 102, Rule 131, paragraph 10. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 79 votes to 35, with 17 abstentions. We shall then vote on Article 2, paragraph 4; Article 95; Article 200, paragraph 14; Article 207, paragraph 4; and the first derogation provision, paragraph 12. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 105 votes to 10, with 17 abstentions. Then we'll take vote number 9, which is 176, apart 2. The vote begins. The article was approved by 97 votes to 35, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the remainder of Article 176. The vote begins. The remainder of Article 176 was approved by 81 votes to 51, with no abstentions. We shall now vote on the rest of the text of the opinion not affected by all previous votes. The vote begins. The opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the draft law on fiscal, administrative and financial measures in the public sector has therefore been approved by 65 votes to 59, with 8 abstentions. [[Greetings. Pause.]] The results are 65, 60 and 7. The women arriving at an alteration of the order of the day – let's continue with the plenary session. In view of the request made by the Government, the proposals, in accordance with Article 81.3 of the Rules, the following alteration of the agenda, in such a way that point 9, relating to the Government's inquiry into the depopulation of rural areas, can be substantiated as if it were on the agenda, and this point 6, referring to the Government's inquiry into the appointment of the new director of TV3, is substantiated as point 9. Can this change be approved by consent? [[Pause.]] The order of the day is modified, therefore, in this sense. [[Question to the Government on the saturation of health resources and the impact on accessibility]] [[300-00115/11]] The fifth item on the agenda is the question to the Government on the saturation of health resources and the impact on accessibility presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Thanks for going out in a hurry and quiet. It has the word the lady Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.330.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, this inquiry, in fact, my group had intended to present it at the end of its generation, it could not be and I am very glad that it was here with all of you and I can do so. Even I would have liked to have not even presented it because the subject that motivated it, so it might be more or less resolved, but I see that it continues to be necessary. Today we have a tweet of emergencies from the Hospital del Mar deia: "At this moment we have one hundred and thirty patients waiting for emergencies, and they are more than twenty-four hours old. And add a very clear text: "We want solutions accompanied by solutions. I refer to the resolutions adopted by this House during the month of February. It is certain that the pressure on emergency services has diminished, good weather helps. And the good department that took advantage of it and, in fact, for which they told us and for which it was published, they are already closing the external beds that were opened up from the PIU, that is, from the winter emergencies in the Tauli Park. The Tauli Park, which they themselves define as the most collapsing hospital in all of Catalonia, has just removed its head of emergency and, according to we have also read, by their order, they have opened a disciplinary expedition for mismanagement. I leave it here, but it's a better example of what things are like right now. This winter's grip has exposed many shortcomings, especially the lack of agility to reverse and re-open closed beds, extend times and strengthen the PIUC with more mediums. These measures and others have been incorporated into the motions that were approved, as I said, during the month of fever; just as it was approved to provide greater resources and improve the ability to act of primary care, because if the emergency patients exceed the twenty-four hours of state that we have approved here, also in the first place the expectations exceed forty-four hours approved. And in some places we're running around these days at the twenty-one-day waiting for you to give it an hour. At this point, counselor, has a revolt, say, small, but revolt, in some CAPs, concretely fifteen CAPs of the metropolitan area that speak of saturation, of an unbearable pressure of assistance, effects of the flaps and of reductions of staff not rested nor in anticipation of doing so. I have been told by the Metges College in the same article where this comes out of the fifteen CAPs: "It is not possible to demand the excellence of the system if its professionals are abused. And with this panorama you, counselor, said passed at a session of the Health Commission, the session of a year's term of office in which you wanted to come back to the committee, and we appreciate it, explained to us that you had completed 85 percent of your goals. It was, I recognize, a good account for you, not for the rest, that we look at the reality and see that we do not respond to expectations. From this compliment of object or object that you have marked or have marked the Government Action Plan for this mandate or for this year, you have and some stones remain on the Sabbath. Today my group only wants to talk about three, three that refer to the principle of equity. These days, whether we are working or that we have practically finished the work of the Ponència appearances for the universalization of sanitation, we have also heard of a lack of fairness when we speak of universality, especially for what it does on accessibility, accessibility from the territorial point of view and also for what it does at the time of waiting. We do not guarantee in this sense, therefore, neither fairness nor accessibility. And I said, I wanted to talk about three things. Emergency. You have tried to cover up criticism with the promise of the national emergency plan, explaining that you will have great structural reforms. We don't know what this plan is looking at, we don't know if it's reordering beds of fat, socio-sanitary workers, we don't know if it's more personal..., we don't know. We'll wait for you at the end of March, at your presentation. For the time being, the only one we've seen has been the 061 campaign, which is fine, but it will only be a piece if it is not equipped enough with the primary and if it is not improved, in the past, the working conditions of the operators of this service. Don't go on, counselor, we'll end up undressing a functioning saint. In this sense, I ask you to take care of me, that I have a lot of faith. Primary attention, which should be the access door to the system, "the vertebrate axis, as you define it yourself. I will not repeat what I have already told you about the times of CAP and CUP or of servings, which have not recovered either timetables or servings. Before I spoke to him about the discomfort of the professionals, it is that in an answer that you gave us to a question that my group asked..., it is that between 2010 and 2015 we lost 2,461 professionals– professionals in general, eh? – in primary school, and only retirements by the year 2020 will lose 209 metges – in this case medical professionals – more. And let's continue with the strategic Pla of primary care and community health. And, lastly, waiting lists. You said to us: "Management of costs, efficiency, decrease of the number of patients who exceed the period of guarantee or reference, is to say, the most ancient..., phrases that came out in the result, the presentation of the balance of 2016 and that I would like to counter them - there is a reality, as we say the other day, cough that it is, and that sees us every day. Hope list of surgical interventions: 164,000 patients, 4,000 more than 2015; there are 13,000 who have been waiting for more than a year. Diagnosis trial patients: 135,000, waiting for a median of 85 days, 14 days more than 2015; certainly, to make a mammogram, 110 days of mitjana. The first visit to external consultations: we have 532,229 patients, with a median of 152 days – are their data, eh? I don't make one up. For the allergy, let's wait a half-hour of 248 days, which means that when we have them in the spring of the year you see, let's hope it's better than this in allergy fears. And to trauma, 134; only because the sounds, to which they remain in the room, the time of reference because they give you the visit is 90 days. All this without knowing... and I keep thinking that there are people who don't know how long they're waiting to be on a waiting list. And one of the obsessions that we are going to reiterate in our interventions is that we believe that private assurances are growing and, therefore, there are people who leave the waiting list – in their indicators the abandonments arise – and, therefore, they have gone to the private. And that's nothing more than another lack of fairness, therefore, because we deepen inequalities: if you can pay, don't wait; if not, you already see. Look, counselor, I don't know if all these thousands of people who are waiting, or the patients of the Hospital de l'Esperit, Sant de Santa Coloma, can be told that we have completed 85_percent of the targets. I speak of the patients of the Hospital de l'Esperit Sant, Santa Coloma, among other things because, in order to operate cataracts, they will wait 249 days, they will wait 126 days longer than the rest of Catalonia. Therefore, it will be difficult for all these people to be able to tell them that you have completed 85 percent of their goals. My group wants to present a motion in this sense, in the guarantee of fairness, talking about the territory, but also about accessibility and waiting lists. It will possibly be the four that we have discussed in this Parliament, but that it is not enough to insist that things are done; all the while waiting, counsel, that you complete the motions approved in this Parliament, you present the announced plans, and, as you say, the tweet that you gave to the iniciator, of the Urgencies of the Hospital of the Sea, we want resolutions, but these resolutions come with solutions. The resolutions can all be approved here and in this Parliament, many of them also with the vote of the parliamentary group that supports the Government, but the solutions, counselor, depend on their political will and their ability to govern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.331.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. There's a word from Mr. Antoni Comín, Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.332.0	Thank you, Madam President. Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament who are in the Chamber, the people who listen to us from the guest gallery, as always, I thank you for all that is clearly built, more than we can be more or less in agreement with the diagnosis that is being made. A general consideration, which would mark a little the general conclusion of the intervention that you made: we are talking about issues so important to people, as you explain, honourable Member, that you will agree with me that we need to look for real solutions. And, therefore, we cannot play the game of magic solutions. There are no magic solutions to the problems we're talking about. There are no magic solutions to make our primary school even better and to put some working conditions on the primary school professionals as they deserve. There are no magic solutions to solve the collapsing situation in our emergencies. There are no magic solutions to reduce the waiting time of people who wait, with infinite patience, on a surgical waiting list, on a waiting list of a diagnostic test, for a first visit. There are no magic solutions and, therefore, we must, in respect of the people, work all, government and opposition, on real solutions. And the problems you're talking about, which are three structural problems, of the first magnitude, are problems that need specific and differentiated approaches. Let's start with emergencies. Urgencies – I've tried to explain many times – is not a..., it doesn't go to bed, or it didn't just go to bed, and even it wasn't just a premise. The emergencies, like the rest of Europe, like the rest of Spain, are the miracle in which it is, at these times, more dramatically reflecting the shift in the pattern of the health demand of public systems, as a consequence of the demographic change. In a society where life expectancy increases – thanks to the success of the health system, of course –, it changes the dominant pattern of health demand, and we move from a predominantly acute patient demand to a predominantly chronic patient demand, a complex chronic patient demand. And the emergencies are feeling the reflection of this. Therefore, the National Emergency Plan, which we will explain in detail when the time comes, tries to make an accurate diagnosis of this new demand and tries to see how we modify demand, influence demand, the behaviour of demand, and how we modify the offer with which we are responsible from the public system to this demand. The case of Tauli, for example, is a case that we have very identified, it is a specific case that responds to an insufficiency of the structure of the hospital. The Tauli emergency plant has de facto become an ingredient plant. Why? Because it's a hospital that doesn't have enough drainage capacity. Why don't you have enough drainage capacity? Because you don't have enough hospital beds. And in the case of Tauli, the action that will really solve in a structural way, effectively, in a sustainable way, the unbearable situation of the emergencies of Tauli will be the reversal that will result from the agreement signed by Sabadell's Assembly with the Department of Health, of 4_million euros, for which we will be placed in Tauli Hospital, thought directly to multiply the capacity of drainage of the emergencies. And, like the case of Tauli, we could look at cases on a case-by-case basis. Therefore, there is an urgent need for thorough analysis to understand the complexity of the general situation and, later, the specific situation of each hospital. For what it does to primary care, in primary care we want an approach that goes beyond putting resources. How about more resources for primary care? Yeah. Cal increase seedlings? Gradually, yes; that is, to recover the seedlings that have been lost over the last few years. Yes – yes. So when there's a drop per motherhood, for the reason that it is, there are replacements, so that the teams don't have to load with the care pocket of the companies that are down? Of course it's hot, low. It's all gone. All this forms part of the Strategic Primary Care Plan that is working at these times, participating with the primary professionals, because we want them to be the ones that are building up according to the planner, which is the department, the solutions. We don't want to do it from top to bottom, we want to do it, and we've been doing it for a long time – and you know it perfectly – with the collaboration of professionals, with a very sophisticated, very complex participation process, so that the plan comes out in front of professionals, they must have done it. But this plan goes beyond the best of plants, it goes beyond providing resources. He also gave them more ability to resolve; therefore, to define in a more effective way the portfolio, the new portfolio we need, certainly, to respond to this new demand. Before you said: "the primary in relation to emergencies. Let us not forget that the current primary could only deal with a 12-percent of the cases that went to hospital emergencies today, and, therefore, only with the primary, as it is today, our emergency would remain practically the same. I have explained it many times: we need to strengthen the CUP, we need to better guide the city's decision when it has a concern that makes it go to the emergency door today. But in any case, I said, we want a strategic plan of comprehensive primary care, which addresses many issues, which addresses issues related to management autonomy, which is a permanent demand. You know, I don't stop walking around the territory, I don't just go to hospitals, I go to see primary care teams; I've been talking to Berga people a few days now, and I'm going back to my sister with people from the metropolitan city... Every primary is a world, and the autonomy of management is a frequent, usual demand. Here, we have to move forward. But they are changes that can't be done suddenly and one day for another, because they are changes of truth. Because just like with the emergencies that with primary attention – and this is the message we must honestly give – quick solutions are not good solutions, and you know it, honourable Member, quick solutions are not real solutions. Fund solutions are not immediate solutions, and I want fund solutions, discussed with the best experts, both in the case of the National Emergency Plan and in the Primary Plan, with the best experts. Now I will not repeat it, because I have done it many times, the number of expert meetings, the drawings and drawings of experts, commissions, working groups, that for a year we have been building these two plans, because we want to go to the ground, because we do not want magic solutions, because magic solutions are false solutions and because the sector would not forgive us, that we promised magic solutions that would fix the problems. So, let's solve the issues from the department's responsibility, but with them. In the National Emergency Plan, you know, the best experts have participated, the sixty best emergency planners we have today in Catalonia; the sixty best emergency planners, there is no shortage. To be sure, the emergency director of Tauli was one of the people who participated in the working groups of the National Emergency Plan. And in the first place, there are drawings and drawings of the people who participated in it. Waiting lists. Lists of hope..., therefore, must also be told the truth: we have made many efficiencys, even if we do not have a presumption, we have made many efficiencys during the year 2016, and still have an extended presumption..., I will say it: more efficiencys than I would have predicted, because the decrease of a 6_percent of patients on the list of hope for a guaranteed procedure means an important effort on the part of hospitals, which with the same presumption has succeeded in absorbing much of the list. Therefore, we have overcome the prognostic that I myself would have dared to do at the beginning of the mandate. The reduction of 20_percent of people on the waiting list for a first visit, the reduction of 6.7_percent of people on the waiting list for a diagnostic test, we made it with extended assumption. And now you're putting on the clock, putting on the counter and starting counting 365 days, which is what it takes so that one year from now you can demand that the waiting time for the diagnostic phase be reduced to half, which is our commitment. Today we are at a half-hourly waiting time of 152 days on the first visit and a half-hourly waiting time of 85 days on the diagnostic test. One year from now, we need to be in the middle. One year from now, to count from today, we have to be in the middle, and this is our compromise. Therefore, here we are certainly ahead of an object that has a much more unique, unique connection with the premise and with resources. In the case of the primary and in the case of emergencies we have to make a diagnosis of the complexity that overcomes the problem of resources. And I'll finish explaining it in the next answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.333.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word "Mrs. Escarp."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.334.0	Thank you, President. It's true, we need to look for real solutions – I share that, counselor – not magic, because there are no magical solutions or triumphalistic balances, huh? I also said it because it's hard to say: "We've completed 85... You, Mr. Comín, have a very complex responsibility, because it's a responsibility that never – ever – we'll manage to keep it all right, we'd say, or all the better that we want, and it's a responsibility that involves people very directly at a difficult time. Therefore, we do have a task of prevention and health education, of doing everything we can to protect, but it is also true that we face the disease, and therefore it is a responsibility that can never – ever – be neither triumphant nor triumphalistic; it is a hard responsibility, at the same time as magnificent, for which it can be of public service. And in this sense, I meant it. Therefore, it is true, there are no magical solutions nor triumphalistic balances. Miri, you say: "Structural reforms are needed. We absolutely agree. Home, he went and didn't go; he also went, because any change has to be done in short, medium and long terms. Structural changes are long-term, and it's true that we have to make a lot of structural changes. It is true that our sanitarium, which is magnificent, has worked very hard with what we call the codes, has it not? With that, with the evils that we considered to be priorities in the Health Plan, that it is true that they have allowed us to broaden the hope of life, but that many times we have abandoned or have not structurally addressed the problems of everyday life, day by day, chronicity, complex chronicity, as you said. The demographic changes, too, derived from social changes and economic changes. All this is what we find in our system, which works very well, we would say, exception, or codes, and, in change, day by day we find ourselves with this. And they need, as I said, short, medium and long-term measures. Therefore, we need to think about the length, and we are absolutely in agreement: structural reforms. Now, we also need to think about how we're going to approach 2017 and how we're going to address this long and these structural reforms with a split_months mandate, which I don't know how many of you are left with, depending on how you count, but in any case, it doesn't seem like it's going to be too long. I said: "It is also a presupposition. Because, look, the assumptions that we've approved today, that you've approved, you explained to us the moment you explained to them that I'm going to return a third of the details. But we all know, and I said it, that you are oblivious to say that you are already generating a deficit of 1,000_million euros annually. We're running out of 1,000 million euros to always get to the assumption that we approve of the assumption that is being carried out. And it still lacks 450_million to get to the presupposition of 2010. So, man, one part is health spending and it's assumptions, because you know that with OECD indexes and general indexes, we're going to have to get around 1,500 euros per capita in health spending, and at this point we're not getting there and we're pretty far away. Therefore, it goes from the premise – it goes from the premise – to the resources and it goes from many other criteria: professional criteria, criteria of salvation, but also political wills, and, therefore, that things are more or less a day. I, counselor, and I said, I mean, I think the measures that are called and planted at length in terms of primary or emergency..., that is, in order to fix emergencies we need the primary to work. But we also need to make a change, and this is a structural change, but we need to start taking action now with the number of beds; maybe we have structural beds and we lack them – fat beds, huh? , I mean – socio-sanitary. Perhaps we will have to make reforms of those who will explain very well, but in order to explain them well, it would be worth having this panorama also scheduled in the sense of what we want – we can make short – the resources we can devote to it and which is our perspective in the long term. I've said it many times. I think that sanitation, health requires planning, and the last thing that you can have, and that coincides with you, it's improvisation, and lately we've got the feeling that we're improvising a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.335.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. Then there's the word Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.336.0	Thank you, President. Benvolguada MP, you ask me for planning and I explain plans to her; it's been a year since I explained plans to her. When I explain plans to you in less plans and more facts, and then in less facts but more planning. I don't know how to make the planning out of the plans. I don't know, I admit, it's a limitation that I have; I don't know how to do planning on the margins of plans, and when there are such structural issues, very hard-working plans – a lot of work – and, therefore, we've given ourselves all the time we need to work on them. Does anyone in this hemisphere know what it's like to plan without plans? Will you explain it to me? And then, if the idea seems useful to me, then I'll try to take it into account. People of improvisation. Why did I want to do the balance of a year's term of office, exactly? To deny the argument of improvisation in a blunt and once-in-a-lifetime manner. Because I, for one year, as I demonstrated the other day, have done nothing but try... –"I mean the Department of Health, my directors general, the directors general of the secretaries... –, all the team, all the technicians, all the professionals, all the fabulous technical structure that there is in that department we have done nothing else, led by the councillor, than complete the commitments I announced on February 11, 2016. Therefore, if anyone has not improvised, if anyone has been predictable until exhaustion and horror, it is Councillor Comín. That's why we did the balance of a year's term, so let's see what we've devoted our energies to for a year: to completing what we explained that day. Maybe they've been staring at it a little... - it's all right, it was the principle, we were all a little..., huh? , the emotion of the principle – there was a little fixed on what we said there; maybe they were not aware of the importance or the risks of the decisions we announced in that appearance, but we did not do anything else. When I spoke of 85_per_cent and then I made it clear that I made it out of all will of triumphalism... – all, all will of triumphalism – vehemence I understand that it has nothing to do with being a sign of triumphalism; vehemence is sometimes almost a question of character. I said that I spent more than an hour, out of the hope of the chairman of the Health Commission, to make the inquiry, and in the last sentence, in the last sentence, I said: "If we had to make an arithmetic calculation of the completion of the commitments, in the measure that we are talking about forty commitments, and in the measure that of the forty commitments so much has been fulfilled, so many have been partially completed, so many will have completed in the following mandate, the arithmetic calculation would say, in a very objective circle, that we have completed an 85_per_cent of the commitments, and of the divisions we have made a 70_per_cent of the legislature, if the count per diviso, that was the amount that we have to the beginning of the mandate. It was an almost arithmetical finding: we did not make 70_per_cent and 85_per_cent of those forty commitments we announced more than a year ago. It's here. This was not a triumphalist, it was an arithmetical consideration that complemented an exhibition of more than an hour. Delete it. It wasn't my conclusion, it wasn't my headline; it was one more sentence at the time of making the balance. But he'll agree with me that the rulers have the obligation to hold back. If I didn't come, you'd tell me I don't hold accounts. If I win and hold accounts, you tell me I'm triumphing because of the things I've committed to doing 85_per_cent are already girls. I put on the side of the engagements, I exposed the facts, I didn't make anything up, I exposed the facts. Now, those facts that we've done over a year, which is to complement what we've announced on the 11th generation, fix the problems of the Catalonian health system? No, no. Do they fix them all at once? No, no, Now, do they begin to lay the solutions in case the solutions are structural? Yes, we understand that yes, these plans lay the groundwork for the fund solutions. And I very much agree with you that in this task as you have said, and I agree, as hard as magnificent, and, therefore, it is hard and a privilege at the same time, because a few things are more beautiful than working for the right to salvation of people, long and short term. And that's why both emergencies and primary as well as waiting lists, while the plans didn't come we acted with great intensity. For example, the PIUC – I ended up – of the year 16 we have allocated 16_million more, 17_million more than the previous year; the request believed in a 3_per_cent, and we increased the assumption in a 6_per_cent. For this reason in the first year the assumption of the 17th year increases by 27_millions respect the assumption of the 15th year. And the 22 million more mental health that went to primary school. And let's add the 57 millionth of the Pla de scoc of hope lists that will be managed from the primary. Therefore, of course we are taking measures: the efficiency measures in the lists of waits that I have explained before. Of course we're doing in the short term all that's in our abyss, basically in presuppositional terms. Both emergencies as well as the best in terms of resources are already making them at these times. What I am celebrating is that we are committed to the same objective and that we can work on rapeseed rape, government and opposition, to deploy these structural plans so important that we have ahead of us and that they demand the work of everyone, also of parliamentary groups and of the sector, to make them come true. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.337.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on depopulation in rural areas]] [[300-00144/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on depopulation in rural areas, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it, has the word Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.338.0	Thank you, President. To thank him, in the first place, that after such lengthy votes he is here. He will advise, advise, deputies, deputies, members of the Department of Agriculture accompanying us, from the Socialist Group we present this inquiry to the Government on depopulation and the difficulties of economic and social development in the rural areas of Catalonia. We did it after analyzing data – and that's what we're presenting here and what we're coming to reflect on – all the data we've found, some of them contradictory, but all of them do contribute: from the Idescat, the INE, the Fundació del Món Rural – with their own question, their atles –, the Association of Micropopulations, the same Generality of Catalonia, the Association of Muntanya Municipalities, the Spanish Federation of Municipalities, the committee that created for this topic in the Senate or the same European Union, among others. In fact, the new Europe 2020 strategy has been set, which defines territorial cohesion as one of the foundational pillars to be concerned and added to economic cohesion... – which has also given us some curses, building Europe based on economic cohesion – and social cohesion is added. The fracture is a reality in Europe, in Spain ; in Catalonia the territorial fracture between urban and rural areas does not stop growing and it is a reality. And the European Union also publishes, in this 2020 strategy, the Green Paper on territorial cohesion as one of the main objectives; making territorial diversity an act, a point and a generation, precisely, a source of wealth. We have to make it between all of us – no one escapes – a sustainable and balanced growth. We need to deal with the negative effects of high concentration or massification, improve communication or connectivity across all territories, and improve cooperation between the rural and urban worlds, which we do not do very well. In Catalonia, the data speak for themselves, and surely they have felt them: 60 percent of the towns of less than a thousand inhabitants have lost people since 2010; 60 percent of the towns have lost people. Therefore, it is a very worrying fact that it requires attention, that it requires government action in a coordinated way to try to deal with these effects. The depopulation, and all the adverse effects it causes, especially affects the Lands of the Hebrews, affects the Pyrenees, affects the interior Catalonia, the interior comarques. Of the forty-two counties, twenty-nine have lost their population since 2010. The most affected? Terra Alta, Alta Ribagorça, with a depopulation of more than 9_per_cent; the Pallars will rise, with an 8,6_per_cent; the Priorat, a 7,5; the Ribera d'Ebre, the Montsià, the Garrigues, the Berguedà, the Bages, the Alt Urgell, over 6_per_cent in the population loss; the Barberà Conca, the Ripollès, over 5_per_cent in the population loss since 2010. Therefore, it affects in a very unequal way, but it is true that it affects above all the interior coffers, because the population movement is above all towards the coast, except for the Ebre. The 80_per_cent of the population is concentrated in the 20_per_cent of the territory, and this polarization is not to be increased. The people and the rich are also polarizing, with the result, obviously, aging and falling by birth that condemns any territory, huh? That's exactly what it could be like to be ready. The per capita income, of course, in most rural areas is lower than the average income in Catalonia. We don't say it, Idescat says it: most rural areas have a per capita income lower than the middle. The Tax Agency submitted a report on the income statements of the twenty poorest municipalities in Catalonia, also the richest, and we see that there is a difference of more than 300_percent between some municipalities in Catalonia that have the median income of 48,000 euros a year– 48,000 euros– with those that have it lower, that have it of 14,900 euros per year: 14,000 to 48,000, and this does not stop growing. Therefore, what we must try to do is to stop these differences, to worry about trying to reduce them. The territorial fracture is a reality, or as I read in a media outlet of Girona, that said: "The territorial cohesion at these moments has become a chimera. In addition, our partner Alicia Romero also presented private inversion data. We see as the private investment, 80_percent of the 2015 private investment focused on the metropolitan area. Therefore, we don't just have to look at how we manage public investment, but we also have a problem and we have to attract the territory to try to make private investment go away. And so is public investment. We see these comarques that we say, above all, that are the most harmed, have– Lands of the Hebrews, Camp of Tarragona, Pirinius and Aran – retail public investment of the Generalitat of 2010 above 70_per_cent; comarques of Lleida, 86_per_cent; central comarques, 79_per_cent. Therefore, it is impossible to build a competitive territory that can attract private investment, that fixed people to the territory without a public-private investment that guarantees equal opportunities. And also, of course, what we have said many times: how we re-enter certain public services, how we plant certain public services that do not affect the most essential and most important services that affect the citizens more directly. We have already said that as much as you serve and staff that affect hospitals, the health region of Pirinaeus came out that we had a 24_per_cent of doctors at CAP since 2010, Lleida had a 13, the Ebre had a 9_per_cent. Therefore, the changes to the EMS that have not liked and other public service replantations that I think have occurred more with economic criteria than not territorial, than with that positive discrimination that we have sometimes defended. Laws and standards, taxes and taxes that sometimes don't help this dynamism. We have a set of standards for large capitals, for large democratic and economic policies, and not precisely to compensate for territorial imbalances. The negative effects are not in the territory, they are in Catalonia, and even Barcelona will obviously suffer if the rest of the territory is not competitive. The abandonment of villages, which involves abandonment of land, which involves or may lead to environmental problems due to saturation, and also, obviously, there are places that have contamination problems. And this is going to increase if we go massively to the territories. Men's competitiveness in food production is clearly an aspect that can affect all of us. The energy sources we consume among all, above all, are produced outside the metropolitan area. The loss of peoples is lost in culture, is lost in identity and traditions and, as we have said, the massification of metropolitan areas does not benefit anyone. Depopulation or impoverishment in rural areas affects Catalonia, the conjunct of the State and also affects Europe; therefore, it will be necessary to add efforts, coordinate efforts, take advantage of public policies that are pushing themselves to try to reverse this situation. After that I will also talk about the question of the Fundació Món Rural, which was already more or less in this line, but what we believe from the Socialist Group, more than talking about agricultural policies, which are one part, above all it is that we need policies, redefine strategies, see what is done around us, see what synergies we can take advantage of, as are better coordinated European foundations, what is done from the Government of the State, what we can do, and here we have the sole responsibility to lead a response in this sense. Should we or should we not call for a tax reform to encourage investment in rural areas? Is there a positive discrimination in rural areas or not? Is it or is it not a law of local heritage that precisely facilitates a good financing for the administrations to the joints that are obviously at risk of depopulation? We need to boost rural tourism, which has gone down the most with respect to other segments of tourism since the beginning of the crisis. How do we encourage entrepreneurship and enterprise in the most unpopulated areas? Therefore, we have many and many challenges, we must face them, and we cannot face them alone with the Agriculture Council, we cannot face them with the Government of the Generality, alone, which also, but, obviously, we must do so in a coordinated and global way. In summary, counsel, we ask, first of all, to highlight a problem we have on the table. We believe that territorial cohesion must be guaranteed, that democratic imbalances and wealth must be fairly redistributed, and that the greater these differences, the more they will affect all of us. In order to avoid it, we believe that reliable data, a good observer of what is happening, a coordinated strategy, as we say, to see what public investment in infrastructure is essential and necessary. See, as we say, what fiscal measures of public services or economic dynamism we have to apply. Finally, counsel: many people are missing; not all, the country is very diverse, but many people are missing. Some people, even more than we want, are becoming impoverished, and a lot of people can't wait. Therefore, we believe that the competitiveness of Barcelona, the competitiveness of the large metropolitan areas will also depend on the prosperity and the good will of the rest of the territory, and above all on the rural people. Thank you, Counsellor, President, Members, Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.339.0	Thank you, Mr. Ordeig. Next, Ms. Meritxell Serret, Agriculture Advisor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.340.0	Thank you very much, President. Congressman, the truth is he appreciates being able to make an inquiry... the ones we're coming, right? And that we are fond of what the rural world is, we always appreciate having a space and a few moments to debate this reality that often feels misunderstood, don't we? And we said it with a lot of tractors that the agricultural sector did. Therefore, the inquiry is greatly appreciated. I think you mentioned a series of statistics, and I think they correspond to us all thinking a lot about what you want, huh? It's Catalonia. We have a Catalonia that, whether we say it or not, is drawn with some differences that make this..., I wouldn't want to say fracture, but you don't want this difference between urban and rural visions. We have to say that in Catalonia 90_percent of our territory is rural– 90_percent of the territory is rural–, we have said many times, 60_percent is covered with forests, the remaining 30_percent is agricultural and the urban plots represent 30_percent. But next to this 90 percent rural territory, we see that more than 80 percent of the population, we could also say 90 percent of the population, it's urban. And this urban population, mostly, also conditions good part of the culture of our country. Every time there is more urban culture, every time there are more generations than they have no idea what rural environment is, what is the work of the primary sector, the production of food, agriculture, industry, forestry or fishing; therefore, they live alienated from this reality. And we also have, as you have said, a very urban economy, which is very much based on those sectors that are more suited to this urban population, and more so with a dynamic and a perspective that is also stretched from those cycles that rurality imposes, which are a few cycles of return from the benefits of longer activities. Just like the forestry sector, where returns can trigate forty to thirty years, and also, at the same time, greater margins of benefit, but we always talk about short margins of benefit, and a much more encouraging rhythm than we are accustomed to at the level of benefits and financial policies. Therefore, we have a very rural territory but a very urban population. And the great challenge that we have with the country is how we call it and how we get the policies that we draw from Catalonia in its global perspective have this rural perspective. As you know, there is a very close reality, which is that of the municipalities. The municipalities, which is this first public administration slag, which are 948 to all of Catalonia – 948 to all of Catalonia –, of these 948, 63_per_cent have fewer than two_ thousand inhabitants. In fact, the settlement of this thousand inhabitants is already a very large percentage of municipalities and all these municipalities of less than a thousand inhabitants manage or have, take more than 50_percent of the territory of Catalonia and assume only 2.6_percent of the population. Therefore, this duality that implies little people managing and taking responsibility for a very important percentage of our territory is what we must be able to go about incorporating each time more into the perspectives of our policies. As you know, we have spent a few years, from 2008 to 2015, which coincides with the economic crisis, of returning to the level of population in rural areas. It is also worth saying that, in some ways, it is equivalent to this regression to which the population increased in rural areas between 2001 and 2008 and, in fact, you mentioned them, there are some thirteen regions that have a natural zero growth, that is, they do not increase, although there may be migrations, but what is natural growth does not increase. And there are also six communities that have a 20 per cent population of more than eighty-five years, that is to say, an overcrowded one, which is what we have always said to rural areas: the exodus, this exhaustion, basically also affects the quality of life as there are every time older people and the young people emigrate. Therefore, we are with structural dynamics, they do not come from now, they do not come from five years or two years ago, but they come from a lot more there and they also require policies, such as good, structural and much more transversal, much more interrelated, but above all they are able to incorporate this necessary rural perspective. From here on, some reflections of how these policies should be, that connect with territorial cohesion, social cohesion, economic cohesion, if you want environmental cohesion, are to say, as we do, this rurality and this urbanity. It is clear that policies towards the rurality of our country and to curb this depopulation must be able to generate opportunities; they must be able to generate the vision that man..., that young people can bring forward a professional and life project in rural areas. Therefore, we must promote opportunities through the primary sector. We have always said: the primary sector, agriculture, industry, forestry, food production generates opportunities and acts and manages this 90_percent of the rural territory of Catalonia. Therefore, it is through the primary sector that we must be able to generate socio-economic dynamism and environmental sustainability. We have a great diversity of ecosystems in Catalonia. This means that in this 90_percent of territories we can do many things, we have many opportunities to generate wealth, to make products of high differentiation and quality. It is an activity, that of the primary sector, that pulls the population to the territory, is not displacement. It is an opportunity, that of the primary sector, to multiply the rich also in the territory through its ability to diversify the values. The primary sector generates a whole series of material and immaterial assets, from landscape to gastronomic culture. And that's a potential in time to diversify wealth. Obviously, we've said it, haven't we? ditel primary sector produces above all food. It is basic for any society and for any community to have this food sovereignty, and therefore it is one of the central axes from which we must be able to build these policies to stop depopulation in rural areas. But obviously not only; it must also be through these basic services in education, health or water; water accessibility, which is also one of the great challenges we have with the country in good parts of the territory, and through services that are not so basic, but also that they are essential, as can be the care of people – we are saying that we have a reality of over-enveloping in many rural areas – and opportunities also in activities that may be of light or tourism, because, we have said, we have a capacity to attract and diversify wealth. In any case, any policy aimed at promoting rural development and, therefore, curbing this depopulation must have people as its central focus, above all people. Why? Because, as you wish, we're in some areas where there's little population density. Therefore, the criteria and this rural perspective must focus above all on people; and other criteria – you said – the economist or others, yes they are important, but they cannot be the only one, nor the main one. What are we doing, from the government? From the government and, above all, from the agricultural department, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, which we also have Forest and Rural Development, we are trying to push these structural policies, these cross-cutting policies to the maximum, and that each time more incorporate that rural perspective. You mentioned the Rural Mon Foundation. Sense of doubt is one of those things that was generated more than two years ago around... isn't it? , and under the orbit of the Department of Agriculture to foster this cross-cutting view of what rural development is, to foster this ability to generate opportunities through policies that are cross-cutting and involve different actors and departments. In this sense, I insist, these policies and this visit must go, as you wish, to give the maximum support to the rural municipalities. They have low population but many hectares to manage and a high dispersion at times of the nuclei and population, so here all the work with the Association of Micropopulations and other municipalist entities are important. We're driving mountain law; we're driving land space law, which is very important for this management activity that's done in the territory, where it's not urban and until now it's like a free space, so, no, it's not a free space, it's a productive space, it's an agricultural space, through all the infrastructure, and it's going on, following new information and communication technologies, whether it's water or energy, that's the great challenge and opportunity of the future also for rural territory. All the policies that we apply to the primary sector, from the PDR but beyond: we have to make policies that generate returns from production. All the diversification policies, the Leaders, the Atheneus Cooperatius Network that are driven by Treball, but above all – above all – the policies that are going to promote generational replenishment; generational replenishment that is that young and, above all, also women must be the great engine of change, and are indispensable for rural development and to curb depopulation. As I said to the principle: we have the capacity to carry out professional and life projects in rural areas. And, above all, in this cross-sectional view, for these tools, as you know, we need resources. We sometimes need skills that we don't have, and that's why we're also developing a whole country project to promote policies that stop rural depopulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.341.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.342.0	Thank you, President. He'll advise, well, we're grateful to begin his intervention. I think we agree on a lot of things, but beyond some coincidences, I think the important thing is to open the eyes and see that the data tells us we have a problem. We have a problem, surely, first or second..., since 2010 or since 2009, for the economic crisis; a problem, obviously, of some exogenous factors that do not depend so much on us, that things changed very quickly. But it's just that I think we're now in another derivative, joining the crisis, with a recovery at different speeds. So as much as we complain about Europe, about the different speeds, I think we have to watch because this also happens, I can go to our home from the territorial point of view; to our home and to other territories. Therefore, I believe that here we must see, above all, first of all, find the mechanisms among all that allow us to know the source of the question. And this is where he said: "We will propose it. We need..., perhaps, surely, through the Fundació Món Rural, to follow the one leading an observer or the databases necessary to analyze, if so, what is going on, with those reliable indicators that we can all evaluate, all folds, to see if things are working or not working. The survey of the Fundació Món Rural, which asks people in rural areas, said: "What is it that concerns them the most or what do you think makes it harder for people to stay in town? And one of the things, for example... – for example – say: accessibility to the system of salvation. If there is any problem, or the hospital was very far away or the CAP, so..., it doesn't see many days; this one did situate it as one of the main problems of the rural world. Therefore, we must pay special attention to him. It will not be the same as capitals – we are not asking for it – but an important attention; like rural school; like the network of reelers we have; like communications, which are the great leap and the great difference respect to previous years, which is that these technologies of information, communication, mobile phone coverage, but also internet, allow us to lie down at any point on the planet, and obviously from Catalonia, therefore, from any village. Therefore, I believe that it is with all the tools that we have in the abst, we have to agree and we have to see to which level and to what extent we can get them, to try, therefore, to guarantee the progress; the progress of the majority of citizens of this country. They also say that you help them, and all the help we have in public, so they can refocus, they can give differently and they can be more effective than we give them. So, that's some of the questions. So we don't ask the government to do everything, but we ask the government to lead and give the government that it can do better. What you're doing alone, but obviously you're accompanying it, because a lot of resources come from outside. We won't make a move – they learn the lesson two weeks ago – very long, because here obviously we can talk about all CAPs of all rural people and all the roads and from there; we won't. We'll try to make a young man, obviously he's not too short, but he's a model. Seeing from which we have all the folds, beyond the great transformation we can make in 2017 and all the things we need to go through, but listen, like this problem that we don't have in four days, I think it's important that we all convince each other of what we have, of information, of actions and strategies, in this sense, so that we can move forward. And they would go above all along the lines of the Green Paper on Strategy in Europe; of creating a socio-economic observer; of establishing a debate space – which, here, the government that tells us..., does not need to be parliamentary – with all the agents involved, the public institutions involved, to talk about depopulation. Talk to us, have information, listen to everyone. And we'll ask..., here to the government we'll ask that I create a working group – there, to be a quick thing – that you analyze, assessors and propose measures directly to the Presidency, because it's the way to give the feeling that it is..., like it depends on all departments..., of which are the measures that will be driven in the years to come. Measures, as I said, fiscal and financial, that some people don't depend on here, we'll have to ask them there, right now we'll have to ask them there, huh? ; therefore, do it. And some measures obviously to be negotiated in Brussels. Also important is everything we said: the mobile phone and internet coverage map cannot be! We have a lack of basic infrastructure of reelers is obvious – it is obvious – but also mobile phone coverage and in some places even fixed phone coverage. I mean, of course, it's that then we can't talk about productivity or competitiveness of any territory, of any company, if we don't have the minimums of the minimums. And one last... – thirteen_seconds remain –, important: the highest priority for equality policies. He said it, I say it and I say it: without women and without policies of equality that help all the aspects in which women are involved there will be no fixation of citizenship on the territory. It's impossible. And that's what all the manuals say, and that's what the same European Union says. Therefore, politics of gifts, importantism; politics of equality, to fix the people to the territory. And, finally, end, listen: cooperate and communicate because we all made better progress. An example we had, with its shortcomings, in the area of the Olympic Games of Barcelona-Pirineus. It was an example that, taking advantage of the actions and infrastructures that we have in the Pyrenees, Barcelona helped that a territory that is passing it very badly is able to strengthen, can progress and can be known from the world. Thank you, President, Counsellor, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.343.0	Thank you, Mr. Ordeig. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.344.0	Thank you, President. Member, I thank him for his reflections, above all the observer's proposal. First, because I obviously have a special esteem for the Fundació del Món Rural, but more so, because it was a lot in line with the same work plan that we have with the Fundació del Món Rural. As you know, the Rural Land Foundation has the New Rural Atlas; we haven't re-edited with the data update this past year. And the idea is to establish a map of indicators that allows us to make a whole observer and follow-up of how rural areas evolve, and, therefore, what is the reality to be able to do this follow-up that you ask for. Therefore, welcome the proposal. We are working and willing to share and get rid of as many of these observers as possible. We're talking about the perception survey. The question of perception..., a precision: it is not only that the people of the rural world are questioned, it is also that the people of the urban world, therefore, it is a tool that allows us also to calibrate as it evolves. There are indications that they are positive and others, obviously, that they indicate the shortcomings, but they are perceptive; one thing is perception, the other is reality, and therefore, we will not go into these debates right now. But it is true that there are indicators that make us believe that every time more people are aware of the positive values, also for the quality of life in urban areas, which means having a living rural environment. And this living rural environment passes, therefore, what we say before, through a strong primary sector and through policies that help generate opportunities. We're talking about the rural school. Rural school, as you know, is a jewel that makes a municipality lose a school, right? , loses the ability to project the future, and on the contrary, when you open the school, it means that it is revitalized. The rural schools we have to pamper, we have to empower them. We also have a whole project through the Fundació del Món Rural to boost rural schools, we are driving Erasmus with other countries to promote even better the working conditions of rural school teachers and their knowledge and skills. And we're clear..., we're deity of mobility and ICT. Obviously, if anything in this model is needed in these cross-cutting policies to promote rural development, it is to have the capacity to adapt to future challenges. We have said so many times: the future challenges for rural areas are highly conditioned by climate change, they are highly conditioned by the opportunities that the knowledge society generates for us as well. Therefore, incorporate the knowledge society into the broad sense, obviously with new infrastructures and new technologies, but also in the design of data; to use the data as much as possible for, treating them well, promoting economic activity and dynamism and the better in serving people in the rural world through the knowledge society, that is what we need to do. And it's obvious that it won't be a department or an administration alone, but here we have to conxorx and what we say: the ability, above all, to work together with the municipalities is essential in this sense. And finally, a little, generic reflections. We say, the need – and it also came out of the perception survey – that there are more adapted aids; totally agree. Many times – and we give it to the principle – some lines, some policies..., we need those powers or those powers to be able to pull them forward. Obviously, as long as we work together and coordinate, we will do so, but we will not give up on demanding as much as possible the ability to manage in the most efficient way the maximum amount of resources that we can dispose of. And, therefore, I insist, we will continue with a country project, but above all on a solid basis. We are clear that we need concrete, specific and tailor-made agricultural policies to the reality and specificity of our territory, we need regionalisation of CAP aid, we need to manage resources and adapt them to our sectors and our communities in order to tackle as best as possible all these social and environmental and economic challenges that we have. And we also need other tools, like, for example, you're talking about the ability to influence taxation, not that I remember here what's going on with the rustic IBI. We need and want to be able to manage ourselves as taxes are to be with which we record the country's activities and infrastructures or buildings. The other measures that I had pointed out, apart from this, and very important, all that you have to see with renewable energies. We are able and want to legislate and have the maximum of skills to boost renewable energies in our country; the world of territories and rural is the basic substrate of these renewable energies and it is the future for our economies, for our environmental sustainability and for the welfare of people. In short, thanks for being able to make this question today and which in the House, as we say, we trust to be able to link strategies of a future that are solid and viable for our country, in order to favor above all people and young people in our rural territories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-22-3202.345.0	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you very much, all of you. They suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock.
