ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. [[Question to the Government on the protection of children and adolescents]] [[300-00173/11]] The new item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on the protection of children and adolescents, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, Ms. Laura Vílchez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone; good morning, counselor. Today we ask you at your request: in the past plenary, if you remember, you asked the spokesman of my parliamentary group for more proposals. Well, then, here we are again. I think it is appropriate, therefore, a preview that refreshes your memory, or inform you, if you do not have that information, that I look, because you have been able to pass on the seventy resolutions addressed exclusively to your department; seventy, not to mention what has been conveyed via Teaching or via Salut, where we have also sent proposals that affect children. If seventy motions for resolutions have been submitted to him, he is also likely to have missed the four proposals for legislation for children that we have registered in this legislature. Motions, motions on many subjects related, also, to childhood – which are not fulfilled, by the way – I'm going to assume that he does know them, more than anything because he had to be questioned before, with which, either they have a serious communication problem, or he lacked the truth. If you answer with the first option, perhaps we will ask for an acknowledgement of receipt of our initiatives. But if the truth was missing, I would appreciate it to rectify and recognize the work that has been done since the opposition, because that work is the creator, many times, of many of the policies that you boast of, then, in conferences and days, various days. But said this, Counselor, we are not going to stay there, and if you want more, then more you will have. You, as a representative of the Government in the field of children, have, indeed, a priority democratic mandate to serve; an urgent mandate to which you should devote a great deal of energy and effort not to disappoint this Parliament or the citizenry; a mandate which, at the same time, would have facilitated a great deal of work for you, if you had carried it out. I am referring, of course, to the mandate to implement Law 14/2010, to develop the Law on Rights and Opportunities in Children and Adolescents. You must ensure that it develops in its entirety, with the greatest agility possible and ensure that it is fully complied with, as well as equipping it economically. A democratic mandate that, yes, was endorsed by all the groups in this chamber. For this task, as I have just shown, we have worked over the past year and a half, from the opposition – all groups – to contribute and provide constructively all the lines of work that we have seen as timely and urgent for their Government to function in the field of children: we have contributed from the promotion of foster families, to demand the documentation that the Administration must process to unaccompanied minors when they arrive in our territory; to the fight against school harassment, sexual abuse; we have asked for a child allowance in charge, or for coverage of all children in need of palliative care. I know if I had, counsel, undoing duties, and he asks us even more. You, for all those initiatives, should know that, even if there are people who say otherwise, the enemy is not us, the enemy of childhood is not orange: the enemy of childhood is a monster of many faces to fight against, and the law of childhood intended it. The Children's Act was and is ambitious and intended to address, from all possible fronts, comprehensive care and protection of Catalan children and adolescents in an ambitious manner. I know how easy it is, counselor. Only with that, only with law enforcement would we have gained a lot, and then, of course, what is approved in this Parliament, that what is trying to polish these kinds of proposals. The preamble to this law calls for us to ensure welfare from two points of view: material and psychological well-being, and it seems very logical, dealing with a law for the rights and opportunities of children. Well, seven years after your approval, this is still not guaranteed. The Directorate-General for Child and Adolescent Care, which should be responsible for the protection and welfare of all Catalan children, has been reduced only to the management of cases of high risk or helplessness. Even so, the DGAIA, totally unlucky, is unable today to give a serious and personalized itinerary to these children, the most vulnerable collective in our society. We are talking about children who, for whatever reasons, have been removed from their families with the supposed intention of providing them with protection. I suppose what will answer me and I tell you that this speech no longer convinces either the opposition groups, the unions, the professional colleges, the educators, the families, or the Greuges Synod. So maybe you should start thinking something's not doing right, maybe you should do self-criticism. But, going to what we really care about: do you have a plan, counselor? Do you have a well-thought-out strategy that can reverse the unsustainable current situation in Catalonia's protection system? Frankly, I find it hard to believe – but it is hard for anyone to believe – that, with the budget they have, with the time they have been ruling, with the numbers we have, with the sector's warnings, their child protection work cannot be better done. And honestly, I find it hard to understand – and it would also cost anyone – that they are only able to react to the headline: to every bad headline, a new announcement from the department. We do not really believe that childhood deserves this improvised policy. We are far from a cross-cutting child policy, which guarantees rights, guarantees equal opportunities and focuses, above all, on the best interests of the child; very far away, she advises. What are you doing? They take the longest path and, on top of it, they walk with calm: pacts, plans, integral programs, framework programs, protocols. But one thing is that it can be difficult – it can be difficult – to recognize publicly that no response is known, and another is that the data paralyzes them and does not immediately correct the direction of this general direction, which does not manage, that manages a protection system that does not protect. They have to understand what they have in their hands: they are relationships, they are bonds, they are feelings, they are people, counselor. Understand that you have lives in your hands, fragile lives, and you, for the time being, are dealing with announced policies. She also understands that we are not going to allow her: we are going to demand changes, quality models, empathy. What is your strategy, Counselor? How will they address the short, medium, long - term protection system? What is behind every announcement, or every statement of intent that has been telling us lately? We want the details, we want the details. You should know that children are absolutely cross-cutting in terms of government action, the Children's Act obliges them to work in this line. For example, how often do you meet with the Councillor of Salut? How does Councillor Comin lead the Pla of Mental Salvation for All? Do you have any specific plans for foster children? How often do you meet with the teaching counselor, counselor? Do you have a care plan for children with special educational needs? I suppose you know the educational difficulties, too, of the children you have the guardianship of.How is the interdepartmental commission that this Parliament forced to create to fight sexual abuse? We know he meets once, twice a year, I think. Will it require results? Are you going to give this commission a little vidilla? In short, counsel, explain to us your road map, the road map so that families can trust you; so that the children you have guardianship can trust you; so that all children and adolescents can trust you, even if they do not vote. Explain to us, counselor, in detail, what plans you have for all of them. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.3.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vílchez. Reply to Mrs. Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.4.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. You said, let's talk about childhood again, and I hope this time it's different from other times. You yourself have asked me four oral questions and two questions. So, we haven't talked about childhood, and the planning of what we want to do, and as I do, I think we've expanded it. First of all, tell him that I don't need the children to trust me, I need the system to work and, above all, to trust those professionals who are at his side and are the ones who carry them and make them the itinerary so that they can have a decent adult life. I wanted to be here, today, and talk about childhood thinking that what we are here is having a..., the will, go, a closer look at our model of care and protection of the most vulnerable citizens at these times, and with the will to find solutions, solutions and shared ideas to continue improving the system. I do not need to be told that we have made proposals, for example, child benefit, which certainly did not win the vote; therefore, it was a proposal that you made, and you know that we have still paid the 2010 benefit this year, and that it was, for example, the first priority that we were going to put forward as a government and the first one that was paid: the debt to families for child protection benefit, therefore, a benefit. You're talking about self-criticism. Always, I'd just miss it, and here we are. And we have explained some of a principle that we do not speak only of child protection: from DGAIA the idea is much broader. We have explained it, and we have staged it with some very simple words, with the five sides – we have explained it –: prevention, participation, provision of funds, protection. So, listen, I think we can't just talk about DGAIA as protection, but in general. The protection model. Now, by way of government, I can tell you that a few months ago we have a tool that you can't afford to keep the past year, and that's what helps to develop and guarantee the children more right: to have a law of assumptions that means they can make all the changes. And we made the effort like the government, and we said from the beginning, that our priority was social issues, and that we have it as one of the most. Therefore, we have increased the childhood requirement and here we allocate 8,4_millions for nine places in care centres; 6,5_millions more in childhood and adolescence care teams, which are already on the march and, therefore, everything that EAIAs represent in prevention, distributed throughout the territory: larger areas, separate groups because they are closer to children; 3,5_millions for economic benefits for the gathering of children at social risk. This week, precisely, we're making the week of the mating. We've detected who are the infants from zero to six years, from where they are territorially, that, therefore, it would be easier to find them a foster family. After having made a strong campaign to gather last year, this year we prioritized it in eight municipalities in Catalonia and, precisely, we are signing agree: we signed a deal last year with the Badalona Assembly because in giving diffusion to all families and this week we are, many people, in Badalona, giving information for the gathering. Moreover, the topic of scholarships and young people for summer, of vulnerable families, for education activities in reading: it will probably see the diffusion that in fact and what we are saying, therefore, an increase in the amount of money. And a new topic that... as you know, the issue of the SOAF, which had been the family guidance services: an increase, also to the whole territory, for us to serve attention to these families and also attention to all problems. With what? We did... first of all, with these resources what we have done is to establish common strategies between DGAIA, the Catalan Institute of Adoption and the Directorate-General for Families, which you did not mention, but you know that it is very integrated so as to act further beyond the social protection system, because we consider that families are the first resort for all infants and, therefore, from here is how we designed all the new ones that were to be. In relation to children's rights, we continue to deploy the Law of Rights and Opportunities in Childhood and Adolescence and the Children's Covenant. You say it was over; I don't know what it looked like, but what I can tell you is that we've been working all year. We have made the decree of the system of protection for childhood and adolescence, the decree of transition to adult life, the decree of the Observers of the Rights of Childhood, the plan of comprehensive care for childhood 2015-2018. You can say, "It's a plan, but since we don't have the things clarified, we don't solve anything when there's a problem. Therefore, we must keep our eyes full, constructive, to know where we are going. And finally, the annual action plan for this 2017 is already on track. For what it does to detection and protection of abuse, we are driving and improving detection and protection mechanisms in front of abuse by expanding the specialized service to the underage and victims of sexual abuse and creating the research center on child abuse, which is already on the way. For what it does to territorial participation, because, as I said, the look is wide, so we continue to drive the councils of territorial participation of childhood and adolescence. Finally, as I said to the principle, we are reinforcing and driving all these summer measures for children and young people in a vulnerable situation, and we will probably teach it with the campaign. Plus, I was talking about Parliament motions. So, look, in the parliamentary mandate, in motion 93, the last one we had, was put in the way, you know, the mixed government-parliament working group on the model of child protection, where it began to debate the strategy to follow in child protection policies. Obviously, different groups have different priorities – read the record, or you can read it yourself. You were there and, therefore, you know very well that we meant that we continued. For us, we don't have to have anything to do with it, on the other hand: what we want is, as I said, this wide-ranging look, and what we want is that among all of us we can improve protection. He asked me... "Every headline, a new impact. I think you're wrong. Since last year, we've been trying to explain exactly what changes we'd be making, which way we put the protection system out. At these times we have fifty-four EAIAs, which are at the centre of accomplimentation. We explained that at the reception center, we wanted the youngest infants to be there for a little while, and that's what we're looking for to open the most CRAEs with the smallest places and CRAEs, so to link them to the units of cohabitation. Improve children's homes: at this time, more places. And more attention resources every day. You also said: "The DGAIA manages protection. I explain it now clearly: DGAIA does not manage protection, DGAIA does everything, and that is why this interrelationship with the Catalan Institute of Reception and Adoption and also with childhood. And I wonder how many times I've found myself there. Miri, with the Counsellor We are carrying the Mental Health Plate, not just for childhood, but for all people, together. So, it's not that we find ourselves determined one day, but constantly... yesterday we had a meeting. We're moving forward so personally, the two counselors, like the whole department. And with Teaching, exactly the same. You know that with Education you work for an inclusive platform, where we also participate as the department. And precisely yesterday late – as we are in Parliament, let's take advantage of the hours we don't have to be here – we'll meet with the councilwoman, too, to talk about all the issues that exist. Therefore, the relationship with all departments is maximum. Childhood: a full and, above all, interdepartmental look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.5.0	Thank you very much, Consellera Bassa. It has the word Mrs. Vílchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.6.0	Thank you, President. Well, counselor... I'm finally gonna think I'm gonna need the receipt charges, huh? Because this that you comment on our proposed law for a dependent child benefit is not any motion or PR, it is a proposed law that has been passed and is in submission, and that is in progress, the submission. Well, you've told me what I expected. You say we have to plan, but it's been a year and a half, counselor, with the same situation: we're going to get worse. It's just that these plans have to start implementing the already; we can't keep going to conferences, to Palau Macaya and so on, and..., let's all go, but we have to start executing things. You are talking about the new draft decree, which is a draft decree, which you say 'the decree on childhood and adolescence'. Well, that seems good to us; but if, in fact, it is the first motion for a resolution that I myself..., that Citizens presented to the Committee on Children: it was precisely to demand this from you, because this is nothing but a regulatory development of the law on children. Seven years after you approved yourself? Well, okay, well, it's not bad that we have a draft on one side. You know there's a lot to do in this regard, but, well... but, thank you. He says all these plans explain them widely, but if you talk to people in the sector, no one knows the details – no one. The subject of the new centres, of the five peas it always says. As for this shock plan, we want to know the details, we want to know the timetable and we want, above all, not to be fooled. Because it's ugly that you tell us that you're going to open twenty-three new centers and that what you're doing, what you're doing, is dividing the centers that are already in operation, saturated by that, with partitions. It's ugly and that's cheating – that's cheating – counselor. What was asked here were more places of reduced centers, but we didn't want trouble, we wanted homes for those children – we wanted homes. And they've had the first chance to prove to me that they didn't go by lighthouse, and, a month ago, the first, on the front: in the City Hall of Girona, Mr. Ricard Calvo, director of..., well, councilman of that town hall, defends in solitary a model different to that you explain here, and he himself explains in days aimed at protection: divide a center in three.What do they not communicate? No one believes it – no one believes it – neither educators nor the syndic – no one believes it. We don't believe it. You say: "It is that you would have to go there. We have gone there– we have gone there–; we have been there and we have seen it with our own eyes and we agree, therefore, with what everyone says to him: that was not what was intended. The serious thing about this subject is that Mr. Ricard Calvo is not just any councillor of Esquerra, he is the general director of Child and Adolescent Care, he is the director of DGAIA. Finally, Commissioner, I think that this should give us some explanation rather than the five-foot programme. Subject of mental health, which tells me that you work with Mr. Comín. Can't we really be doing things now, Counselor? Can't you do better? Are they really not able to coordinate departments responsibly and rigorously, and start working now? , that this is the crux of the question, of many of the problems that childhood has. They probably can't because they don't have real data, because the data they work with..., as Mr. Ricard Calvo acknowledged at a conference, they work with data that are from graduate or doctoral studies, when they have a database that maybe with a better design you have to tell them, you can give them the picture of the current situation of protected children. Falling families. I thank you for the effort; on them you dealt in the first motion we tabled on childhood in this Parliament. We therefore believe that all children in need have the right to access this remedy. So, it's been a while now with this campaign, what results are they having? In addition to the requests, how many are materializing? What predictions do they work with? And you haven't told me anything about UCAE, Counselor. More professional families for more complicated profiles. What do you have in mind? Counselor, I could..., I have very little time left, we could discuss all the data and figures you gave us, but deep down, I'm sorry to see that you don't understand..., you don't understand anything. This is, in the end, of small things, of everyday things, of having smiles that cheer you up the day, of being well cared for, of being cared for; within their difficulties, feeling accompanied. We need a qualitative, consultative change, and with the motion that we will be presenting in the next plenary we will simply bet on a model, which will surely look like yours, but we will try to start a timetable and real commitments. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.7.0	Thank you, Mrs. Vílchez. There's the word Bassa Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.8.0	Thank you, President. Miri, I don't know how to start, but I'll start with the past that you explained. You said that they need day to day and that they need a quality deal. So, here I want to put it in value – and I want to put it in value above all – the great task that professionals in our child protection system do, which has neglected. You said to confess to me the children; I believe that who they should trust is the people they have on their side: defend, vet and guarantee, and I can well promise, the rights and interests of those children who cannot be with their families. For this reason I will never tire of recognizing, as I said, this task that the professionals do, that without them and they would not be able to suffice a society more just and more egalitarian. But this is sometimes left over for these questions and for these issues, or some kind of communication. And I'm not actually saying it, because I never would have said it before, but you do know that this past May 16 the Fedaia asked the Commission for information on minors at risk of exclusion – and I think they can feel reflected – and on communication media that are sensationalistic in publishing information about minors at risk of exclusion. I think that's what everybody read, and I totally agree with them. It is not possible to stigmatize infants in child centres, because doing so makes it difficult to insert correctly into their environment and normalize their situation. What we have here are public responsibilities that affect infants, and we need to make the youngest infants, who have some of our services..., viscose with all normality and grow in an environment as much as possible. The protection system also has success stories that you never explain. For example, forty young people came to college this 2016 and got the scholarship to continue. For example, professional itineraries, which live on floors..., therefore, seven-to-seven-year-olds who live on floors and have their individualized protection itinerary; in this case, eighty young ones. The truth, always self-criticizing, and I've said it from a principle. What can't come is to ask us or to set an example to the "pairs and plating: what is this? Listen, you may have been in the center of Girona's Mercy. If you want, we speak with property: the center of Mercy of Girona..., I will continue to defend it, because you go to Lleida, it is exactly the same. A collide centre with a CRAE on the side, totally independent, and there was never a problem. There were the same problems that when it was implemented eight years ago, that the professionals had, and it's true: we all have for lack of knowledge. But from there, there was absolutely no problem, and I recommend that you go and see what it's like. Therefore, in the center of Mercy, we can either agree or not agree, but in principle he knew it was the planning that there was. The way we are, we can't leave an empty center, that there can be infants, that can be there, more than that, that allows us to believe in Girona's demarcation, that there wasn't one. He knows that children's behavioral issues have changed a lot, not just our protective ones, but all of them. And that's what we're constantly talking about with Teaching, as I said. And, therefore, we must look for further measures. In this case, the twenty-and-nine CRAEs already know where they are, we explained it. But he's not worried, like his group went to this committee of Parliament and Government, which is what we're trying to improve, so all these issues will be discussed. We already have a new boarding centre in Barcelona and a new one here in the metropolitan area. And I can tell Girona that it has already begun; that for now, very well, because as we say the infants will be going in a progressive way, and with today's date I can say that in the center there are children from the center, that they will be coming in every week a few, with the professional adherents and with all the agreement of the department. So, I think we'll see how it went and I hope it's like Girona. You're more afraid. Tell me about the mating. We've explained the results. I don't know if you know how the mating works, but one thing is that you want to be a foster family and the other is that it's a child's idony; like for us, the right of the child prevails, we have to look at families as being idony. At this time there have been more registered families than there were before the campaign, so it is a result; now there is a need for children to be identified, but as for us, the right of children does not prevail in any family for these children. Therefore, the professionals are the ones who are in charge of saying which family is an idea and which is not. So, as for your motions, I have all of them, not worried, and I have the answers one by one, because they're the ones we've been giving you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.9.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.10.0	And the bill he was giving me, yes, he's on the way, so there's no way we can put it until it's finished, because I think you must want to be stronger and better.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.11.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about support policies for the Nombrosian families]] [[300-00177/11]] The aim of the agenda is to ask the Government about support policies for the Nombrosian families presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.12.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members... Well, this is a simple question, both for the Councillor, I think, as for me; so simple that I could ask her directly what her advice is doing for the families of Catalonia, and in my reply, therefore, ask her what she intends to do from now on. I say it's a simple question, which will be accompanied by a young man, too, so it's a little complicated, but I have to tell him that for us it's an important question, a question that basically affects problems in real Catalonia, specifically more than seventy thousand families named that, as you know, as you all know, they have more than three children in charge, a collection, council, that they have abandoned God's hand. And it's funny, because in this phony and in committee talking about poor, talking about social exclusion is something usual, but we never – never – put our focus on a collection that really worries us. And I think it's time, it's time to start a serious debate that revolves around the number families that at our house, as I said, exceed seventy thousand; concretely, in March 2016, and according to the same Directorate General of Families, there were a total of 114,603 official titles in force. And if I ask the Lower Councillor this question today, it is because the Federation of Nombrosian Families of Catalonia, the Fanoc, considers that there is a lack of support from the Government of the Generality for a long time to a collection that, if doubtless, repeats it to us, we are basically concerned because it is one of the most important collections in this society. It may be in the current context: we are demographyally in an emergency situation, with a welfare system threatened by the lack of generational replacement. In several countries, only a few years ago, family policies had not been planned, while today they have adapted to their needs and even to all urgency, precisely because of the difficult prospects arising from the demographic winter without any generational replenishment, and this is why economic development and the payment of pensions are being undermined. Socially, the crisis has increased the poverty indexes, and we see how objective it is that the most affected sectors have been children's homes, and especially the number of families. Families with children must be protected economically and socially by the public authorities, because they bring human capital, which is something basic for the society as a whole. More than the contribution that families make in their municipalities for what they do to the local economy, by mitigating the payment of taxes, consumption in trade, transport, etc., families with children contribute to what will be the future contributors of social security, the foundational pillar for the future maintenance of social welfare: pensions, sanitation, education, social services, etc. And this is something that is recognised and compensated throughout Europe through family policies. Here in Catalonia, however, it seems that those who have the most children are punished, thinking that because they live in a big house, that it is what they need for the goat, they are already rich. And that's completely unfair, and I'll give you an example, very, very enlightening: in a house of one hundred and twenty square meters for six people– the parents and four children– touch twenty square meters per person, opposite a person who lives alone in a 50 square meters apartment. What do I mean by that? So, that's enough, that it's time for us to stop associating large families with wealthy people. 47_percent of poor people at risk correspond to nomadic families. What's the big deal? Sure, sure. But look at the data, look at them: the taxes of poor children have grown especially hard in Catalonia, especially among the Nombrosian and single-parent families, as highlighted by the latest reports of the Sindico de Greuges, Caritas, Save the Children or UNICEF. According to these reports, the current reversal in childhood policies in Catalonia is as low as 0.9_per_cent of GDP, less than half the European average, which is 2.2_per_cent. Counselor, we are missing a firm bet for policies aimed at families with more children; we have mechanisms to our abst that we do not deploy, while we need to allocate more resources to them. But to do this you have to believe it, you have to bet real for family policies, and especially for those who have the most children. He will advise, since 2011 they have withdrawn universal aid to families..., which, of course, as a good thing, some have paid just this year, they have all just received; therefore, since then nothing has been done at all for this collection. And sometimes the truth is that I didn't just hear why his advice is said to be from families, when we have the Law 18/2003, supporting families, which is not deployed. The Government, with Councillor Cleries, when it withdrew aid to families with children up to three years old, and in the case of the appointees, ensured that this benefit would come back into effect when the economic situation improved. So, well, it's been six years, and for what I've been able to listen to in the previous interview, it's clear to me that this help isn't going to come back. I'd appreciate it, Counselor, if you'd ratify us, or if at length, or more or less, I don't know, I mean, we could get it back, right? Because it's also a demand from the Fanoc. On the tax issue. Here, in Catalonia, it is not contemplated any type of measure. Counselor, do you see any type of relief possible on the rent autonomous tram, like other self-governing communities? For example, do you see any type of downsizing possible in the asset transfer tax? I say this because there are other autonomous communities: there are lower ones, so they go from 4 to 7_per_cent. Since 2001, we have been consulting Catalonia with the Observatori Català de la Família, an organization that supposedly advises the Generalitat on support policies for families, and also acts as a forum for family participation through member entities that are representative of their interests. Among the members of the observer there are representatives of various entities linked to the family camp. But what is surprising is that an entity such as Fanoc is still not part of it, bearing in mind that the functions of this body are, among others, to prepare reports on the applications, the situation and the quality of life of Catalan families; other functions: to formulate proposals for programmes in the field of support to families, etc. I honestly believe that this entity representing the prominent families of Catalonia, so it should be present in this observer, because there is a lot to say. Counselor, I ask you what you think of it: do you not see it necessary, like me, to include it from the Fanoc in this observer? Another issue we are concerned about is the fate that is taking place at the time of processing the titles of a large family. We don't know what's going on, I hope you explain it to us, explain it to the Catalans who are waiting for the new notebook or its renewal, especially in cases of divorce, don't you? But above all why there are delays up to six months, a fact that seriously hurts, so, at this time, when students, for example, have to enroll in college. And as an example: for example, in the Canaries or in Madrid there have also been cases of collapsing like this, but what have they done? So, allocating more resources to it, they have strengthened the staff; in the end, they have assigned more function to solve a problem that is long overdue. And I'm convinced that what I'm saying to him doesn't see him again, and so, you know him, don't you? Explain to us, she will advise, why it is happening and what measures they think to take to respect. Other questions. Since the People's Party we have always apostatized that the Government is drawing up a law of nomadic families that complements the 40/2003 State Law, where the benefits and support measures are concrete in the competition field of the Government of Catalonia. It hasn't been possible for now, and we'll keep asking what you're doing. In fact, from our parliamentary group we have on various occasions presented proposals of law to respect, which the government has never – ever – been interested in, basically because the more than seventy thousand Catalan families are not a priority, they have never been. The lack of interest on the part of the Government also has to tell you that it contrasts with the great task that they do make some additions to the respect, through their fiscal ordinances, therefore, that they provide help to families with more children in charge. An example is that of Pallejà, which created the T-Family Nombrosa, with an important economic discount at the time of traveling with the city bus. And, look, speaking of urban transportation, let's look at what the government is doing together with the metropolitan area: it doesn't just incomplete the State Law of Protection of Nombrosian Families, which says that families with between three and four children must have a 20_per_cent discount on public transportation, and those who have five or more children, of the 50, but it doesn't obey the Supreme Court's sentences, which were already called upon to apply...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.13.0	Mrs. Xandri, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.14.0	...these bills. Well, President. He'll advise, then I'll keep going. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.15.0	Thank you, Mrs. Xandri. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.16.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. Lucky it was simple, the inquiry. Listen, first of all, tell him that for us the family..., in fact, to the department for the first time comes out families, in plural, because it is the concept that we have. For us the family and families are a fundamental value of our society, and today it is true that it is a gathering that protects and constitutes the refuge for all. We have seen, in some ways, the permanent mutations of families: the emergence of the figure of the woman in the public sphere and in the world of work; the possibility of creating various families at the length of life; the normative changes, both at the legal level of which they are pairs of fact, of marriages, are events that have caused breaks, I would say, of the traditional family figures that we have known, because the concept of the family is constantly changing. And for us all families, whether appointed or not, are priorities. The right of citizens in all aspects of their lives that they can choose..., has the right to decide and, therefore, is a right to be recognized and exercised, and to know the family that you want to form, too. Therefore, we are talking about family and we are clear that there is no preconceived model: neither of a large family nor of a single parent family; each family must be able to sort out which family is able to carry to term, any unit of coexistence. The family is true that it is maintained as the basic social institution and as the first mark of socialization, embrace and care of human life, and continues to feel the institution most highly valued for most citizens and citizens, so historically it is also the main social network, and one of the pillars of the economic structure of our country and one of the key social elements. The social tradition in Catalonia makes the family a key gear for cohesion, balance and social pau. In fact, what we have promoted is the design of family policies for a new country. You were talking about the Observer of the Family, who had been paralyzed for a long time and was back on the march, and who is active, who we talk about constantly. Why? Because we have very diverse, different families, above all changing and dynamic families. And this is the vision that we have as the Government: an integral vision that all the measures that we develop in the department are in the realm of support for families. For the first time, a participatory process was created, which we set aside last year, to identify the needs of Catalan families, so that we can decide, not from a point of view, but from proposals, strategic lines and priority actions. The diagnosis of the Catalan social situation was realized, focusing on the needs identified by the two-hundred important people who participated as members of the entities and representatives of local authorities, social agents, professionals, in this committee of experts or different commissions. And they ended up three parts. The assessment of the evolution of the indicators, of the previous plans, and here it should be emphasized that the reversal, that 2012 was 224_millions..., I can say that now, at present, the conjunction of the departments of the Generalitat makes a reversal of 420_millions of euros to the families. A second part, which is to identify the social needs and the diagnosis of the situation of families; therefore, attention to the specific needs, need to support the child, difficulties of reconciliation. In fact, you were talking about proposals or Christmas ideas; for us, more than a Christmas policy, which I said, what we think is important is to make it easier for women to have the names of children they want, so to make it easier for couples and families to decide which children they want, feel as single parents, feel as family names or simply feel a unity of living together. And this is one of the identifications we've made on this new platform: social needs are variable and changing. And the development of a new 2017-2020 plan, which we will present accordingly. I can already tell you here that it is a day of families in July, that it is prepared for the observer; that this month of July 2017 is to present the plan with all the proposals that there is to work, from 2017 to 2020, between all the departments for families. I can identify them with proposals for action, which is what we carry: occupation issues, therefore, employment policies, assessing which level of employment has the whole family; the general view of living units, therefore, perspective of family unity and perspective of gender. In habitat – you were talking about habitat – we don't divide the square meters for people who live there, but we see that many families have problems having habitat and that the emancipation of young people is important. Therefore, to have an offer of housing of social logger especially for families and to guide the tools, therefore, to all questions of housing. There's another topic, which you haven't talked about, which we also carry to term, and it's the theme of mental salvation, addictions, which you have a lot to see with families. Therefore, a comprehensive and inclusive system, where the participation of families is at all times of intervention. You were talking about family names. Yesterday, the syndic said that it would require single-parent families to have the same benefits and the same ones that the families named – I suppose it is in the case of all the claims that have been made. We were also talking about poverty: the latest data from last week's Idescat tell us that the poor in Catalonia has increased – we were at 19 and now we are at 19.2 – but that precisely the poor child we have managed to back down, we have managed to bring it down four points, so it has gone from 28 to 24. Therefore, something must be done. I think we need to do a lot more. I asked that the Fanoc, her participation... I don't know if it's that you are a member of the Fanoc, but if the Fanoc asks to participate in the Observer of the Family, we will quietly allow it to be there, it would only be missing. The Observers of the Family have many entities, for Fanoc has never asked, to be in the Observers; or so, to ask and already be there. One more theme to tell you..., in fact, a theme that will improve families is the issue of guaranteed income. In guaranteed income you know that one of the points..., and with you personally we have not spoken, what influence it can have when here in Parliament is able to approve the law from September. It's seen..., it's the best family policy the country's ever had, because, as you know, it's about the first member, it's about the second member, it's about children; therefore, a benefit that's not for a person, but for the child. I was talking about the notebooks. On the subject of notebooks, I'll explain it. You said'seventy thousand families; in fact, at these times there are 130,995 titles of a large family. Why? Because the names are also intertwined, there are the re-enactments, the second marriages, the third marriages. Therefore, we do not speak only of Nombrosian families, but of various types of family. It's not like there's a delay with the notebooks, it's like there's some difficulty... [[Pause.]] And I think I'm running out of time. Then, in my second intervention, I will explain exactly who the difficulties are and where they come from and why we have this problem with the large family books.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.17.0	Thank you very much, Consellera Bassa. There's a word from Mrs. Xandri.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.18.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs... well, counsel, I haven't said that a person can't sort out the family type he wants, I mean, that's what you said. And that has nothing to do with those who want to have family names, so they can take on the support of public power, since capital brings much more than a family that doesn't have children, for example, okay? At the level of what I said to him: at the social level and at the level of social security, in the end, who brings the most is who has the most children, and this I think is an objective data. What happens is that the family sees it as a charge for the government, they do not see a reversal of the future; the issue of birth is not for you a topic of the future. Even so, I also want to say that the inquiries, most of them say that women want to have a child more than they have, but that, if they don't, it's mainly because of the lack of help from governments, in general, and from administrations. I therefore believe that there is a need for a policy of support for families. As for the guaranteed income I was commenting on, I want to say that I don't know what it's going to look like at the end, because I don't know how long you've been stretching out, you know, but what's clear is that it's contemplating families with three children, so the family names of four, five, if not children, don't show up here. And then he told me about the Fanoc. So, look, no, I'm not so sure about the Fanoc. But Fanoc represents the families of Catalonia and makes a lot of activities that, well, organize them, right? And, therefore, all of our support, and it is a demand that they have made us to be able to bring it here to Parliament. And, look, they were commenting on some of the things that had been achieved, and they were: the enlargement of the sizeable family condition until the little child arrived at the twenty-one or twenty-five years old if he is a student– competence: the Government of the State – ; tax relief of EUR 1,200_in the general category or EUR 2,400_in the special category – the Government of Spain – ; tax relief of EUR 3,000_in the PIVE for vehicle renewal – the Government of Spain – ; 50_percent reduction in vehicle registration tax – the Government of Spain – ; 10_percent increase in pensions for the seas with three children and 15_percent reduction with four or more children – the Government of Spain – ; important discounts in the IBI-junte government. And not a result on the part of the Government of the Generality. Therefore, it remains clear, I believe – and the Fanoc says it, or so, that they are the ones representing the Nombrosian families – that the Government of the Generality has much to say on this issue, doesn't it? Well, I've raised a lot of issues here. Let's think, well, there's an absolute lack..., however much you want me to sweep if I want to impose here what kind of family should have Catalans and Catalans. I've focused only on the nomadic families, another day we can talk about single-parent families, no problem. I, miri, only to finish – to finish – will advise: the next November 4 and 5 is to celebrate in Montjuïc for four years the Saló de Famílias Nombroses de Catalunya. This is exactly Fanoc's initiative, huh? Because it's not the government of the generality, is it? And this is an area of finding and family diversity where companies from various sectors will present discounts and special offers in products and services for this collection. Thousands of people have visited this room at the length of these four editions and I must tell you, Counselor, that the Generality, through the correspondent Directorate General, has always been present with a booth. I think this was a gesture to the families of the names. And I say, "It was a gesture because it came to me that in this next issue your department has no intention of participating in it. I'd like you to give me a surprise and tell me that I'm wrong and yes, that you will give back your support to this event involving thousands of Catalans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.19.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. There's the word Bassa Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.20.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. I think you will agree with me in a few words that I will say at the beginning and, therefore, already... Being a large family is not a problem or an advantage; being a large family is a private and non-binding option. Difficulties are when there are people with disabilities, children with disabilities, when there are economic hardships, when there are many other social issues around, and that's as much in the families as it is not in the families. Another thing is that you talk to me about Gary Becker's theory, so the issue of economics that having children is a cost of opportunity and that, therefore, families make rational decisions, because the woman will have children if she is compensated for the cost of opportunity, and that's where we can work. But this regardless of whether I am a large family, or a unit of cohabitation or a single parent. Women have the right to have children and, therefore, we need to improve the right to conciliation for the labour market, we need to improve co-responsibility, we need to do all those benefit policies that can improve the country's GDP and we need to tackle the problem in order to solve the collection. So, whether it's a big family or not, we work with families, and that's what we're doing. You're talking to me about the government of the Spanish state. So, listen, I like you telling me, because I'm gonna read you what they sent us. Miri if you are interested in the opinion, ask us: "We would like to know your suggestions or proposals to, if necessary, review what is currently provided for in Law 40/2003 – which you know will review 2015 – "of protection for large families. So, we get a mail from the state saying we give them our opinion. And I'll explain why, and I'll explain it very clearly: because it turns out that the government of the state gives the named families until they are divorced or separated; then they are no longer the named families, even though they come together with another pair and have children. The Generalitat, what it did, from a principle, is to donate notebooks to make the rights of infants prevail to have a large family card, and to give it to any family that is large, be a family that has been reconstituted, as I said, be a family that is intertwined, whenever it is large. So, look, we have a problem now, because the State doesn't want it. I didn't mean it because you said that last year, the year 2015, made a change, and one of the things was, with history, make some damage. And, therefore, you say no, that I triy who wants the notebook: either the male person or the female person, but that they cannot have the notebooks of the nombrois families, and that they have a hard problem. So now who's the difficulty we're having? It is that the State, for the law of this large family, obliges us to remove the notebooks of those families that, for the two bands, have, that have been reconstituted into two large families and, therefore, have two notebooks, and that trin them themselves – no conflict, therefore, will tell me how they do – that trin they who want the notebook, because two notebooks cannot be held. And, as with the great embolism, ask us if, please, we can make proposals to see how you can solve this issue. The year 2015 poses a relief for nombrosian families, but not for those who are separated, only those who have kept the marriage. If they've separated, or formed another family or... So, please, I'm talking to the state's PP government: I'm making it clear that they're family names for them and that they're for you. Because this conflict that we have will be a hard one of more conflicts between families. And what's happening to us at this point is that we're going to have to deny a lot of books, all of divorce cases and reconstituted families, which, therefore, is an important comparative burden, thanks to these state government policies that you say is so good and so helpful to families. Therefore, some may hold a notebook; the others, no. The same, with what you were asking for for college benefits, will pass exactly the same: we will have the weight we will have to separate it. And we're trying to see how we can do it. Therefore, we would need to be independent, have family law of our own, be able to be state and decide what we will do. Because while we have a state that doesn't know what it's doing, that puts a relief on the families of names, only those who are religiously married, but that which they have separated no longer consist of the families of names, we don't want to be there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.21.0	Thank you, Constellera Bassa. [[Question to the Government on the freedom of expression of elected officials and the separation of powers to the Kingdom of Spain]] [[300-00175/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the freedom of expression of elected officials and the separation of powers from the Kingdom of Spain, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Joints for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Mr. Antoni Balasch.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.22.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, this is one of those questions I would never have thought of in my life, because, of course, it is an inquiry into the freedom of expression of the elected bodies. Freedom of expression: right of speech, basic right of any democracy, recognized in the new article on human rights. Therefore, I would never have thought to make an inquiry about the freedom of expression of the elected bodies and the separation of powers to the Kingdom of Spain. Why? So, because there are reports – international reports, the Greek report, European reports, reports of the syndic of Greuges, reports of journalists – that show a clear will of coercion and coercion to the political class because it frustrates the decided impulse of the Catalan people – because it frustrates the decided impulse of the Catalan people. And this ofec – this ofec – see..., I will make a strip: an economic, social, competitive, cultural offensive to a people that is the Catalan people, which provokes a reaction of the people, of the Catalan civil society, which causes the reaction of Catalan politics, and the reaction of Catalan politics calling for a referendum that the State reacts against Catalan politics to pose at the side of the people. That's not the wire. And why does the people react before this offense? Because this offensive, which runs from the 79th Statute..., in a pact in which he wanted to advance into a society every time more international, more fit into the European world, but with full freedom of competition and functioning, all competitions were seen to be detailed in a constant way and with a totally offensive financing. Let us remember the 15_millions of euros annually that go and do not return, recognized, if not, for Mr Solbes the year 2008 with the first fiscal balances, that already recognize a tax deficit of 13,000_millions. And this is written and, therefore, published. And, therefore, the people react to this offense, and what is the reaction? The reaction of the Catalan civil society: ANC, Ómnium, AMI, National Covenant for the Referendum, a reaction of the people with demonstrations in 2010, 2012, 13, 14, 15, 16 and 17, constantly in the street, with a revolt that is the revolt of the smiles. This is the power of the people. And here – and here – the counter-reaction has been blaming – of the State –, mobilize against Catalan politics because it is placed at the side of it. And the Spanish State doesn't have a logical point, which is why it comes out of the people's power. And the Spanish State has no logical reason to avoid, therefore, a reference, which is what the people ask. The politicians today are at the side of the people's demands. And, as President Puigdemont said, "the Spanish State does not have so much power to prevent so much democracy. They can pay, they can subsidize newspaper holders; they can pay, they can subsidize editorial lines so that they say who cares who they are and they pay; they can pay or subsidize because they add to the reality of a people. But the people are there, the people express themselves – the demonstrations – and the reality is there, and there are the heavy comments. And the solution is irrefutable, democratic and peaceful: a reference, which is to give the view to the people, which is a complaint with these demonstrations. And here is the first discrepancy that affects the principle of freedom of expression. There are political groups that choose to put the ballot boxes, and there are others that opt for the dictatorship that I say in the 21st century, which is information control, which is post-truth – remember that Goebbels already said that a repeated lie a thousand times is true – that this dictatorship is also based on iron by, intimidating the people, coercing, coercing the people, and also modifying the law and using justice for the benefit of the proper ideological interests. This is the dictatorship of the 21st century. And those who do, have convinced us that the end justifies the means, a phrase that is charged with undermining any democracy and any democratic state. And it is in this line that these last few days there has been an escalation of statements from the representatives of the State, who say: "We are willing to do everything to avoid the reference. What they're saying... and that, on the other hand, they're spooking us from being hit to want to perpetrate a coup d'état. The coup d'état, if there was one, was July 18, which still, certainly, the Spanish State did not condemn. But we, if we want to give a shot, it's a shot of the hand, a shot of the hand to give the view to the whole people; a shot of the hand to give the hand to the whole people. Meanwhile, the State offers a cup of punch: a cup of punch to the polls; to the opinion of people; to the opinion of politicians in its parliament; to those who defend their electoral program, in this case ours; to those who defend the divergence of parenting and opinion. It's a bit of a punch to democracy, constant and persistently and constantly. And also – and also – there are accusations and threats to institutional representatives, who want to alarm, who want to intimidate, who want to hound. And that's what we have to say is that it's less humanely speaking, that it's inappropriate for democracy, and that's a common control tool for oppressive systems. We can talk, as an example, about the biting law, which I'm not going in there, now. We are, therefore, before a section of the State against the political freedoms of those in favour of the referendum, of those in favour of independence. And so it has been denounced here, in Parliament, during these past days, Mr Ernesto Ekaizer, for example, who talks about the actions carried out by the Spanish Government, in order to curb sovereignism, being criminal politics, and drawing the whole trace and the whole structure that allows – which allows – this to work in this way. And he speaks of a gentleman, the José Ángel Fuentes Gago, who travels to Switzerland with a bag of money to buy the « screen to make him see that Mr Trias, a candidate at his time in the mayor's office in Barcelona, has money in Switzerland, and it is false. That commissary José Luis Olivera unravels the Gürtel plot and then the lid itself. Therefore, totally inverse questions from the logic and the democratic reason. Or Mr. Elpidio Silva, exjugated from the Blesa case, is who denounces the lack of independence of the judicial process, and says such important phrases as these: "Spanish democracy is post-Franco. « There is no separation of powers. "The Minister of the Interior has orchestrated this operation. And so we could go on. Or examples such as the Eurobarometer, which situates the Spanish State, with reference to judicial independence, to the third place beginning for the first time in the Member States of Europe. Or that Justices for Democracy in Catalonia denounced the judicial interferences of the State said..., they denounced them for having placed judges and prosecutors like them in decided organs that judge corruption, and also that they are names, when the fans, who do not correspond to the principles of neither merit nor ability, but to the connection and affinity with political power. This is not democracy, this is leaving the door open to friendship and corruption. And we, in response to all this..., obviously the 9-N theme because I see that time is running out. But now Parliament is also victim of this situation in Parliament: we are victims of a systemic blockade of political opinion, of a systemic blockade of political debate, we are victims of a blockade of political initiatives. The president, the first vice-president and the three secretaries of the Bureau are all charged with ensuring that the legal order guarantees the deputy debate, defending his positions, voting on all the questions, encouraging initiatives and, above all, using the principle of parliamentary inviolability that protects the parliamentary function from opinions, initiations and votes. And the Bureau has only made it possible to allow these fundamental principles, which are not without privileges, but are the necessary condition to be able to exercise the representation conferred and the expression of the primacy of the people. Paralyzing or systematically blocking a parliament is blocking democracy, it's taking representation from the people, it's offering freedom of speech. To prosecute the members of the Bureau is an attack, it is an intimidation to the people that we believe it wants to be exemplary because everyone is intimidated and held for; it is to coerce the representatives of the people's voice, it is a coercion, it is an abuse of power – and we remember all that power emanates from the people, which is the principle of democracy and democratic parliamentarianism–; it is to erase democracy and replace it by oppression, it is to judicialize the Bureau of Parliament, it is to judicialize the people's voice. And in this context, and in this framework of this thematic context, I attended the Board of Education of Barcelona, at the presentation of a report by the Syndicate of Greuges, in which the same president of the Institute of Collegiate..., of the illustrious Bar Associations of Barcelona deia– he, the President's words–: "The Bar Council of Advocates of Barcelona will always be in the defense of full freedom of expression and will always be there in an irrevocable way. And in the different interventions it was obvious..., it was talked about that the most protected must be the politicians, the parties; the search for political lives to solve political problems – this was also talked about –; it was talked about the Greek report, of the Council of Europe, which denounces incompliments. It was talked about many other things that are reflected in the report, counselor, that in all this context we would like you to explain to us what is your vision of the present moment, what is happening with reference to the freedom of expression of the elected bodies and the separation of powers to the Kingdom of Spain. But let me just say a few words. First: freedom of expression can only be exercised from the freedom of thought; freedom of opinion and freedom of vote can only be exercised from the freedom of thought. And I think we should put all the folds in the frontispiece – and I finish, President – of the building of democracy the phrase Voltaire says: "I do not agree with your ideas, but I will always defend your sacred right to express them. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.23.0	Thank you, Mr. Balasch. To answer, Mr. Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.24.0	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen... honourable Member, obviously the opinion of the Government coincides with what he expressed. Because this is not really a debate that can only be placed in the political confrontation. It is not a banal debate, that of freedom of expression, but it is a debate that should concern the whole political world, not just Catalonia, but the Spanish State, because indeed many of the things that you expressed and some of which I will subtend directly against the flotation line of the substantial elements of democracy, and one of these is the right to freedom of expression, a fundamental right that at least formally backs Article 20 of the Spanish Constitution, also backs Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights, and that, through the different sentiments that I am not going to speak of, the European Court of Human Rights has been in conformity and has given it the exact. The right to freedom of expression is the right to disagree, it is the right that ensures the expression of pluralism, and the European Court of Human Rights makes special emphasis on the special protection that public representatives deserve in relation to the right to freedom of expression, because they are public representatives the view of concerns, interests, needs, citizens' concerns. And, therefore, the right to freedom of expression is the basis on which we can build, too, democratic principles. And the European Court of Human Rights also says that it is particularly worrying – in fact, I call it a mistake – that criminal repression in relation to freedom of expression is a mistake, and especially when it applies to political bodies and representatives. And we have seen this, and you have seen it, in this very Parliament, with four members of the Bureau persecuted by the criminal way through a legal device transformed into disobedience to a judicial resolution that prevents debate, that prevents political positions from being taken, because in this Parliament we have experienced situations as ridiculous as the annulment of a political position, and that is unacceptable neither in democracy nor in the mark of freedom of expression. This device, which has been transformed to continuously restrict freedom of expression, is unacceptable. We have rejected, the representatives of Parliament and the representatives of the Government, who want to have done our job in the framework of the laws, and that is how we can tolerate it. And, I insist, it is not a debate that can be part of the daily political confrontation, it is a debate that is not trivial, that goes to the flotation line of the principles of a state of law. The requirements are constant: they have been rejected by the members of the Bureau, we have been rejected by the members of the Government; the current members of the Government have been rejected up to five requirements with which to condition our action. And that, from all points of view, is a democratic scandal and a full confrontation with the principle established by the Statute of Catalonia of the inviolability of the members of this Parliament: Article 57 says that "the members of the Parliament are inviolable for their votes and opinions. And it turns out that when someone doesn't like the votes or opinions of this Parliament, the whole machinery of the Spanish institutional justice system is set aside to restrict the right to vote and the right to express the citizens of Catalonia, and especially our political representatives present in these 135 discounts. The most perverse example of this situation was read in a complaint filed for the prosecution, drafted from Madrid and presented to Barcelona, which affected the four members of the Bureau and specifically the secretary of the Bureau, Mr Joan Josep Nuet. And I want to read it, because it is in the book of sessions of this Parliament the legal and democratic shame that it represents to see, in a text pretensely legal, the following: "Joan Josep Nuet acted in the erroneous belief that he was performing his duties as a member of the Bureau. Such a lack of will to join the independentist project is inferred from its history as a Member of Parliament of Catalonia for having voted in a negative way in Resolution 1/263 and 306 – of this legislature – "and therefore the complaint is not directed against Mr Joan Josep Nuet. In short, a complaint, a pre-judicial writing, differentiates whether something is criminal or not as a function of opinion: whether you think in terms that coincide with the positions of independence, you demand it; whether you understand that your political option is not independence, you don't want it. This, from all points of view, is unacceptable, from the democratic point of view, but also from the legal point of view. And here the prosecution, with this complaint, is retracted, and this we explain and insist on is no longer seen by the way of opinion, but by the way of fact: we have been able to read it in a complaint and it is an absolute shame. And with all that remains to be compromised, in short, is the separation of powers in the Spanish State. With examples of how these see how the separation of powers has jumped through the air: we cannot speak with the propriety of a separation of powers but that what is in the Spanish State is a distribution of powers; a confusion of powers that is manifested in this thing that seems like an ingenious phrase but that has an absolutely real basis, that is the politicization of justice and the judicialization of politics: they are the two cares of the same coin. And that's why you warned the European Commission itself, the Council of Europe, and it is manifesting the distrust of the assembly of citizens, not only of Catalonia, but of the joint of the Spanish State, in relation to judicial independence. When the Eurobarometer asks the citizen of the Spanish State – and I ask, in fact, the citizen of all the states of Europe – what is the perception about whether the law applies equally to everyone, Spain occupies in this Eurobarometer the twenty-night spot of twenty-night. Only 15_per_cent of citizens consider that it applies equally to everyone the law; or what is the same: 85_per_cent considers that it does not apply equally. And this contrasts with 75_percent of Dutch or Danish citizens, who do consider that in their state it applies equally to everyone the law; 75_per_cent say yes, and to Spain 85_per_cent say no, it does not apply equally. And that perception should be very worrying. But neither is it strange: the General Council of the Judiciary, the governing organ of the courts, is an organ that is soft in terms – and these are terms that use them themselves – such as the minority bloc and the majority bloc. Here the decisions are not taken by merit, they are taken on: 12 to 9 is the result of the majority of votes that serve to sort out presidents of Supreme Court rooms, presidents of higher courts of justice, presidents of provincial hearings, etc. And, therefore, it is not the merit that weighs, it is the political end. And this institutional abscess is also seen in the Constitutional Court: an arbiter– an arbiter– who – we have said many times, and we have done well to repeat it – wears the samarreta of the other team does not make an arbiter, he is a player more in this game; arbiters who are also screened for political color: the PP and the PSOE, in the Congress, in the Senate and in the Government agree to decide who forms part of this court with so prominent members, sure, of long legal history, but also long political trajectory, because there is, for example, one of the members of the Constitutional Court, who accumulates as a member of the People's Party. Therefore, can this political court really decide what it can talk about and why it cannot talk about the Catalonian Parliament or any other parliament? Our view is that no, and this is a clear indication of the difficulty of the freedom of expression and the separation of powers, and also the inviolability of the deputies of this chamber. When Britain was prompted by the need to come up with a political solution for Scotland, the British Prime Minister said: "Before the British so-called democrat. Is it true to hear the president of the Spanish government say before the Spanish so-called democrat? Does anyone really believe that? [[Greetings.]] Will we ever hear the president of the Spanish government, Mariano Rajoy, say before the Spanish so-called democrat? I, frankly, have a lot of doubts. Mr. Mariano Rajoy has the ballot box, he has the citizens talking. And we find examples as recent as the demonstration of the Vice President of the Government in saying: "The President of the Generalitat instead of listening to people wants to make a referendum. It goes in the line of the demonstrations of former Minister Margallo said that they have done infinite favors to prevent the other states from being in favor of Catalonia's position; or he has also dedicated a brilliant idea to us as it is that what he would do would be to requisition the ballot boxes and the papers and destroy them. And also, for that matter, they have remembered that they can use the state of the seven, the state of exception, the state of alarm, suspend competitions or remove electives so that they do not comply with what their political position calls them. So, I, quite clearly, on behalf of the government, what I have to say is that they want us to surrender and deliver the ballot boxes, but we will not. We will not do this because we have a compromise with democracy, we have a compromise with the citizens and we have a compromise with freedom of expression, because before you independence we are democrats. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.25.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Mundó. [[Asking the Government about the metro at Llobregat Hospital]] [[300-00174/11]] The next item is an inquiry to the government on the metro at Llobregat Hospital, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.26.0	Thank you, President. Conseller Rull, last week the neighbors of Hospitalet we received the news that line 9, the 10_de_metro line would stop at the stations of Provençana and Ildefons Cerdà in 2019, a news that, if materialized, should be cause for celebration for neighbors who have been suffering for many years from the troubles of the works to then pass the metro without stopping in the neighborhood. It would be a reason for celebration if it were not because ten years ago those works should be done and the whole line in operation, and two more years of waiting to see those stations completed seems to us to be an excessive time frame for works that have been working for so long. They are two very important stops: one is next to the City of Justice and the other, that of Provençana, is next to CAP Amadeu Torner, which is a CAP where many specialists have derived from other neighborhoods of the city and whose communication with some of those neighborhoods is not, because..., the truth is that it is practically null, and the little communication that there is is not the most appropriate for the elderly people who come to this CAP. Let us remember that, at the beginning, with this line 9 and with the branch called« line 10 it was promised to provide a rapid transport to densely populated areas, such as Santa Coloma or Hospitalet, and that, by placing the first stone in 2002, with Convergence governing, it was promised that in five years it would be ready and that it would cost 2,000_million_euros. Over these years they have been postponing the completion date and the cost has multiplied by three. And in this work you have suffered all the unforeseen events and because you have, you will remember it especially because before being a counselor, you were also a spokesperson in the commission, and you have followed up during all these years, and some of the unforeseen events have been the very ones of the execution of some works, but others not so much. This 9_de_metro line has a very black story, like when aberrant amounts were spent to re-raise a wall that fell by mistake so that the turn government could take the picture in front of this wall. The truth is, well, the story of this line is very heavy. You will understand that, with the background that exists, Hospitalet's neighbours and citizens in general are concerned, because beyond the misconceptions, over all these years a series of announcements have been made, a number of promises have been made that have not yet been completed. And citizens don't want ads, they want facts, because it's not suspicious to distrust, it's because there's a history of unfulfilled promises, not just with line 9, but with a lot of other things, to put..., the Segarra-Garrigues channel, the Personal Autonomy Act, the return of the extra pay of the officials, the construction of the CAP outpatient clinic in Can Long, Sabadell, or, for example, the expansion of the Viladecans Hospital. And, well, in that area of Hospitalet for many years, flats have been sold with the promise that the subway would stop in the neighborhood; in 2005 there were people who bought a flat watching the works, and they are still waiting. And what has happened in Hospitalet or in those specific neighborhoods, in that neighborhood, is that all these drum and dish ads made a lot of people make an economic effort to stay in the neighborhood, a neighborhood where the price of the flats is practically already equal to that of Barcelona, and, of course, these people make an extra effort by paying this cost, thinking that at least they would be well communicated, and what happens is that, that, they continue..., right? the stations are not operational and are not communicated. As I was telling you, the neighbors don't want any more ads, they want facts and I hope this inquiry today will help to reassure them. A few months ago he told us that it was impossible to open the stops of Provençana and Ildefons Cerdà because there was no money, right? ; that's when it was said, it was announced that Barcelona yes and Hospitalet no. Then, two weeks ago, you went to Hospitalet, met with the municipal groups to explain to them, for this, that the stops were to be opened in 2019 and that they were to create a commission to follow up the works with members of the Generalitat, technicians of the city council, the municipal groups and the neighbors. And they tell them that they have done a budget engineering, that they had found a lung, a budget lung, and that they had found money that they could do for themselves, and when a councillor of my party, Carmen Esteban, asked him whether this was linked to the budgets or, on the contrary, there was really no budget money and there was the possibility that in the end the work could not be done, he replied that in no way, that this figure, which was 35_million_euros, and those dates were immutable, and that if the investment was made it was because the money was already there, but that we would not find in the budgets a specific item to put in line 9. Then, of course, a week later, at a press conference, that you went with Mr Junqueras on foot in the tunnel, to a question from a journalist who was on the same line as my partner did to him, he replied that no, that ‘first you do the works and then you make the payments, and that with that difference of time you don't have to have the money right now. So, of course, it doesn't finish us off: a week we are told or understand that there is money, that they have found it; the next week we won't, that they will already pay it, and as they seem contradictory statements, because it really doesn't seem very clear to us, I would like you to take this opportunity to shed light on this matter, and that we can be calm knowing how they are going to do it, tell us where the money is going to come from and that it won't happen like other times, that the works will be paralyzed for lack of funding. And we want to know what it meant about the 'budgetary lung', because the neighbours of Hospitalet we are delighted with the life with which they have found a way to open these stations and that the metro does not pass by, but we also want transparency. And we don't want to be left with this feeling that they have changed several times in just two weeks and that they can go back to... so, that, that, that speech can be changed again as soon as we leave. And, yesterday, when we asked the president about the money, it comes to us that it's Madrid's fault, that he doesn't give us the money. But what's wrong with that is that someone who doesn't bother to go to presidents' conferences to discuss autonomous financing and promises us independence by the day after tomorrow. And, moreover, it is to say this when the exclusive competition, in this case of line 9, is of the Generalitat, that the Generalitat has been the one who smoked the triple of the budgeted: it was two_ thousand_euros and now we go for six_ thousand, and because here it plans the shadow of the doubt of what has happened: there are many who wonder what has happened with this line. And one thing that worries us is that, in order for the 9_de_metro line to be more or less profitable, it has to be completed. They explained to us that they had requested a loan from the European Investment Bank of EUR 750 million. But, of course, it is very paradoxical that they are asking for this loan from the European Investment Bank at the same time that they are engaged in an independence process that, whether they want it or not, would involve leaving the European Union. Nor does it help to have Mr Romeva laughing last week thanks to the CUP in an inquiry into how bad the European Union is. Then, not to mention that financial institutions want stability, and the uncertainty generated by independence is not exactly the most conducive scenario for us to be granted a loan. So, one of the questions we wanted to ask is if you have any news of this loan they announced they had requested. Then again in the press conference it was said that they had in mind other financing alternatives in case they did not grant this loan. We wanted to know what those alternatives are, because also yesterday the president, when asked Inés Arrimadas on this subject, said that the solutions were very close, and we want to know what he meant. Because in this sense we are a responsible opposition; that is, we will be at your side to defend the need for this line 9, as we have done with the Mediterranean Corridor, which we have been at your side in asking that these works be materialized, but also responsible in the sense of being vigilant, alert, of how it is done: we want transparency, we want to know how it is being done. Then, well, ask him: the works of the central section are stopped, we understand, and we don't know if they are going to be completed by 2020, 2025, 2030, we have no idea. So we don't want you to tell us a fixed date, but at least a rough forecast. Because according to his own words we are paying a annual fee of 450_million_euros that in no way are justified, having the whole central stretch, which is the one that gives meaning to the line, stopped, because not ending it also costs money. Because since there was no money to pay and follow the works, a concession formula was invented with the companies that was: "You do the works to me, which I will then pay for. And that's what I'm already paying you, it shouldn't have been negotiated very well, because that annual 450_million_euro fee doesn't seem like a very reasonable price for a work that was supposed to cost 2,000_million_euro in its day. It would make some sense if it were the whole open line, but for the two bits we have on the tips, it's a real barbarity. And at the end of all these years we're going to end up paying 16,000_million_of_euro, including funding, which is a real lifesaver. I would like to know when it will be possible to go from Hospitalet or Santa Coloma to Lesseps neighborhood without losing a_hour, or for example to Santaló street, where I, by the way, was working and took an_hour to arrive, which took less time to get to Tarragona in Renfe than to this area of Barcelona with the different shuttles I had to do. And then another question: in July 2016 you said you were studying how to release 200_million annually from that cannon to inject them into the construction of the central tunnel. So, well, since we haven't heard anything else, we'd like to know how this is going. And, well, the case is that this line 9, in addition to what is taking a long time to do, has the problem of this overcost: 2,000_million is what it was going to cost in the beginning, and it was then the greatest work the Generalitat was going to undertake in all its history, and what it has become is a black hole that takes all the money. And, in the end, here, even if they blame each other of the different governments, in the end we are certainly not the citizens with the mischiefs that have been made over all these years. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.27.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer this question, and on behalf of the Government, the honourable Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr Josep Rull, now has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.28.0	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, I presume to be bound by the wording of this question. There were some elements, let's say, that pointed to a direction that would question this assumption of bondage, but it posed it in some interesting terms to be worked on. And, therefore, I thank you for this opportunity, this opportunity to take as much of the light as possible in relation to this action. First element: I don't get the rings at the time of recognizing that line 9 is not a lucky act. He didn't do well; he didn't do well for many things. You explained it very well: let's say, there was a higher cost increase than it should have been, and the terms could not have been fulfilled. And, therefore, we have no problem..., yesterday President Puigdemont himself recognized it: line 9, so, it is not a good example, it is not a lucky work, from this perspective. And now the government of President Puigdemont, like the government of President Mas, what we are looking at is to put alternatives to it, put solutions to it, and unlock this situation. But before I get into the subject, I'd also like to zoom in a little bit, because you've incorporated some elements. He says: "Home, there is an important over-cost in terms of financing. It's that we have a problem, and the problem is the financing of the country itself. And that's no less, which is when you don't have the resources to do a certain act, you have two options for life: u, don't do it, or two, look for different payment mechanisms, structured payment systems. This is an option. Let's talk about a case where there were structured payment systems, different payment. For example, unfold the Transversal axis. Doubling the Transversal axis effectively cost 710_million euros; we won't end up paying at least 3,300, unless we look for some mechanism to reverse this situation. But these are the conditions of the concrete market, and here, either you pose explicit tolls, or you go to a different payment system, or you just don't do the performance, you don't do the work. In the case of the Transversal axis it is very clear why we have the work done and we have achieved something that is very important, which is that we have practically reduced to the minimum expression of fatal accidents – practically. Is it worth it? It's worth it; from our perspective, it's worth it. But when you don't have the resources, then you have to look for some mechanisms, and in the case of the Transversal axis, or in the case of line 9, the resources are there– the resources are there. Were they in what shape? There was the measure that Catalonia generates enough, let's say, fiscal profitability as to face these actions, the problem is that there is a part of what we generate that is not left here. But beyond that... that's a speech that you don't accept, that of the fiscal deficit, but it's a round reality, recognized for the very Government of the State, the difference between what Catalans pay and what they return to the country. Let's look for something more concrete, to you that pleases the laws, and they like the scrupulous compliment of the law: Statute of Catalonia's autonomy, additional third provision. Line 9 arose from the conviction that the Spanish Government would comply with the law, and that it would comply with the third additional provision of the Statute and that there would be resources to finish line 9. Because the remaining third additional arrangement is 3,000_million. Finishing line 9 on will cost 1,200 – 1,200_million. Therefore, if the Spanish State completes the law, completes what you provide for the Autonomous State of Catalonia, we can pay three times what is left of line 9 of the metro. That's the theme, and that's no less, it's not random. And so, when there's no such resources, what happens? It produces the paradox that different payment systems are to be sought. I personally, as a counselor, do not consider that the best formula for planning to unlock the construction of certain stations was to use the concession system of these stations. If you were a counselor, I wouldn't have done it, I don't think that was the best mechanism to do it. But we now have to face this reality – we have to face it. There are 450_million in canon, 450_million is what we pay from line 9 every year. There is one part, let's say, that refers to canons to the stations, another part to technical canons, another part to face the interests of financing; they are various elements. But I also have no problem recognizing that the option of granting stations to get resources was not a good option, because that was not a concession – that was not a concession – that was a different payment system. That was the theme. So, what's in it for us? See how we get back to the situation. And here's where we got to work and work really hard. And how did I do it? When the 9th line of the University Zone was opened until the airport, you remember that I myself in this Parliament said: "We will continue the works of the tunnel; we will continue the works of the tunnel so that we can serve as soon as possible the stations that are most in demand of the branch of the 10th line, which are the two of Barcelona and the two of the Hospitallet. This was an uncertain decision; if we had put an end to the work of the tunnel, today we could not talk about the two of Barcelona or the two of the Hospitallet. Allow me to use the half-hour of Russian girls. First Russian girl: continue the performances in the tunnel. Second Russian girl: looking for an exceptional financing mechanism for such a front to the two stations of Barcelona, and here I want to put in value the good collaboration between the Government of Catalonia and the Assembly of Barcelona, of all the municipal groups of the Assembly of Barcelona that they bet for this, and we got the resources to do these two stations: Foneria and Foc Cisell. Third Russian girl: without the two stations in Barcelona, we couldn't have looked for funding to make the two stations in the Hospitallet. And what about the hospital and the hospital meeting? They give us one thing very reasonable: « Home, we have suffered the whole construction process of line 10 of the metro, what it would not have felt is that in July of the year 2018 passing the trains under our house, annexed to Barcelona and not happening to the Hospitallet. I didn't have a sense of that. And, in a unanimous way, the Hospital Assembly and the Federation of Vein Associations say to us: "Look for some mechanism. And here we have a crux, which is: to find a mechanism to solve all the financing through this option of the EIB's credit that we have asked for, is to say, when the central part is solved also go to look for the branch of line 10, or to look for some mechanism in presuppositional claus. And here I answer the concrete themes that you said. When we say it's a presuppositional lung what we're saying is that it's not a different payment system, it's not a structured payment system, it's not a canon, it's not a German system, it's just that we're paying it with strictly presuppositional resources. With what instrument? With an economic plan and finance, which is the economic plan and finance of Ifercat. That's how things work. You, as you've never ruled, this doesn't just... these concepts don't end up, sometimes, getting inside, but that works exactly like that. It works when we face nine reel performances, for example, the C-14, the Three Bridges, or the C-58 or the C-17. And it works like this: through an economic financing plan. The Government of Catalonia agrees to this, agrees to establish multi-annualities. What did I say? What's going on with the set of works? When you start doing the works, the certification of the works – and this is also important – is produced at the end of a month, two months, three months, and, therefore, tends to pass that there is a small gap between when you start performing the works..., you start before the works to pay, so you pay against certification. That's how it works. And, therefore, the works are finished and you keep paying. This is a basic concept. But here, when he said, "What I wanted to say is that there is no different payment system, we did not ask for a credit to be able to make this payment from the two stations of the Hospitallet. We have done this through this mechanism of the financial economic platform of Ifercat, which is the public enterprise that has ended the actions in the railway infrastructures. So we explained it to the Hospital Assembly, so we explained it to the Federation of Vein Associations, so we explained it to the municipal groups, and before we made it public, we gathered together with the Hospital's living forces. And we did another thing: we decided to create a follow-up committee. The works will begin June. The works..., we asked the Assembly of the Hospital which..., we cannot put into service the two works simultaneously; in this case, yes, there will be a gap of six_months between Provençana and Ildefons Cerdà. From the Hospitallet he said: "The priority is Provençana. So, let's start with Provençana, let's start the works this June. The workers, physically, will begin the month of June. I'll explain later... because Mrs. Arrimadas says she was surprised at the execution of the works. It is that this is not done in six months– it is not done in six months–, then I will explain it. But this is the mechanism, there will be the follow-up committee and, therefore, our idea is light and tachographs in the joint performance. Next thing I know, I'm going to give you more details than we're going to deal with this and how we're going to deal with the central tram on line 9. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.29.0	Thank you, Counsellor Rull. There's a word for the street lady.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.30.0	Thank you, Counselor. Well, first of all, I wanted to answer you that you said that, since we have never ruled... Well, of course, it's that to rule so badly, because... we rule not, but work we've worked a lot out of politics, and for this we're here, so, to try to make things a little bit better. [[Greetings.]] Here the problem is that things have become fatal – they have become fatal. They have paraded different governments in which, well, practically, then, the whole parliamentary arc has been; we have not. And may I rectify my companion Marina, who is the expert, but I do not know any work in Spain that has had these costs; well, the tunnel of Pajares, may be, but much less is the cost as scandalous as this. It's a matter of mismanagement. Line 9 has a length of 47.8_kilometres and a budget of 6,000_million_de_euro, which means a cost per kilometre of 125_million_de_euro. If we look for the Spanish average as far as the construction of urban railway lines is concerned, we can say that the average cost of tunneling by tunnel is 41,3_million_euros per kilometer. It means that this line is costing three times as much as the Spanish average. Did they have the 2,000_million_euro cost of the work? , and another 2,000, and another 2,000... It's not a tax deficit problem: they've had money and time to make three lines 9. And, in any case, Mr. Mas-Colell already acknowledged that the fiscal deficit was false. The work cost 2,000_million_of_euros and had to be in five years. They have had much more than 2,000_million and have vanished, and they have spent fifteen springtimes. Where are they? It's triple money and triple time. Where's that line 9? And yet the excuse is that they needed more money than the third additional provision. How many millions more? But it's just that, besides, I take out the third additional provision, trying to..., in a Hospitalet inquiry... we're talking about Hospitalet de Llobregat. And, of course, the third additional provision of the Statute of Catalonia on what it talks about is that the State will invest each year in a given territory according to its GDP. So, this means that, doing the simile, in Sarrià we have to invest according to their GDP, and Hospitalet, that our GDP is not the same, that they leave us at the hand of God, we would not have stations. That is what the third additional provision says. This government, which claims to be so social, is defending an additional third provision which seriously undermines the redistribution of wealth and the equality of all citizens: the money, for the rich, and for the poor, who will already be affected, that is what the additional third provision says. Then, you have commented that you, as a counselor, would not have opted for that system of concessions, which is the one that in the end has ended up jamming the entire management of the line. But at the time when that decision was made to make that form of financing was part of his Government; i.e. they are sitting as responsible for the finances of the Generalitat to..., so that party, a party that was part of the tripartite, that took part of the responsibility in that economic and financial disaster because, that, they were in the Government, and there it is, and there they are sitting financial responsible. And you will understand that having Esquerra manage the finances and the budget lungs, the first thing that comes to mind is to call the pneumologist, because it doesn't give me any – it doesn't give me any – tranquility, that Mr Junqueras also comes to the press conference last week, so, to give us calm and to say that the money will be. He then commented that they went to Hospitalet and were talking with the living forces, with the neighbors. And I'll comment, well, something that happened in this case. The neighbors met with you, the truth that was a joy to them, and commented: "Let us do the neighbor assembly before we do the press conference, let us comment on it. And, of course, last week they received the call: "Hey, what's coming is Councilman Rull, who's coming Junqueras, and we have to run the press conference. And, of course, they were surprised, because, how hastily, if the assembly was yesterday afternoon? – yesterday Wednesday. So, those rushes to do the press conference... so, they were a little surprised, and so they also told us that, that, they didn't finish seeing things. They were very happy, that goes ahead, but we do not want, or do not want, to stay in one more announcement: they want security, to know. The reason for this interpellation was that: security. No more deceptions, it's many years of neighborhood struggles and deceptions, and they didn't want me to be one more. And then, well, you've commented that the City Hall of Hospitalet was very concerned about this issue. But that's another of the concerns of Hospitalet's neighbors, because Hospitalet's neighbors are already used to the Mayor's bowl and dish ads that don't just materialize, which, well, has even gotten to promise us that Ferran Adrià will come to set us up a cooking school and we're still waiting, and, of course, with a mayor so worried about going out on the cuché paper, and you take her to the ad, that is to say, to last week's press conference, of course, the neighbors said: « Malament. I mean, we're very happy, but we don't want it to be the dream of a summer night, and that really, then, materializes. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.31.0	Thank you, Mrs. De la Calle. I got the word Councilman Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.32.0	All right, thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House... or else she was going through this: this inquiry was going to make municipal politics here in the Parliament of Catalonia, and to make, let's say, a campaign for the proper municipal elections. I did not understand exactly who the meaning of this inquiry is. We are part of the solution, we have given answers, we have calendared it, we have sought follow-up mechanisms. I don't think that Citizens in this Parliament come to make an inquiry with a basis – with a lot of cordiality – that has some elements, let's just say, demagics that we can't support. And I'm sorry, because you've started the interrogation well, if I may comment. You started it well, you put the various fish in the trencaclosques; but in the end, the tendency is to go where they want to go, which is to look for this element of confrontation. This inquiry should be used to say: "Ostres, well: we are at the side of the people of the Hospitallet, of the coming, of the citizens to solve the issue. You have to decide whether you are part of the solution or part of the problem. In the first intervention you made a warning, he said: "You have asked for a credit in the European Investment Bank, but you are independent and want to leave the European Union. Will citizens help us if the European Investment Bank grants us this credit or opposes it? Or do you suggest they don't give it to us? Or will you suggest that, to the extent that there is a democratic process here, you, through your MEPs or whatever, go to the European Investment Bank to say that you do not give us this credit? What's his position? Because with this insinuation that you made today and that yesterday you made Mrs. Arrimadas, we already understand where we want to go. Here, we're either on the side of solving the actual issues that concern people or not. And that's the dilemma, that's what you have to decide, that's what you have to sort out; that's essentially what this is and that's the foundation. And we would be concerned, in fact, that this parliamentary group would think more of other clauses than in order to resolve the issue of people. We've discovered this, that today they come to do municipal politics. We have seen that they have made a threat to say : « Account, European Investment Bank, let us say here, we are in the hands of a government that is suspected in relation to the European Union. I, third element: man! That you tell us that the Spanish State does not have to invest in Catalonia or in the same proportion... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah. You said: "Listen, insofar as Catalonia is richer in other territories, the public reversal does not mean that it is produced with the intensity that would correspond. That's it. And they have endorsed some general assumptions of the State that basically what they say is that the reversal of the State in Catalonia is not about the ability to generate wealth, that it's good for Catalonia and good for the rest of the State, but very much under the percentage of the population he saw in Catalonia. That's what Citizens are saying at these times. And I am puzzled that you have solemnized it with this joy that characterizes it. He came here and said: "Listen, if the Spanish State does not invest in Catalonia, with us generating more resources than in other territories and we must be essentially solidarity, escorted, not that these resources arrive. So, there's agraeixo, huh? because it was a round-the-clock expression of sincerity. We know what Ciutadans' initial gene – we know – is about language, Catalan culture; you were born just to question certain things in this sense. But today they continued in these terms, you said that basically. When we ask for more investment, in Catalonia, when we say that the economic locomotive of the Spanish State is good enough to have resources to create prosperity here and there, where are you? And you have clearly told us today that this is not a concept that you share. So, you know what? The vast majority of political forces in this Parliament, whether we are sovereignists or not, are part of this broad consensus. And you, as always, decide to leave this consensus that it is for the benefit of the citizens of this country. You have various crussels to sort out, but in the end you don't just sort one, which is a crussel that you are trying to get the citizens of this country – the people of the Hospitallet, the people of Barcelona or the people of the Pallars Sobirá – in short, you have fewer instruments to generate progress and to benefit the people of this country. This is his tria, it's legitimate. We cannot share it, and we must be able to explain to the citizen of Catalonia that there are certain formations that legitimately consider that the best way to work for this country is to deny it the tools to generate prosperity. This is his option, it's not ours. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.33.0	Thank you, Counsellor Rull. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into school outcomes]] [[302-00148/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on the school results, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.34.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Before you leave, Mr. Rull: you have a lot of imagination, huh? The people we were born in humble surroundings – my companion Naomi of the Street, who is from the Hospitallet, I soc de Rubí – spoke about the importance of education as a social elevator. As I said, I grew up in Rubí, an industrial city, which went to form with people who, like my parents, came from the rest of Spain looking for a better future for them, but especially for their children and their daughters. And all my childhood and all my youth has been misled by the firm belief that studying was the best way to achieve a fuller life. I went to a public school and a public institute where we had to be congratulated on the fact that all the students who were presented to the selectivity tests approved them. Afterward, much of my working life as a high school teacher has been in Rubí, and I have been seeing with sadness and concern how every year fewer students attend college because fewer students are present at selectivity and fewer students approve of it. And I always ask myself the same question: if my Rubi's friends and I were born a few years later, would we get to college? We'll never know the answer, but the data we have isn't very comforting, because in the city of Barcelona, a student from Citad Vella has eight times more chances of school failure than one from Sarria. And these school segregation data are repeated to many people and cities in Catalonia. In fact, very few students enrolled in public centres in Ciutat Vella arrive at the university. And this is an unacceptable fact, I think it's news that I should open the papers, and it goes absolutely unnoticed. Why? Because this terrible fact shows us that the Catalan school, unfortunately, does not guarantee equity or equal opportunities; it is to say, does not guarantee social cohesion. The social ascent to Catalonia has spread, and the government does nothing to fix it. We have a government... well, in fact, there is no government presence at these times, which already denotes the importance it has for education. We have a government, as I said, without force or illusion to solve the problems of Catalans; a government that is obsessed with repeating 9-N. We have seen this clearly: my company Naomi of the Street was talking about the L9 of the subway and here it is talking about repeating the 9-N. And so far, for example, the Department of Education has not been able to give an answer – and we have had two hours of questioning this Tuesday –..., it has not given any answer why we in Catalonia have the lowest levels of school failure among immigrants and also among Spanish speakers. We do believe that education is a social elevator, because we know that talent can come from anywhere. Talent doesn't understand geography or social classes, and we need to enhance all the talent we have in Catalonia to ensure equal opportunities for all children. We need to enhance excellence where it is, and the situation of families cannot be an impediment. We ask for an authentic gratuity from the public school, and this means that families do not have to pay three hundred euros each start of the course for each child. Students must be able to access free text books by means of a prestec system, as is the case with other autonomous communities, such as Madrid, which, thanks to an initiative by Ciutadans, the students of the Community of Madrid now have free text books. But here in Catalonia, which we presented the very proposition of the law, we could not even talk about the subject, because the Lords of Together for the Yes made a statement to us to the totality, and we could not even talk about the subject. That is to say, while the students of Madrid, thanks to Ciutadans, now have free text books, in Catalonia the families will continue to pay three hundred euros each start of the course. Nor can we segregate the long schools of urban nuclides. Then we'll talk about it, too, with the CSP's motion, but we'll also have a point, because it can't be that some families have to pay for transportation and others don't, because it's a kind of discrimination. And we also want all students to be able to access post-compulsory education. And, of course, all students can study in three vehicle languages – English, Spanish and Catalan – just like the children of the presidents of the Generality and the families with more money. This is why equal opportunities are given. But one more time, Junts for the Yes doesn't want to talk about this. So let's hope that these Ciutadans proposals serve because the social ascent goes back to Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.35.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. Next, in order to defend the papers presented by the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the word María José García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.36.0	Well, thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not deny that we have better educational results than we did a few years ago, as in almost all of Spain, but if we understand that education must transmit knowledge, develop skills, aspire to excellence; if we believe that education is a social mechanism of equity and solidarity, offering more and better opportunities to all, then we cannot be satisfied. The current system is not truly inclusive. It continues to penalize public education, pupils with the greatest difficulties and those with the lowest cultural background. It is an unequal model, rigid in opportunities and permissive in results, and it also imposes linguistic discrimination on children who speak Spanish from the beginning and throughout pre-university education. Much has to be done, much has to be invested, many dogmatisms have to be changed to make educational opportunities truly equal for all, apart from the language spoken at home or the socio-economic or cultural level of the family. The first thing that needs to be reviewed to improve school outcomes is the model we apply. We support centre autonomy from the PP, but we need universal and objective accountability systems. We need motivated, independent, well-trained and discharged teachers of administrative work. We need expert support for specific situations that exceed the work of the teacher, specialists in conflict resolution, psychologists, watchmen, trained personnel and sufficient for each type of special educational need present in the school. We need more investment, decent classrooms, proper equipment. The culture of effort must be fostered, because, in life, growing, improving, changing always involves an effort. Because the sense of responsibility or satisfaction for the job well done are not only qualities that help to approve the courses, but also strengthen self-esteem and form valuable citizens and that they will bring to society. And there is no need to cheat on the solitary: we should ensure that the approved ones always correspond to sufficient minimum levels, which at present, without truly objective external and universal assessments, no one can insure. In addition, it is very difficult to make progress with thematic or competitive gaps without establishing previous knowledge. However, this seems to be a constant in our system: primary teachers complain that many children arrive first without having the basic notions of reading and writing that would correspond to them; high school teachers complain that many students arrive at ESO without the minimum necessary knowledge in basic subjects such as mathematics, language or science, and university professors, that many students, despite having passed an access test, have elementary knowledge gaps, and most lack of spelling. We continue to defend system-wide common external tests, equal for all students, such as those in 20 OECD countries, which, according to PISA, involve sixteen points of improvement in results. And that is why we ask the Generalitat to propose, in the field of the educational pact, the format of evaluation of the end of stage for all Spain that seems to it to be more effective; that it contribute its experience of years of tests of basic competences, which are not perfect, but less is nothing. And finally, it is clear that the dominance of several languages is an element of competitiveness and also of culture. However, it seems sensible that this multilingualism imposes the same difficulty on all pupils. As long as we are in Catalonia and Catalan is a minority language, originating in Catalonia, no one has the right neither legal nor moral to impose all education in Catalan, because precisely in order for all pupils to be equal, the law enshrines the right of all to have their language, if it is official, as a language of instruction, and so all pupils, speak Catalan or Spanish at home, face this multilingual teaching with the same difficulty. And this, in fact, is the usual practice in all bilingual territories of the world, except in the Faroe Islands and here in Catalonia. And if we want multilingual teaching, Catalan will necessarily cease to be the only language to be used. Now, does it make sense for Catalan to give up hours, subjects, to English, but not to Spanish? Does it make sense to think that the survival of Catalan is at risk if it gives space to Spanish but does not endanger if it gives that same space to English? In short, we ask that the Generalitat review the linguistic projects of the Catalan centres and adapt them to the legality, guaranteeing the minimum vehicle presence of Catalan and Spanish, because if one of these languages is not to be used, the linguistic project is illegal. I'm sure that's how we also improve school results, especially for students who speak Spanish, are Catalan, are from the rest of Spain or are foreigners. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.37.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Popular Unity Application - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.38.0	Thank you, President. Well, good morning. Mrs. Sierra gave us a speech, in the interrogation, and also today, in the motion, based on criticism of inequalities. He was explaining to us, wasn't he? on the day of the inquiry, that there were schools that made public educational projects based on generating equality between students with procedures of very different cultural diversity, etc. You, in addition, focused your speech a lot on the line of cultural diversity, migration... you came back here now, to the young man, and you made that same speech again. When we saw the young man, we agreed that you were neither in the public school nor in the... that, moreover, you were repeating the whole issue of evidence, and that, moreover, when you were talking about events, neither, so to speak, was different between public and private schools. In this sense, our papers have been used to put public every time you focus and to capture the first point, which is precisely evidence, which we understand is one of the elements, say, which generates inequality and which generates segregating educational centres and policies. But you didn't accept it. It has not only not been intended to reiterate that the centres where you want to put more resources must be public, they understand that the public school is the main mechanism of equality and cohesion that we have in this country, but that you do not make any mention of the difficult problem of school segregation; school segregation by reason of origin, precisely much more charged with this whole geography that you explained as your own and that much more, so to speak, the lack of investment of resources. It's hard. You make a speech of equality, of excellence, but you are setting up segregating policies, educational policies that enhance inequality. Because when you don't bet on public school as the central mechanism to catch all this, we understand that precisely you are doing is enhancing inequality and segregation. I'd say I'm about to make perverse political rhetoric, I'm about to talk about fighting discrimination and the myth of migrants and those who come from Andalusia and the lack of social cohesion, when you're running an electoral campaign. What you're doing is a speech that wants to take advantage of a problem as hard as school segregation, a problem as hard as class differences, a problem as hard as institutional racism. And, in addition, the policies that you proposed precisely sharpen all this. Miri, from the CUP - Cry We have fought and fought for public school, universal, quality, as the mechanism of generation of equality, as the mechanism of construction of common, diverse identities, but what you are proposing is precisely the opposite. So they'll keep us in the front. [[the speaker laughs]] We have no other option than to, say, fight the speech that you are making. Moreover, you are complicit in the speech of this PP that raises the language and the problem of language, a non-existent problem, that precisely what it does is to segregate and precisely what it does is to raise counterpossible identities, identities that..., or so, that go against the equality and common construction of an identity that can be different, respectful and liberating. Therefore, Mrs Sierra, we will abstain from most points, because we exercise political responsibility and think that, as education is, we cannot go against lowering rates and increasing resources, but what we cannot do is give support to a young person who is precisely against what you are raising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.39.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Then, in order to defend the papers presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the word Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.40.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everybody. In the first place, therefore, thank the young man in Ciutadans, if it is true that we might also have liked a different focus. We believe that a basic issue to work on is the lack of equity, which we obviously still find in the education system, which is especially expressed in the students' unequal educational outcomes as a function of their socioeconomic status or also for reasons of foreign origin. And this, for us, is the key. And it is this inequality that we understand to be addressed, to be eradicated, with support measures but also – important – without stigmatizing. This is why we see measures that, in general, offer a reduction in rates, an increase in teaching staff, in order to provide better educational quality; as well as staff with support, reinforcement for the most needy and difficult students in order to achieve basic skills – we understand that this is necessary. And we also propose and share the fact of increasing English teaching skills to improve, so, the quality of educational care, favoring duplication... – we have discussed this enough. But we would especially celebrate that if 'nshagi accepted our goal at point 4. We are talking about a priority issue, and we think that precisely to help reduce the gap and early school drop-out, the goal should not be so much to empower schools of second opportunities, but for us what would be a priority would be to empower the same system already with these new opportunities. And this, therefore, for the Socialist Group, is to make the education system more flexible, especially in the secondary school stage, to equip, as I say, major opportunities and itineraries for the students I need and to improve above all the information, guidance, counselling services, above all the possibilities of the education system, vocational training and qualification. Today we know that these information systems, guidance and guidance, and follow-up are quite limited, they are much better; they only make it personal on a voluntary basis, and that, therefore, cannot be. Therefore, we understand that it is necessary to facilitate these pathways, labour, educational and training transitions, because this is crucial, and only in this way can we adapt better to the needs of many young people. On the subject of dues – nor is it a new subject – we found excessive interventionist in pedagogical autonomy the original wording, because they do not correspond to us, do not correspond to this Parliament, decide or regulate the extracurricular academic tasks. But, if you want, we do agree to promote a better coordination between teachers to streamline these tasks and that this is in line with educational and child and youth safety criteria. For what he does to text books, we had submitted an essay to recover from the assumptions a game sufficient for the reuse of text books and teaching material – this had already existed at the time of the government of understanding – and so as to encourage this reuse. But, ultimately, it was not accepted, and in any case, therefore, it does not seem to us badly what Ciutadans proposed to us, the prestec system, whenever it is respect the autonomy of the centers. We also appreciate the acceptance of our concern regarding the support of school transport services in order to guarantee, therefore, this equal opportunity of access, and, in particular, that the criteria of minimum distance, difficulties of access and income have been introduced. We know that the only criterion of the change in existing municipalities is not enough, it is better, it generates injustices, and, therefore, it can modify it as soon as possible, and it seems to us that the incorporation of the criteria of minimum distance and difficulty of access can ensure that progress is made in terms of justice. On the other hand, we seem to have some contributions from the Popular Party, in the sense of increasing the provision of specialized professionals to ensure the inclusion of the system or adequate attention to the student with special educational needs. And we would also have liked to see an increase in the number of staff managed to make it real, because, if there is no increase in the number of professional staff, let's say, in the number of staff managed, it will certainly remain in a desire, but totally in agreement that it is necessary to simplify these tasks and reduce them, if possible, to the extent that the quality of the student's teaching time remains. For what he does at the point of the barracks, we will abstain, because we do not just share the terms that are planted. There are centers with modules that in five years are in better condition than in two years. Therefore, what would be hot is to eliminate them. All of it, and that's why we're going to abstain. And finally, we will vote against the establishment of castle quotas and intervene in the linguistic projects of each centre and its educational project. Linguistic coexistence is not a problem at the centre, and where we have to focus is to ensure this bilingual or trilingual domain, if possible, at the end of secondary education. Finally, we will also vote against point 9, which has been introduced by the PP, which sounds to us: it sounds a lot new to us, it sounds like adding external assessments when these already exist. We understand that this can remain opportunities for students. We know that, moreover, it is already guaranteed that educational transitions can be guaranteed the knowledge and the minimum skills needed, and therefore we will vote against it. And, finally, I'll ask the president..., I'll take advantage of it to ask for a separate vote in points 9 and 13 in one block, and 12 in another block. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.41.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. To defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si, has the word Ms. Ramona Barrufet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.42.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, the truth is that she's a young man with a surprise, even though she's still surprised. I thought that with the title'school results, you, who are a teacher, would send us a young man where today we could talk about pedagogy, but that's not it. And, looking at the question you made, we were also hoping for other reasons of discussion. The good part of the movement is centered on demands on very concrete issues, above all on an increase in the number of teaching staff in different realities, and we observe that in all of the points that you urge the Government – also in those that the People's Party has accepted – there is a presuppositional impact, and I say that they are surprised, after you less, of all, the presupposition and there is no support. But, you see, today they actually recognize that it wasn't so bad, this assumption, because without him... well, without four assumptions like him, nothing you asked the young man about would be possible, but we are already accustomed to these incongruities. It's about an opportunistic movement, for one band, and opportunistic, for the other; therefore, opportunistic. There is a part of the motion that you raise after there have already been certain agreements, under the assumption, with associations and federations of municipalities, with unions... Therefore, what you propose to the young man in good hands will do, but not because we approve the young man or not today, but because of all these agreements, for all the consensus that has been reached. I won't deny that they're important, very important, but they're already late, because with these agreements, most of what they're asking for already exists. One hour or another, they're welcome to agree, even if they weren't, on the assumption. In the sense that we have indicated is in which we have presented our reviews. Some of us traded them. It is about fixing a rate lower than the set to groups of P3 or considering the increase of the 5,500 teachers to the whole system, or also in the angled language, also in primary and secondary. That's right, considering this pact with the Federation of Municipalities, with the Catalan Association of Municipalities, in the mixed tables, and above all in these bilateral meetings between the joints and the department, which we consider to be basic. He said "opportunistic movement for one band, opportunistic for the other because you make petitions that you know perfectly well that, now for now – in a future, surely yes – we do not have, of competitions, and, therefore, are presenting ourselves with faults. From their status of influence on the decisions of the Government of the Spanish State, which they have, it is when we expect you to commit to changing aspects of school transport regulations. We have not talked so many times about the rules of non-compulsory school transport – which today has not been explained in this way, here – that I will not add any more to it; you propose it on the set. Or ask for the transfer immediately from the call and manage the scholarships for post-compulsory lessons. More than 20 years ago, the government failed to comply with the law in the matter of scholarships. There is a ruling from the Constitutional Court – els sona, "the ruling from the Constitutional Court? – that the State is incomplete, and says that it is unwarranted that not all these managements have been passed on to the Generality at this time. The royal decree on which I am based speaks about the income of family assets and marks the amounts of scholarships. The Generality does not have any competence to determine these amounts or to complete the conditions of the arbitration, as would be provided for in Article 114.3 of the Statute. Also at point 8 ask to increase the scholarships for the baccalaureate and FP students. Who? The government of the generality? Whom are you to do this institution? So, look, I'm taking advantage of the influence and I'm asking the government of the Spanish State, which is who's to donate them. Also included in this royal decree is the financing of the activities of parents and mothers or you help them to finance the books, which you ask at point 6. In this same line, all activities of improvement and dissemination of vocational training, which apply at point 8. The fact that it is truly uplifting, speaking of school results, is the work of the teachers, of the educational community, all the spaces of debate and research that are being created, such as the "Now it's tomorrow, as reflection on pedagogical work, on pedagogical innovations. And, look, in the toasts to the sun that you raise, it may seem that you will be the ones who raise the cup higher – surely –, or the ones who will make it drain stronger – also surely, it is possible. But we are pleased to find space where pedagogy, research work and debate with the whole educational community and with the experts, because this is where the work is to be found in the future, and not in the sound and strides when we manifest politically or ideologically some proposals. What we have to do is do pedagogy. Thank you, President. Profit to ask for separate vote from points 1, 2, 8... No: 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.43.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Barrufet. Then, in order to fix his position, has the word "Jessica Albiach", of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.44.0	Thank you, President, and good morning to everyone. First of all, I wanted to thank Congresswoman Sonia Sierra for putting the table on a subject that concerns us, as it is, well, that the Catalan education system suspects in fairness and does not help to overcome class boundaries. Now, I must confess that in this young man we have gone through two very different phases: the first would be a species of cognitive dissonance, and the second, to detect a whole revolution in which, in the end, we are not very clear whether we are talking about school results or whether we are doing a re-record of everything we have seen so far in teaching. He explains to me: why do you say cognitive dissonance? So, because we see a supposed concern for fairness, segregation, equal opportunities, social inequality, and, in fact, for questioning, it became clear that the main determinant of school success is the socioeconomic situation and the relative capital of families, but clearly, we cannot make it clear that you do not make a clear and direct bet, as has already been said here, for public education, and that, moreover, your economic program is very far from putting real public policies on the line that tally the structural causes of inequality. And besides, you're giving support to the troika's retail government. You are a party that has voted against creating a list of tax havens when tax fraud, especially that of large multinationals, plunders public archives, and that means less money for public policies, among them education; that gives support to state assumptions that continue to punish Catalonia and that strengthen the power of the most corrupt party in Europe, or, more likely, that voted in this Parliament against a tax reform to redistribute income and that families that are less likely to have, and therefore more likely to suffer from education cuts, for example, pay less money. Not to mention, obviously, that they voted in favour of CETA ; that they are many friends of Macron, that has already announced a labor reform that will further precarious the situation of families in France... In short, there is a concern about a social and economic inequality that ends up affecting school outcomes, but, for another group, there is a lot of strong, redistributive, predisposing public policies that would help to end inequality as a structural element and that would have a positive impact on school outcomes, you bet for the free market, which only generates inequality and, moreover, gives our sovereignty to big companies. That said, and for what it does to the first points of the young man, of course we want to reduce rates, but in general, without stigmatizing the center according to its results; of course we want to increase the teaching staff in childhood and primary school, and the English teacher, but also secondary school. We agree that the schools of nine opportunities must have a recognition that they do not currently have. For what it does to school dues, we do not believe that it follows an excluded theme of coordination between teachers, but of revision of methodologies and model. For what he does to the free books, it seems correct to us a game in the line that proposes the motion, and not as they did in the proposal of the law, that left the door open to the patrons. And, of course, very much in favour of enhancing free school transportation and scholarships to baccalaureate and FP. Therefore, these measures, in general, seem good to us, but if we do not go to the end of the problem of inequality, which is an unjust economic system, supported in part by you, with this we have neither to begin with. This was the first phase we had experienced, but when the People's Party items arrived, and they saw the final result of the movement, so we entered a second phase. Because, of course, this turned, in the end, into a bunch of themes that dilute a little the final object of the motion. Return to the topic of external evidence, which, moreover, could give place to a new revalidation – it seems that there are no after, of the rebreed that generate throughout the educational community, inclusive experts. The theme of the barracks, which has already been discussed here and which we have approved, appears again; therefore, it counts on the things that we present again, because we can now lose them. And, of course, the linguistic issue again appears, which is all an obsession on the part of some groups and in which we can't agree..., we can't disagree any more. So, just to say that, despite the process that has been patenting the motion and that some of the final points generate an important rebuttal, we will vote in favour of some proposed measures, and ask for separate votes from points 1, 5, 9, 12 and 13. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.45.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the lady Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.46.0	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, thank all the proposals and the whole negotiating task. It was complicated, in the sense that there was to be a transaction between different parties, but I think that, in general, it has come to a great deal of agreement. For what she's doing to Mrs Vehi, it's that I think, for a change, they didn't listen to me when I spoke, because it's that at the moment I talked about Andalusia, for example. They didn't even read each other; they looked at her a little bit over and they put the public, and she's already, at all. Because I'm not talking about evidence, that's a theme of the many that I've accepted, because I've accepted reviews of all the games. And you know that, from the start, I wanted to accept your arguments, but there were the other parties... which, if I accepted them, did not vote and did not go out, the vote. With which, you may begin to argue that, if everyone is against what you propose, it's that they may not have very easy to reach consensus. My idea when presenting this motion was to reach the maximum possible consensus, as it has been, because we have accepted arguments from all parties, and try to get it to the maximum possible points. For what she does to Mrs. Niubó – and other spokespersons have also commented –, here is no talk at any time of revivals. To begin with, this is a theme that I accepted, this was not in the initial motion. And they're not new, they're external evidence, exactly how we already have Catalonia or how they can also be PISA's; but they're the same, which are homologable to all of Spain. It is a question of the transparency of the system, of one band, and of being able to copy the best practices of the autonomous communities with better results, of the other. I believe that precisely the advocates that the Catalan school is a model of success should be the first to claim this homologable evidence in order to prove that we are the best autonomous community. If they don't want these homologable tests, they may not be so convinced of their success model. Then, for what she does to Mrs. Barrufet, and Mrs. Albiach also commented on the title..., you always have to look for a title that is, well, as concrete as possible; in this case it was "educational results". We, all the measures we propose are dependent on what we interpret to have better educational results. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Then, I'm delighted – with all the love, Mrs. Barrufet – when they claim the Constitutional Court: the senar days claim the Constitutional Court, and the couples, are against it. Today, as it is a senator, it is up to the Constitutional Court to claim; tomorrow it is a couple, and no longer. Then, for what he does to teaching work, what he has to explain to me, if all my life I've been teaching... but I remember him. [[Funnel veils]] ... – and you too – but I remind you, Mrs Barrufet, that on Tuesday you voted against the appearance of Catalan teachers. Today, he's talking about giving the whole education community a voice, and on Tuesdays, without any explanation, they voted against...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.47.0	Mrs. Sierra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.48.0	...that he came to the Teaching Commission...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.49.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.50.0	...dozens. And finally, by the end, Mrs. Albiach, we have contributed to improving the assumptions, while others were making...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.51.0	It's just that I should just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.52.0	...a down by bus.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.53.0	It's that he's spent a lot of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.54.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.55.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. Mrs Vehi, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.56.0	For a separate vote and for allusions, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.57.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.58.0	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.59.0	Yeah, yeah. Thirty_seconds for allusions and to ask for separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.60.0	No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.61.0	I think they've asked for a separate vote from all the points, or so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.62.0	Ah, correct.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.63.0	...you don't get out of here anymore.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.64.0	Okay. Tell Mrs. Sierra that whether I read them or not, say, it's not her place, that we try to do a very rigorous job all the time. That, for another band, if we make a statement – that all centers must be public, because we firmly believe in public education – you do not accept it because you prefer that other groups approve of it, it is that you are more concerned to approve motions, add points and add weight to your list of approved motions than to make public policies fair for public education and quality than they actually fight against inequality. Thank you. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.65.0	Separate votes on points 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 were requested. I don't know if any of these points can be voted together. [[Pause.]] I understand you've asked for a vote... could it be a joint vote, 9th and 13th? Can you vote together, points 9 and 13? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] And points 10, 11 and 12? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, And points 1, 2 and 6? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, they say no. So, let's go vote all these points, and then the rest of the young lady, which seems to me to be two or three points left, huh? So, go, start voting. We'll vote for point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 52 votes to 62, with 19 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number two. The vote begins. Point number two... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] There is a tie, yes: 62 votes in favour, 62 against and 9 abstentions. You know that when this happens, the vote must be repeated. It has to be repeated again, and, in the end, if the empire persists, it declines. So, let's repeat the vote, let's re-vote point 2. The vote begins. It is the same result: 62 in favour, 62 against, and now 10 abstentions. Anyway, we have to wait. We need to call a vote, in case someone's missing, and we'll go back to voting, okay? [[Pause.]] Do we seem to repeat the vote without further delay? And in any case, if the empire persists again, the point will fall. But in any case, I have to ask the motioner, if it sounds like it, or... because, according to the Rules, we have to wait, we have to call again for a vote, and we have already done so. Does it look like that, Mrs. Sierra, you're the...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] So, let's repeat the vote. And we vote, we vote again, point number two. The vote begins. The emperor persists again: 62 to 62, with 10 abstentions. Anyway, down, that point. Let's now vote point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 113 votes in favour, against and 21 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number six. The vote begins. At point 6 we are again exactly the same as with point 2: 62 votes in favour, 62 against and 10 abstentions. Let us repeat the vote. The vote begins. We're voting point number six. Exactly the same result: 62 in favour, 62 against, 10 abstentions. Let's go back to calling for a vote. And anyway, I'm asking the same question I asked Mrs. Sierra before: if we vote again, why..., huh? [[Pause.]] So let us repeat the vote for the third time. The vote begins. Exactly the same result. So, anyway, this decline too. Then we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been approved by 62 votes in favour, against 72 abstentions– 62 votes in favour, against 72 abstentions. Then we'll vote... now we'll vote together on points 9 and 13. I said you could vote together, 9 and 13, huh? [[Pause.]] It is the two who seem to me that we have remained, the whole chamber, that can vote together. So, let's go vote points 9 and 13. The vote begins. Points 9 and 13 were rejected by 34 votes in favour, 99 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 10. The vote begins. In point 10, another draw: 62 in favour, 62 against and 10 abstentions. Let us repeat the vote. The vote on point 10 begins. Point 10_has been rejected by 62 votes to 63, with 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 11. The vote begins. Point 11, exactly like 10: 62 in favour, 62 against, 10 abstentions. Let us repeat the vote. Let's go back to voting point 11. The vote begins. Point 11_has been rejected by 62 votes to 63, with 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point 12. The vote begins. Point 12_has been rejected by 45 votes to 62, with 27 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Movement on School Outcomes has been approved by 124 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into food and school transport services]] [[302-00149/11]] The 15th item on the agenda is the following question to the Government on food and school transport services presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Miss Esther Niubó. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence, as always, because we have to continue with the plenary session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.66.0	Well, let's get started. Good morning again. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.67.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.68.0	Today we present this motion subsequent to the question to the Government about the services of food and school transportation with the main intention to urge the Government to update the two regulatory decrees of these services, which are from the year 96, and to make it open a participatory process and with the maximum consent of the educational community. We are talking about two clearly outdated decrees, which are prior to the LEC, and above all, which have not adapted to the nine social and educational demands. For what he does to the food service, this young man wants to recognize this service with a trunk service in the education system and to overcome the concept of supplementary provision of aid to schooling, which is what is backwards in the current decree. It is obvious that the beggar is not part of the lectual time, but of the educated time, and that is why we believe that he has to be integrated into the educational curriculum from childhood education to secondary school. To precisely ensure the quality of this educational service and to end the existing problems of mass education for school teachers, we propose to introduce maximum rates of students per professional for the performance of this service in the different educational stages that allow a good attention of the student and the realization of a pedagogical task during this time. Also ensure that the professionals who provide this service have a specific training and promote a better of their working conditions to make sure that the precariousness of this sector mediating the application of the corresponding agreement and also recognize the educational function that the monitors perform, among others – and this has been, therefore, a contribution from Catalonia Yes, it is possible. Similarly, in order to end up with discrimination between students of institutes who already apply the compacted day and who do not have the service of fooder neither, therefore, of scholarship nor of possible help, and others who have the gratuity of the service, regardless of the level of income, when, moreover, this happens after they do not have a public square in their municipality and are educated in concerted centres outside this one, what we want is to ensure that the criteria of income as a bar at the time of booking these fooder aids are introduced. We understand that, as it is regulated now, it can generate many perversities, some injustices that we believe necessary to modify, and we hope, therefore, to have the support of this Parliament. In particular, we also propose to provide specialized professionals so that the food and transport services are truly inclusive, so that they can properly serve the students with special educational needs. This is not happening right now; we all know cases of children who require specific attention during these services, which are not guaranteed for now, and therefore exclude them, and this cannot be if we believe in an inclusive education system. In this sense, we have also included two points to ensure an inclusive service for students with gluten-related disorders – with guarantees of safety, protocols, mandatory control mechanisms for processing, handling and serving, among others – but one of the main demands of the young person is to recover the service of a fooder at the secondary level to all the institutes facing the coming course. We cannot allow many students who receive food aid in the amount of 100_per_cent or 50_per_cent at the end of primary school, in their step to ESO – therefore, at twelve years old, for example – to lose help and pass directly to the hands of social workers, to eat in social workers. This has a clearly negative, stigmatizing impact on these children and their education, and we believe it is a priority to reverse this burden. We understand that it is not simple, but we demand that the Government take determined measures to resolve it, and, therefore, to recover the service of fooder to the institutes in the proper course. And finally, for what it does for school transport, we propose that we guarantee a sufficient amount in the proper budgetary exercise to ensure the support of this service there where it is necessary to ensure this equality of opportunities for access to education in certain territories – this is complicated, if we leave the metropolitan area, many times – and, especially, to change the current criteria to meet criteria of minimum distance, difficulties of access, income, and, therefore, not only of changes in municipalities. We have rejected many contributions translated into papers from different groups, but I will comment on them on the second return. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.69.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. Next, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word María José García Cuevas, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.70.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, the catering and school transport services fall within the universal and constitutional right to education, and guaranteeing universal access to education, as our laws say, means guaranteeing physical access to school for all pupils outside the income of their family or the distance to the centre allocated to them, which means that the Administration has an obligation to guarantee the school transport system that is necessary in each case. And we agree that the criteria of distance and income are more appropriate than the criterion of change of municipality, which can cause unfair and absurd situations, which from my group we have also denounced and tried to correct with proposals and resolutions for specific cases that we have been familiar with. And, also, access to education means being able to access all activities that occupy school time, also non-compulsory ones, if the family so desires, as is the school dining service. That is why it is also the responsibility of the Administration to ensure universal access to the school dining service, which must, of course, be of quality. And a quality dining room we believe implies the guarantee of complete and balanced menus, elaborated by nutritionists and cooked with ecological and natural products, and, of course, as the motion already says, guaranteeing attention to cases of specific food needs, such as gluten intolerance. In short, ensuring universal access to education implies an obligation on the part of the public authorities to remove any obstacle or conditionality that limits or prevents real, effective, equal access for all. To talk about guaranteeing universal access to any activity during the educational or school time of the students is to talk about equity, to avoid any hint of segregation; it is to talk about laying the foundations, already from the school, for a more just and equal society, because for that we pay taxes the citizens, and that is the obligation of the competent administration, as in this case is the Generalitat of Catalonia. Indeed, the two school transport and dining decrees are very old, and it is noteworthy that in twenty years no government has decided to review them, being a daily topic and of constant topicality. We understand that it is essential to adapt those already to the new social and family uses, also school, and we also believe that they should be approved with consensus, including contributions from the sectors involved, but above all from the families, because they have the right and also the obligation to care for the good of their children, and no administration should decide for them what suits their children. We would like to know the drafts of these new decrees before they are adopted, because we think that opacity is never positive, when things want to be done well and with consensus. In addition, we think that this is already an entry point on which many of us can agree, because the welfare and protection of minors I believe are a shared and truncated principle for many of us. I also believe that we can contribute from the various groups, and that is why we have introduced amendments to the motion so that the Government can facilitate the draft decree to the groups and we can share and comment on it in working meetings before its adoption and implementation. We agree that school transport and dining are part of educational time, even if it is not teaching time, and the Administration has at this time the same responsibility as in teaching, because the care and guardianship of minors at that time is their responsibility. As we have already said, and we reiterate, parents must be able to send their children to school calmly that they are going to receive care, training... ultimately, an adequate service. And we believe that all the activities that children carry out in their school time should be educational activities, coherent and framed in the educational project of the center, because it has been chosen by the parents. Therefore, if a centre is inclusive, all complementary services or activities outside of school hours should also be able to ensure the absolute inclusion of any student with special educational needs. And not only the dining room; transportation, if necessary, must have specialized support so that the child with special educational needs is integrated and cared for, and his or her parents can be reassured that this is so. That is also why we have introduced amendments. In short, we support the body of the motion presented to us by the PSC, and we share the points that we propose that we support: the urgency of updating the decrees on catering and school transport, setting deadlines for their approval and implementation; that Parliament's resolutions must be complied with, of course, for respect and democratic quality; that controls and penalties should be established for those who fail to comply with or degrade the provision of these services; that sufficient, specialized and trained resources should be guaranteed, including maximum student ratios per monitor; and that the compact day should not be used in any case where there is a need and demand as an excuse to close a school dining room. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.71.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Next, in order to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.72.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. In this plenary we have had two motions followed by education – which is always a pleasure for me – which we have just voted for, from Ciutadans, and this from the PSC; two motions which I consider to be, in a way, complementary, because the two have as their end, in one way or another, the fairness of the education system. From the outset, the initial motion presented by the PSC seemed good to us, for which we only introduced one, which has to do with the school beggars, and, finally, we have reached a compromise agreement, which I thank Mrs Niubó. It also seems to us as well as the rest of the House in general; that is why we would vote for it, except for the 7a, because it seems to us that it is very little..., inconcrete, and this 7a goes from a slogan. The rest of the House, so we'll vote for it, as I said. In the case of our young man, the one we have just seen, we have already seen that the topic was much broader and varied, which seems that someone did not like it, because we talked about different aspects, such as reducing the rates, enhancing the second-opportunity grades, reducing the dues and, above all, guaranteeing the free text books, such as they already have in other autonomous communities. On the other hand, the two motions share a point, which is the gratuitousness of school transport, and this transport... Now, as always, they say it's Madrid's fault, right? Because that's very good, it's very easy, it's an easy resource, but it all comes from a decree: the school transport had been free until Mrs. Rigau arrived with her details. If one family has to pay for school transportation and others do not, we have, from the start, a comparative weightage. Besides, having to pay for school transportation is a filter, because there are families that can pay for it and others can't. And that, besides being a burden on the family, as I said, is also a burden on these schools, and in this case I know very well what I'm talking about, because at the institute where I worked for eight years, a public institute in Rubí, J.V. Foix... It's an institute that is six kilometers away from the urban core, and when I started, in 2007, there were seven lines. They were always very full, and, in fact, people were left out, because, despite being a center that is stretched out of Rubí's urban core, it was a center with a very good reputation, but when it began to collect the transport, the license plate fell in half. And it's very sad to see as an educational project– here, as much as we can use the autonomy of centres and educational projects–..., as I say, it's very sad to see as an educational project comes together for an economic issue: not because families don't agree with what is done at that school, but because they can't afford school transportation. In the same situation is found the Joan Maragall, which is practically on the side of J. V. Foix ; the School of Bellaterra, which has entered as a project, and also the School Cal·lipolis in Vila-Seca. There are different cases that we have seen in the Education Commission. And, although these motions for resolutions, which we normally present all the opposition together, always come to fruition, the reality is that there is no solution to the problem, because we have another time in a PSC motion. Because the government of Juntes per el Si loves to complete the democratic mandates, which they say in "democratic mandates but that they are mandates to skip the law, but the democratic mandates of the truth of this Parliament, those who agree with the whole opposition, from the CUP to the PP, these democratic mandates do not like them so much. We want Catalonia to go to the front pages of the newspapers for its good educational level, and not because some policies want to skip the laws, which is what is happening right now. Another one of the themes of this young man is that of the groceries. A few weeks ago we presented a proposal on the subject to the Committee on Education, and since Junts per el Sí they have complained that another time we were talking about fooder scholarships. But if we hold it back in one place today, it's because another time it's not complete: the government of the generality rejects one or two requests for a food grant, and this is unacceptable to us. Another of the points of this young man, who I thank to the lady Niubó that she brings to her young man, is that of the beggars or, in reality, the lack of school beggars to secondary schools. What's the consequence of this? The consequence is smaller age, sometimes twelve-year-old creatures, sunbathing in a social fooder. I don't know about you, but the image of a twelve-year-old creature eating alone in a social feeder breaks my color. I don't think we can allow this, like society, to continue to happen. The government must stop its inaction and resolve this unacceptable situation. And I hope they start to put a thread in the needle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.73.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Grup Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Mr. Marc Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.74.0	Well, thank you, President. Counsellor, deputies, deputies, good morning. It seems to me that at the door of a new and possible agreement..., decree – no« agreement –, decree of womensadors that review what we have held so far, the motion that you present, Mrs Niubó, is opportune, even though it is only to place the focus on two of the most common and least well-closed elements of education from the Transition, such as the themes of womens and school transport. I mean, let's..., someone was asking: "Why have you been here for 20 years...? So, yes, because it's an issue we haven't solved, we haven't solved it. From the outset, it seems reasonable to us, the proposals you make, and what we have tried to do is to complete them with some element that seems to us that could improve the end result of this young man. And that's why we've been trying to put a few themes on these items that, as I said, they've been grinning long ago. There will be four: one, equal opportunities in access; another, consideration of the educational space of both the fooder and transport; professionalization and job guarantees of workers and workers; and, finally, responsibility for managing these services. The equal opportunity in access – recordin-ho, please – as the concept, is located at LOGSE for the first time, which is the first democratic education law from the dictatorship – recordin-ho, eh? And Catalonia is revalidated, although with a few small touches, for the same LEC. And, sometimes, we don't forget each other. And the concept, this concept of equal opportunity in access, is to say that, if education is a universal right, that administration is easy to place in the student's place of residence, and if that is not possible for reasons of the same administration and that student is to move, so that it provides for compensatory measures; in this case, it makes it easier for him to move and to eat. The performance inherent in this right is independent of its economic and family situation. It's a right. It's true that there are two elements that have been added since it was legislated. The first, whether or not the dividing line has a right to this service, is placed by the legislator in the municipality of residence, and probably not in the actual distance to the school square. And this – we have not talked about – has generated a multitude of hardships, because our municipalities are often neither compact nor compact. And there are actually inconceivable situations, but they can be solved easily, and they have to be solved, adding this concept of right-to-right distance to the performance; therefore, making a sum. And second, that in the current economic crisis situation, the compensation of the lack of opportunity in access is not enough, with this generalist concept, but that we should add a compensation for economic reasons to that student who needs it most, so that we do not get used to saying scholarships and that we just talk. But there are two concepts that are not replaceable – that is, do we change the universal right for scholarships to the most needy? No, because there is this danger – but one must join the other, if we really want to respect the initial principle of equal opportunities. The second element is the consideration that it serves as an educational space that is more effectively integrated into each centre's own educational project. You are served that each time they have been occupying more importance. Therefore, we cannot consider it as a simple complementary service that feeds and transports. This is done in the framework of a shared education project with proper coordination and, logically, with the right routes and controls. And this brings us to the third point: the staff up to this service must also have the proper professional consideration, and, therefore, must be regulated by the corresponding agreement, which binds them to the relevant working conditions, and must be considered personal educator. I mean, not all staff can be work and service, and spread it out. Finally, and precisely because of this, I would like to think seriously – and here we have made a deal that has not yet been accepted – the step that the incumbent of the service, which is the Department of Education, and, therefore, by extension, the same center, did at the time of passing the management to the district councils. In some cases it has worked perfectly, if we take into account aspects such as the scale economy; but if we take into account the quality of the service, in other cases there has been an obstacle, and, in some places, an element of pressure for those centers that have wanted to develop suitable projects and integrate in the educational project the food service. Therefore, the new decree should provide for the possible regulation of these particular options of each center to improve the management of the fooder. Finally, despite the fact that the young man is a generalist, we have presented a message to demand the compliment of a concrete resolution on transport, that of the Bellaterra School, because, as unfortunately has happened other times, the same department has already stated that it did not intend to complete it, and this is always a long one. In any case, we will vote in favour of the complete motion, because it seems right to us and it seems to us that it has been perfectly defined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.75.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Next, in order to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si, has the word Ms. Anna Simó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.76.0	Thank you, President. The object of the motion, as Mrs. Niubó said, is to initiate a participatory process to amend the two decrees and seek the maximum consensus. In fact, the process has been open for some time now – I knew that then, when he presented the inquiry, as I know now – and the government's intention is to have the highest possible consensus. In fact, the Councillor in the inquiry said that they had reached parliamentary agreements by 2014 and began to work on the amendment of the two decrees, which are from year 96. There is a working group on the march, as he also said, with regional councils, municipal associations, families, organizations of the sector, with the aim of agreeing a model that gives security, that gives quality, that brings equity, that brings consistency to the model and an adequate cost to families. We also know, and so we've been talking to him these past few days, that in a_me to close, this participative process that is going to end the department, with a draft decree agreed, and to start all the administrative procedure that follows all the decrees in government. She also insisted, the Counsellor, and we believe that it is important to stress, that the new decree must gather all the new criteria of public contract law, with special attention to social issues, social contract and public transparency, so that it can ensure traceability in the contract by transparency and security for all parties. Therefore, the highest consensus is a priority, as I said and as the first point of the motion says. And that's why it's important to point out that some of our group's negative votes are precisely because they mandate the government in a sense on which there will be no consensus, in a sense that does not propitiate consensus, like point 15, is to say, that each center decides the model of manager. The government bets that there's always family participation, management that I run, and so did the councilwoman in the interrogation. Another thing is to get into the participatory debate of the householder's decree that each center decides the model of the householder's management, when working with local councils, with municipal associations, a long-term and long-term participatory process. We think that this, fostering consensus, so it's not exactly, at a point where the participatory process is already closing. In addition, account must be taken of the differences between municipalities. There are approaches to participation in basic terms for the new householder's decree that the Government shares and that can fit into the participatory process, and with the utmost consensus that it is working; so we will vote in favour of points 1, 3, 3a, 4, 6, 9, 10a, 11, 12 and 13. Now, we had a deal closed for point 7 that we don't understand how it turned out, finally. It is to say, to introduce in the new decree of fooder that, when it is not possible to guarantee a free school place in the municipality of residence of the student in the rural area, the Administration guarantees it in a municipality so that the aids to cover expenses are copper in accordance with Article 6.3 of the LEC – it is to say, render and distance –, correct, at the same time as we ask that the LOE is modified in the gratuitous forecast for changing municipalities. That, in the end, was not accepted. We share that no one is excluded from the food service for economic reasons, but we do not understand or share the difference they set out in point 7, that if the Administration grants you a place outside the municipality because there is no offer in the municipality of residence, if they grant you a place of public title you do not introduce criteria of income, but if the Administration grants you a place for concerted title you introduce criteria of income. We don't understand that. Because, in any case, they could have said "depending on whether the day is compacted or not. It could have been a criteria, but the criteria... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, that's not said here. What is said is that, if it is agreed, there must be income criteria; if it is public, there must be no income criteria. We think that this does not fit in with any type of existing law, instead – instead – the differentiation between holders in the centres of the educational services of Catalonia in the award of help from the householder. It doesn't fit; it's more, contradicts the current law. We also had a transaction at point 10, because the provision of specialized professionals to the food service..., were included, but we were asked to be three months from now – three months from now. Do we have to make a change when there's still no decree? That's impossible, and they know it. The transaction said: "Before the beginning of the 18-19 course, we will have profiled it. So, no. Or point 13: "Opening all secondary school workers – there is no such thing, because in the majority there are canteens –" three months from now. They know that this can't be, that there are approved alternatives in the resolution of the Social Emergencies Plenary, that it's what we're looking for, and that they're following. Or follow-up alternatives between Education and local and local social services because of the students who are now taking primary education and who have scholarships in the cent_per_cent is taking a follow-up first of ESO, the course coming, obviously. But no, "to open up all the beggars, and, more importantly, all the alternatives of canteen adequacy. For what it does to transport, adapt it to LEC. And since I don't have time, I won't continue, but to say that this week the necessary public information begins to start making the new transport decree. President, they call for a separate vote on points 5b, 7, 10, 13 and 15 for one band, and 8 for another. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.77.0	Thank you, Mrs. Simó. Then, to fix his position, has the word the lady Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.78.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Very briefly, I don't think – or perhaps yes – we spend five minutes. In fact, we intended to give support to this young man. He responded to that that FAPAC had asked for a while ago, or there was a little bit left in myths, but that FAPAC, the one there, understood that it was a minimum to start working and that, therefore, it was necessary to donate-support it. I also respond to a motion from the last legislature that we have already seen that there has also been at some point of remembering and recovering, such as when in the bid or when in the Maresme-Eastern Vallès agreement was not followed what in the motion from the last legislature had been approved. Finally, he managed to put a stop to that landmark agreement to start again, and, therefore, to collect and incorporate AMPA, schools, etc., to build a necessary project on the subject of school teachers. And, therefore, we, in this sense, will give support to the great majority of the young people and abstain in two points which I shall try to explain briefly. But we have one of the elements that we would have put on the table, taking advantage of the fact that there is the issue of the decree of school teachers that is on the table, that is the great promise of many governments, in which everyone talks about changing the decree of school teachers but then nothing happens and we continue to go on again with the same decree..., there are two things. One, to begin with, that we make it clear that school teachers have also become a focus of political corruption. We have the case, for example, of the County Council of the Jungle, but we find others, and also passed to Euskadi – one of the few cases known to Euskadi, of GNP, also related to themes of school teachers. It's a theme that's on the table. Therefore, I want to say that we also have to analyse it with detention, both in the decree and when we work on the subject of tenders. And it's just that right now the school maid service that we have would be a little like the government decides and AMPAs manage. But we could say this in another way: the government does what is more interesting or what interests it more, what it is to decide, and AMPAs do the unfortunate part, because, on the basis of what they do not share, the vast majority of times, they have to manage the middle, as they can, the school children. Or, say it another way, we could also say... if we talked, instead of school beggars, land, we'd say the government makes APIs, right? And he is, but he didn't intervene any more. We understand that, in this sense, we need to address the issue of school teachers, bearing in mind that food in the educational sphere is a right, and it is a right that we can guarantee and work here. So, that's why, based on this, we give support to the young man. And we believe that we need to work in line to address the issue of equal opportunities guarantee, but also to shield clearly how bids are made and who are the social criteria and who are the criteria not only for traceability of the contract, but also for traceability of the food we are giving to the schools. And I must, in this sense, work on it. But let us be clear that it is not a matter of delegating everything to the autonomy of the management of educational centres, because, as a basic right, the food in the educational sphere, it is also part of planning in public policies. And here it is not a matter of delegating it absolutely everything in the autonomy of the management of the centers, but that there is a good combination between planning – and, therefore, also, that in this decree it is taken into account all this–..., and also that in the centers it is taken into account the local reality to complement or to work for what it does to the food, as also in the topic of transport. I would leave it here this day, that we would call a separate vote from point 7 and point 15, that we support the globality of the feeling of the young man, but at these two points we will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.79.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. Then, in order to pronounce on the papers, has the word "señor Niubó".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.80.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor – who had not greeted him before –..., thank the disposition of all the spokespersons, who, well, have expressed, therefore, their positions. Actually, the reviews we've rejected, we think they're much better. I would especially like to thank Catalonia Yes it may have incorporated, therefore, the theme of inspection and quality control of menus; the armoring of the guarantee of equal opportunities in general access, right? , to guarantee this service in general, to shield this outside of the criteria of distance and access that were already incorporated; to introduce an element that we have approved in a resolution, but that, obviously, the Government has said that it would no longer complement, that is to guarantee public school transportation to the School of Bellaterra – I think it is justice that we recover it here. Recognize, too, the educational function of monitors. And that last point, that they want, therefore, that we plant, in the proper decree, to equip the educational centers of autonomy to decide the model of management that they want..., in this sense, I think it is good not to close, right? : in some cases they would prefer to manage it directly, in some cases they would prefer the district council to follow, and, therefore, we do not tank the door. The families, obviously, could participate in this decision at the centre level, but what we do, precisely, is that the centres are the ones that were chosen for this, that were chosen for it, and that, therefore, exercised their autonomy. In Ciutadans, to thank them for the thought they have raised, which has also allowed us to make it possible, therefore, to incorporate in the debate on the hourly reform the possibility of advancing the hourly mealtime. We think it's important, that, in high school. To the People's Party, therefore, its contribution to guarantee the inclusiveness of the system, also in the transport service, and, moreover, that we may know these decrees, this proposal, before it is approved. And at the CUP, who didn't give me any tests, but... say we share the bad reflex, don't we? and that, therefore, it is important to introduce control and oversight mechanisms for regulatory regulation – this is what we introduce at point 4 – and that, therefore, we can sanction the irregularities and incompliments that can be produced. And now... [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Wow! Well, very, very hasty. Together for the Yes: really, despite the will and, well, the effort of Congresswoman Simó, I think it is a matter of lack of political will, right? In the topic of inclusiveness it is very obvious. You don't want to..., have denied that we can vote for the possibility that you will join, in the new decree of attendance of the student, the decree of inclusive, the inclusion of the servants of fooder, of lleure and also of zero-three. That's what they denied. Therefore, it must not be true, that they really want some inclusive services, because, if not, we would vote for them today and they would have approved. So that's not true anymore. And, on the other hand, therefore, his difficulty, his lack of willingness to recover the services of fooder in secondary. We think that this is a flagrant issue of injustice. Let's hope that if we approve today...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.81.0	Mrs. Niubó...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.82.0	...the compleixin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.83.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.84.0	I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. So, well, I'll leave it there. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.85.0	Thank you, Mrs. Niubó. [[Greetings.]] Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. [[Long break.]] A separate vote was requested from points 5b, 7, 8, 10, 13 and 15: 5b, 7, 10, 13 and 15, who said that they could go together, and then 8 separately. But as 7 and 15 were also asked, they could vote together, if they seem to do the blocks of 7 and 15, for one band; 5 ter, 10 and 13, for another, and 8 for another. And then the rest of the young man. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, we'll start by voting points 5 ter, 10 and 13. The vote begins. Points were approved by 71 votes to 62, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 7 and 15. The vote begins. Points were approved by 63 votes to 62, with 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been approved by 72 votes in favour, against and 62 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Ministry on Catering and School Transport has been approved by 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into a university for everyone and without precariousness]] [[302-0150/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for an inquiry to the Government about a university for everyone and without prejudice, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is. To expose her, Mr. Joan Giner has the word. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, they already know that they are required whenever they are in a hurry and in silence so that we can continue with the plenary session. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.86.0	Well, good morning to everyone. MPs, MPs, President, the people who are seeing us through the Parliament Channel, who are seen to be a lot, today... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.87.0	Congressman, I hope they're gone, because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.88.0	Come on, go.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.89.0	I see they're talking a lot, huh? Excuse me. Please, be quiet. Now. I can go on now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.90.0	Well, thank you very much. We're back here talking about universities. That, like the news, is already a positive thing. We have put or are trying to put the university on the political agenda of this government. That is why we are giving battle here, to Parliament, and also outside, to the streets. And it's important that, by the way, we move on and go on to create one of our systems, the university system, which is a gem of this country and which we have to work together. We bring a young man who touches various points, various whites, and who has, above all, tried to improve concrete aspects after the compromise of reduction of materials that we agreed to the Law of Accompaniment. The first point that we present is a recognition of student struggles and union struggles that have occurred these last months and weeks – waves of teachers, of PDI, waves of students – that have shown that the struggle is the way, that this is how the rights are achieved and that this is how we can begin to win victories. And the first victory I want to mention today is the compromise not to apply Royal Decree 14/2012, which basically can cause the University of Barcelona to be joined by fifty-one hundred professors associated with the university. That is to say, we are talking about the flight of talent, we are talking about the flight of brains; therefore, what we cannot do is leave out, in the street, drawings and drawings of doctoral and postdoctoral students that can be the future of this country. And this is a first victory, because today we compromise here, most of the groups in the chamber, not to apply or leave no effect on this royal decree. And, therefore, we're putting the universities in place so that they don't apply it. The solution to the teacher's precariousness is not more accompaniment, it is not changing teaching hours to reduce staff, years against, it is stability. And that's why we may need to aim a little higher today, and we need to tell the PP's lords that we don't want to – we don't want to – keep moving towards staff stability. And we're talking about a thing as simple and as technical as the repositioning rate, a repositioning rate that was zero_per_cent, that's to say, that it wouldn't let this staff renew: everyone who is retired or caused low could not be renewed. This caused a tap and caused rapid aging in universities. Now it's 100 percent, but that doesn't mean it's over. We want this repositioning fee not to be... and, in any case, to be followed by the universities, in their Chapter I, that can decide what they do or what they don't do with their staff. Today we have also given one more step of hearing about it not the fairies, but the tuition compensations. We commit ourselves, this chamber, that the journey of equity and all the scholarships that may be there is done automatically, it is done in a single window, it is done in a _only journey at the time of registration. That is to say, any student who is going to enroll at a certain time may click: "I want to apply for a scholarship and attach the necessary tax data to it to do so. Now we have a 60_percent of students who have a Equity scholarship or who enjoy a Equity scholarship, and the idea is that the 100_percent of the students will ask or apply this tuition compensation. Because, let's remember, Equity scholarships are not fellowships, they're tuition compensations. And, if they're registration compensation, we'd have to enjoy them all and give them the maximum facilities so that's it. So another good news. The other good news is that we're opening another obrimimel we need to modify the trams, which seemed to have closed, with the bass we'd given. The other point is a reaction point, reacting in the sense that the other day we were invited to the Secretary of Universities, parliamentary groups, and we saw how the government wanted to apply the law of law, the downside, approved with the Law of Accompanying. And we found ourselves a goal, a goal of these that... in the end, we didn't lower tram 1 and tram 2 by 30_per_cent, as is the accompanying Law, but we lowered them by 15 and 12.5_per_cent. This... when someone makes an agreement, they have to complete it, it's good to do, and so we claim, last but not least, and we hope that so, that actually Tram 1 and Tram 2 have a 70_per_cent enrollment compensation, and that families with less than forty_000_euros will pay only between three hundred and five hundred_euros of their enrollment, which makes it possible for these families. We asked the CIC to open the master's debate. There can be no enabling masters, above all right, with very few places, when there are many places of degree in the universities: three hundred places of degree in the university, only forty in the right master. This causes the students to end up in private or in the UOC, and we have to solve this, and the CIC has to open this debate. And, lastly, accepting the papers of the Candidature for Popular Unity, a rally to the campaign« There are 27 and more: there have been twenty-five students, a teacher and a worker of the Autonomous University who have been accused of up to thirty years in prison, who ask them for a million euros for damages. The same rector said that this was illogical, that the prosecution was acting with a repressive character before the student movement. We consider this to be a coercion to freedom of speech and student movement and to teacher movement, and therefore we demand that Parliament condemn or at least repudiate this prosecution action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.91.0	Thank you, Mr. Giner. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.92.0	Thank you, President. We want to thank Joan Giner for getting back to college. The day that Congressman Giner stops claiming the tax and the university fees will no longer be the same, and therefore it is clear that it is consubstantial to you. Two years ago you were at the Civic Square, returning the banner, against the Bolony Plate, against taxes, and something tells me that with the latest moves and university protests, ever since the distance, something you also had to see. But you've come out; you've come out because you didn't have to rule. Because some of those who were with you at the Civic Square, against Bolonya and against taxes, have then voted the assumptions that leave Spain's most expensive taxes. So you didn't have to rule and you got lucky. And even more, there are some who have voted for the assumptions while their youth organizations stormed the Secretariat of Universities, which has a lot of merit, because it is no longer revolutionary gymnastics, it is revolutionary contortion, which consists in voting for the assumptions and going to assault its own that proposes the same assumptions. If you have to recognize coherence, in any case, and also the achievement of some successes, even though it is not worthy of your exclusion, it is true that we are adopting things to improve student taxes and university life. We share a part of the young lady, and it seems to me that we're the only ones... and I find it hard, this convergent turn that you're having. We share and maintain what we approved of this chamber, the vast majority, which is to lower all taxes by a 30_per_cent, and you, in the end, have bought the speech from Congressman Castellà, that is, only the download on one side and take equity scholarships, etc. We want to lower all the trams. Moreover, this is what the students ask for in their mobilizations, mobilizations that you have proposed yourself. I suppose when you talk about the "legitimate demands," in the first point, you mean this, to lower the prices by 30_per_cent. So, this was our goal, which is not incompatible with progressively expanding the fellowships and which you have not accepted. Then, one of the other points that is dealt with here is that of the repeal of Royal Decree 14/2012. And we've got to figure it out, we've got to agree. There are some who talk about the PP-Poverty clamp... that's not why, huh? But we agree on this point. In fact, the government is already applying it. The Government of Spain is already, in fact, repealing the Royal Decree 14/2012: we have agreed with the unions, with the UGT, with the Workers Commissions, with the superior council..., with the CSIC, the reduction of the cent_per_cent of the tax that, and, therefore, the full repositioning of the places, and the reduction in three years of 90_per_cent of the precariousness. That's what we've agreed with the unions. I don't know; if you think the unions are all too much, then you have to talk to them, but we have come to this agreement. And this document that has proved to be not a document for a photo, it is not a national pact of these that so much likes to make in Catalonia, a pact for nothing, but it is a document with concrete proposals, with the repositioning of a hundred_per_cent of the faculty, and which later came to fruition with the Royal Decree 6/2017. Then there's an episcopal resonant in his young lady. The other day the Catalan Bishops' Conference spoke of the "legitimate demands; therefore, you also took the same concept and spoke of listening to the legitimate demands of the student. We shall vote in favour. We would have liked it better if you had added a point that you said "when they are peaceful and respectful." Because what can't happen again is that the secretary of universities is being targeted and threatened with death, and what can't happen again, and I've experienced it in the first person, is that the young people of the Catalan Civil Society are being assaulted and suffering ideologically at the Autonomous campus. There's no room for "tunnels." Look, democrats, you've already made them know the potential side of the smile revolution, but now let them live, let them defend what they believe and let them work quietly. Thank you that those who propose freedom of expression follow those who prevent real freedom of expression at university. He said, at the beginning of the intervention, that Mr Giner would no longer be the same when he stopped claiming the tax rebate. You keep feeling the same, you keep claiming it, but I don't know why you're putting on a PSC air, smoothing the motions and finally coming to an agreement with the government. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.93.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Then, to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr. David Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.94.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, many Catalan students today have to be thinking about how to pay the tuition for the year coming; they have to be thinking if they have to work in the summer, if they have to ask for some loan, if they have to ask for money from a family member. And we, therefore, share this concern. But do you know what, too, worries us, and a lot? That the government does not comply with the motions approved in this Parliament. They are always talking about a democratic mandate; in fact, they are only talking about a democratic mandate, but the rest of them, about the rest of the democratic mandates that are approved here in Parliament, do not forget, do not interest them, but they are also mandates that must be fulfilled. That's why we're waiting for you to pay taxes to all the students, to all the students, in a 30_per_cent, as approved in this Parliament. And I will read literally what was approved: « Reversal for the 2016-2017 course the university preus pujada that has realized the Generalitat since the year 2011, beginning with a reduction of 30_per_cent in university taxes for the 2016-2017 course. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, what we believe is that you should stop marinating the loss and complete the resolutions of this Parliament. We do not comply – it has already been said, on the part of Fernando – with being the autonomous community that has the highest university taxes of all Spain, which triples including those of some autonomous communities. It's unfair to our students, and we won't stop claiming what we think it should be. The government, in the end, has a lot of good words, but the reality is that it hasn't gotten into anything yet. A year ago, in fact, we asked for an effective plan and a coordinated plan with the university community, and a year later – a year later – the members of this educational pact will still be summoned. Therefore, good words, but little concreteness. There's a problem with funding for Catalan universities, and that's not just what Citizens say, that's also what different rectors of the universities we have in Catalonia say. In fact, I'm sure you've seen the article that came out in a newspaper last week, where there were different statements from some of these rectors. And that, therefore, involves a series of problems; it involves a series of problems with staff, it involves a series of problems with infrastructure and also obviously with the student. If we want to maintain the excellence we have, we need to change the direction and we need to update and adapt our model. While you, from the government, leave the chair empty at the conference of presidents, which is where a better financing system is called for, and we, in Catalonia, are still standing still, without giving any answers. While you are spending money on repeating a new 9-N or making conferences and monologues from the world, there are many problems that we could be solving if we use the available tools, which we have, to claim our needs. Therefore, in order to solve the problems, what we have to achieve is to put all the senses in this direction, and, unfortunately, the Government has all the senses placed in a career that has not come out. With regard to the papers presented for our group, we have stood still in what we have always defended, from Citizens. We don't want to move from where we've always been, which is at the bottom of 30 percent of the price of all college students, and that's the goal. It is necessary to review the accreditation criteria of the AQU in order to adapt them to the specifications of the degrees. And we also want measures to be put in place not to hold the university professorship contracted as false associates. And, finally, what we are also demanding from our discussions – and we deeply regret that the proposed group has not accepted them – is that it is guaranteeing a democratic pillar, that it is guaranteeing a fundamental right such as freedom of expression, unfortunately violated by some existing groups in universities, as we have seen in the last few days – as the Catalan Civil Society group has been attacked and intimidated. And we also regret that these acts have not been condemned with sufficient force on the part of some direction of the university community. We believe, from Citizens, that if we lose the value of freedom of expression, the university will lose an essential part, such as that of debate, dialogue and knowledge. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.95.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mejía. Then, in order to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Sí, has the word Mr Antoni Castellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.96.0	Yes, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, despite some interventions that have preceded me, I believe that today is a good news again... We are going to start this legislature with legitimates, probably, discrepancies in positions that respect university policy, and I believe that today, with the matter of cadascú, we approve of a consensus criteria that is rather broad. You don't have to be full-blown, but, Mr. Sanchez... I already understand that the PP isn't used to finding consensus and that it's all white or black, and that, therefore, if someone is capable of transversality and compromise, then that bothers you, huh? But I think it's good news, the effort we've all been able to make to get closer to positions, and I think it can be a good prelude to how the national pact evolves for the university. In the short time that we have..., there are three blocks, basically, and some point I want to make about what we're talking about today: raising, teaching policy. And, in fact, the government has been working in this sense since 2011. From 2011 onwards, because at the hardest time of the presupposition restriction, in the hardest of all, when in all administrations and in all areas, therefore, the criterion was zero repositioning, is when the Serra Húnter programme was approved. Therefore, the Government's criteria have always been to promote teaching policy, and this was not done – it was done. And from here on, the struggle of the present government still respects some of the competences of Madrid, which are obtuse to respect what the NIF of a teacher means, confound it with the wage mass..., because we can all agree on what should be the wage mass limit, but let the university decide how to move its human capital. The second block, and very high, is..., is that now I meant "it's the students and priests," and I would say "it's the post-truth, now that it's fashionable, that's the post-truth. Now it turns out the post-truth, huh? "Objective facts do not matter, so it is the slogan... Most of this Parliament we have probably come to the agreement of an objective fact, that the price system is for income, and then we may or may not agree on which are the bonuses, and in which are the differences, and which can be much more progressive. In fact, they are policies that are advancing in many administrations. In fact, the Barcelona Assembly is using social pricing as a pricing policy. But both the People's Party and Ciutadans are simply denying the reality. I suppose it doesn't have to be ignorance. When the two Members come here, in their parliamentary office, and say the priests, of course, I must ask: what of the priests? What's the income level? , and it's still in the "prius..., if it's not – that it's probably also that, because, of course, it's not disconnection – that they're against – and it's probably consistent – a social pricing system. But it's logical. You, probably defending equal treatment for everyone... is an absolutely liberal policy. And a whole series of groups in this room that we agree, not by motion, by law, by accompanying law, is social pricing. I understand that you are against it, but it is not surprising, Mr. Sanchez, if we agree with the Lord... Clearly, Mr. Giner is not liberal, he is not a neoliberal, and Together for Yes we are neither neoliberal. Sure there's some liberal, huh? But most of us are not neoliberals. [[remorse of the voice]] , and exactly..., with the rest of the groups of this chamber voting on this. So, listen'm, if it's a question of models..., but do it with objective facts – do it with objective facts –: social pricing, or not, and you're in the no. We will also vote in favour of a point that may seem delicate. It's a point that the proposed group has traded with the CUP, and it's respect for these twenty-five students. We believe in freedom of speech and expression. We also believe that this is to be done with freedom and that it is to be done without violating anyone, but pains of thirteen years and a million euros seem absolutely excessive to us, and therefore we expressed our concern. And, lastly – no reference has been made – we will support a proposal from the Socialist Group. Congresswoman Romero, I think we're about to, uh... the most uplifting we're gonna do in this room today. If anything is excellent in this country they are the Search Centers and the ICREA program. Search Centers accumulate 55_percent of the ERCs in Catalonia. They are a public institution that, on a part of public assumption, the one we possess, triples the one they capture. It doesn't go anywhere in the Administration, and this needs model protection. There was consensus in this sense, and today we ratify a consensus to protect one of the areas that differentiate us and that are one of the reasons and engines of search success in our country. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.97.0	Thank you, Mr. Castellà. Next, in order to defend the papers presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the word Ms.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.98.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. See if I have enough time to say so many things I want to say. In the first place, I wanted to thank Joan Giner for his work on this young man. It's true, to bring back a subject that concerns us... I think we carry some time that the universities are on the political agenda, or like at least some of us put them on the political agenda, and I think Joan is an example of that. And he also wanted to congratulate you on the deal, didn't he? , for his ability to come to terms. Being left-handed, Mr. Sánchez Costa, doesn't mean you can't make a deal. You can be left-handed, hold your positions and try to improve the government's policies. In fact, this is one of the tasks of the opposition: to condition the government with its policies. And, therefore, I believe that what we did in the debate on assumptions and in the Bill of Measures, and what we do in this case, is just condition the government. And, therefore, it is the work that surrounds us. And I, therefore, in this sense, would like to thank Joan and Catalonia Yes, it is I can do this job. And I'm telling you this because sometimes we seem to be oblivious to things, or we're not consistent, but, Mr. Sánchez Costa, it's three months ago that we approved a deal that all the groups in this chamber voted in which we asked for the 30_percent reduction of trams 1 and 2 of the riding schools, because, somehow, we saw that, by adopting motions where we asked for 30_percent of the lower taxes, which were approved in joint PCS and other groups, the government did not do it. And we said, "Well, let's follow a little more possible. That is approved; that is to say, it is approved, the reduction of 30_percent of taxes. It's approved, and in any case, so the government doesn't apply it. We have to ask him why he doesn't prioritize this. And what we're doing is saying, "Well, then, we're making a plan B and we're making this proposal, which we're all voting for, is saying that we're all gonna have to be a little consistent, because if every time the motions arrive, we're not... I think coherence is also a value, in politics. And so we all approved that deal, and now what we're doing is closing it down. Because the price decree will be passed before Sant Joan and what we want is that there will be this downsizing on trams 1 and 2, which will affect many students in Catalonia, who will have an important downsizing. And, besides, I want to make a parenthesis here. I also want to thank the department – the counselor and the secretary general of universities – for always the deal you have with the deputies, because a few days ago we met in the department, there were two hours and we were working on this price decree and the trams. And I think that's nice, too. Not everyone does it in this government, and I also believe that this transparency and these wills to agree and complete what has been approved, in this case, to the premise and to the Law of Measures, so it must be possible to say. We, the PSC, have submitted a number of papers. I would like to thank Mr. Giner, therefore, for having accepted them; most of them are accepted or traded and some of them are in the morning, that is to say, we do not change the content. Yes, it is true that in fact we are one of the important ones, that the Member of Parliament Castellà was commenting on it now, which is what makes reference to the Cerca centres. Here we probably took care of everyone, in the law of assumptions, and I think we're working on it today. The Search Centers, our researchers, our search model, need agility and autonomy, need to be flexible, need to have the capacity to decide if today they create a spin-off, come some participations or include participations from another. And so, this agility in deciding things can't wait for a government agreement from the Generality, and what we're doing here is allowing that. Many researchers come to Catalonia not because of what we pay for, because unfortunately they are not the highest in the system, but they are, for example, because of that, aren't they? , for our research capacity, also for our flexibility in instruments, and we have to keep it and preserve it. And, therefore, the thought we are making in this line, in order to be able, therefore, to maintain and preserve this model that is necessary to keep us in these levels of excellence in the field of research. And I'm going to spend this last minute with Mr. Sánchez Costa and also a little time with Mr. Mejía, I mean, the PP and Ciutadans. Mirin, I'm having a hard time with this double game, this double speech we sometimes have. Miri, the general assumptions of the 2017 Summer were approved yesterday. Listen'm: reduction of university staff, a 3.36_per_cent, taking into account that the 1_per_cent of the IPC is higher; that is, the 1_per_cent of the IPC is higher than the 3.36_per_cent of the university staff. Redeem 4.85_per_cent of personnel in research and research. Redeem the burrows in 32 million. There is no transfer of competitions to scholarships, something that constantly demands this Parliament. There is no repositioning in basses and retirements as close as possible to make the shoal that our universities need. Listen to me, and now the last one, huh? Communicat d'UGT – to deny it to you –: "In addition, and it is further proof of the State Government's disinterest in public universities, these have been excluded in the recent agreement for the improvement of public employment as regards the stabilization of its staff in a situation of greater precariousness. I mean, in this agreement, the universities didn't get away. Mr. Sánchez Costa, you can't come and tell us that the government works for the universities, that it improves their conditions, because it's not doing it. And what you can't do is come here to say that the government of the generality does it and then you do the opposite. A little more coherence I think would go very well, to which we dedicate ourselves to politics, in order to have more credibility towards the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.99.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed, has the word of Mr. Albert Botran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.100.0	Well, thank you, President. Members, Members, we will vote in favour of the joint motion, a motion that we understand motivated by the proximity of the preus decree – and therefore we will have to see how these measures that the Parliament has led to the government – and also motivated by student and teacher mobilizations – apply. The wave of the 16th April of professorship associated with the University of Barcelona, the largest in the country, again put the focus on this royal decree that at the time was already contested – and even was challenged by the conference of rectors, which opposed this royal decree – and the associate professors have again put it in the focus because, therefore, at the University of Barcelona there is a difficult problem, hard and great, with false associates, which are practically half of the teaching staff and researcher. And we were talking about it the day we talked about Serra Húnter and we are putting it back on the table today: these counter-reforms that were made in 2012 and also the draconian reduction in the repositioning rate are, therefore, the manifestation of austerity policies, of the details that have been made at the university. And if we're talking about the University of Barcelona, we're talking about the Autonomous University, which is one of the universities where this response to the details, therefore, involved more mobilizations; among others, an occupation of the Rectorate. It was not the first – probably here more than one and more than one, and different political colors, participated in mobilizations at the university of these characteristics – nor will it be the last. But that one has a peculiarity – that protest – which is that it is absolutely stratospheric penises, as it has already pointed out, right? , thirteen-year-old pens against students – there is also a teacher and a member of the PAS involved – and a million-year-old fiancee. For this reason we have presented these two points, in solidarity and in recognition, therefore, of the people involved, to whom the oral trial will soon be opened. We welcome the fact that at least one of the two is approved, and that, therefore, this recognition of Parliament serves to put an end to this animalized animal in the form of pens that the prosecution demands. The other side of austerity policies, of retailing, was the increase in university subjects, which the government, therefore, wanted to mitigate with the names of "equity scholarships". We have discussed a lot in this House and also in the sessions we have with the Secretary of Universities about whether this minority of prices can get to everyone who needs to get there. And when we don't have any doubts about this same Faristol, it's argued that no, that it's practically a rodeo model, that of the fairies. But it's true that the same University Secretary plans to make some changes for this course, and he admits that they will involve more students who have been taken; it's a sign that it didn't get to everyone who was to get there, right? It wants to facilitate through the single window. And also the one who points the young lady, so it seems to us that it goes in this very sense, doesn't it? , to facilitate access to the fellowships, and, therefore, to arrive at all menys to everyone to whom they are to arrive. And on masters, finally, let's go back to voting on one of the points that we've already approved with the motion more than a year ago, and that goes to the point that 3+2 doesn't mean that the overall focus of university studies. And, therefore, if after a degree of three years and you are employed or, in the case of enabling masters, it is not that you are employed, you are obliged to exercise the profession that you want to do..., if after three years and you are obliged to do two years of mastery, as at least you have the guarantees that you can do at a public university and with a public price. All right, all right, For our part, give thanks to the groups that support this thought on the case of the « 27 and more to the Autonomous University, to which from here we send a hug and all the support for us. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.101.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr. Joan Giner.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.102.0	Well, above the time of the film credits, and I don't want to end this without thanking the work on the papers and contributions made by Congresswoman Alicia of the PSC. I think he's on a path, with the research he's done, and that we have to give a touch because we have to put the research on the table, also on the political agenda, also here in Parliament, and it will be one of the things that I think we have to start working from then on. Also congratulate her not only for her work, but for the clarification she made to the deputy of the PP, the deputy Fernando. Look, the PP government and the Ciutadans agreement, which is actually the same, are not an example in the treatment of public workers, and less in universities. And we also remember that universities in the rest of the State, unfortunately, are no better, at the level of job insecurity, than Catalans. And, therefore, here they are accomplices, too, of this type of policies. As for the group that gives support to the Government, the Government of the Generality, I, with a smile and with a hug, say to them: « Vagina making box. Vagina making box and vagina guarding calerons, which we have already found a way to force them for law and socially to lower the materials, and the year we go not to a model of rectification, but to lower them all and tend to the gratuity of the public university. Because some are liberal, others are neoliberal, and some are communists and we believe that public servants should be free for everyone. Finally, and finally, a fraternal hug, today it's an important day..., and thank the UPC above all the thought it has given us, of the 27th and more. It's a barbarity, the one that went to the Autonomous University of Barcelona; it's a barbarity, that the prosecution acted as it did. Also give our thanks to the groups that support the "27 and more" points. I, from here on, a fraternal embrace, with a lot of "revolutionary affection, to the causats and causats. And let's hope, together, we get out of this. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.103.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Giner. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. Mr. Mejía, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.104.0	To ask for a separate vote on points 3 and 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.105.0	Points 3 and 4. Can they vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.106.0	Yeah. [[Someone said, "No.]] Well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.107.0	Don't you? [[Pause.]] Okay. Mr. Sanchez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.108.0	To ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.109.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.110.0	2nd and 3rd and 4th.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.111.0	All right, thank you. Mr. Castellà, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.112.0	To ask for a separate vote, too, from point 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.113.0	Thank you. A separate vote has been requested on points 2a, 3, 4 and 5, to be voted on separately. Therefore, we will vote in this order, and then we will vote on the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's go vote point 2.a. The vote begins. Point 2.a_has been approved by 122 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 3. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 98 votes to 36, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 21 votes to 97, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 72 votes to 62, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on a university for everyone and without prejudice has been approved by 134 votes in favour, against and against. Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.114.0	It's part of the session. Very late in the day, all of them. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the current state of the European Union]] [[302-00151/11]] The point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the question to the Government on the topicality of the European Union, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose her, Mr. Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.115.0	Thank you, President. Well, before entering into the theme of the motion itself, express on behalf of our parliamentary group our support and solidarity to the people of Can Sanpere, who did not make hours have been dislodged from the space he occupied. Once again, it is shown that power prefers to protect the interests of Nunez and Navarro than what is a popular claim to the Prize so as to get that space to become a land and a public and public utility building, collective, to the service of the people. Well, and getting into the matter of the motion as quickly as possible, also on behalf of our parliamentary group to express our satisfaction, because, indeed, with the approval of the motion that is going to happen all the time today at this session we have certainly met the four main objectives that we proposed with this inquiry and with the subsequent motion. For a song, open a critical debate on the current European Union. Secondly, to reaffirm that our people, which our country, at the moment, must have a right to decide, must have a right to self-determination, also in relation to what is its foreign policy and in relation to what is its relationship with international institutional brands, including the same European Union. On the other hand, also, a third objective was that this Parliament should urge the Government of the Generality and the institutions of the Generality not only in its public and international activities express a public opinion existing, real, favourable and partisan of the European Union, or that there are more positive aspects than not denied, but also express a very important public opinion to our country – it is more, more, growing – that it is every time more critical of the European Union's shortcomings and weaknesses, both for what it does to its internal policy and for what it does to its international policy. And there is also an objective that we consider to be satisfied with the approval of this motion, in fact, that there is a widely shared opinion, or a majority shared opinion, in this Parliament on the need for it already from now on, but above all in the next political stage of our country, we really assume that we need to build a new project for Europe, which is the lacks, failures, deep deficiencies, of the current European Union, of this club of states; the councilman does not make it possible to build a qualified route such as the European Union, a « club of states..., but as a political project, overall, with many shortcomings..., therefore the need to build a new project for Europe that goes beyond the current European Union. Well, I have to value in a particularly positive way, and with my thanks, the task that in this sense has been done so much by the groups of Catalonia Yes, it is possible as by Juntes per el Si, that they have made very positive and very enriching contributions to almost all the points of our motion, in particular the Deputy Nuet and the Deputy Lloveras, that with all their contributions they have enriched, sense of doubt, the original text, and we consider that without in any way handling the contents, the principles and the essential objectives that we want to raise there. Also to the other groups that have contributed papers, to the Socialist Party of Catalonia and to Ciutadans, that we have to say that, even to coincide in some aspects of some of their reviews – the need for a debate on Europe, critical positions up to and including the current European Union or the need to rethink the European project – there were aspects that questioned some questions of the foundations of our settlement, and that is why we have not finally accepted them. Well; therefore, satisfaction. Let us think that it is a step forward that this Parliament can approve a motion that takes a critical position before the European Union; the need for a new European project that needs to go beyond what is now the European Union, because of its social, democratic, political, economic, and enormous deficiencies in international politics; the need for the Government to express this plurality and the institutions of the Generality to manifest this plurality in all the scenes, and, very importantly, the majority compromise of this Parliament in which we will also exercise the right to decide for what it does to the international institutional marks in our foreign policy, and therefore also the right to decide on what to do in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.116.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Ms. Susana Beltrán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.117.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, well, we agree with the CUP and the motion it presents in the sense of giving a boost to the European Union. We also agree on the shortcomings in safeguarding the social and democratic rights of its citizens. It is true that there is a deficit in the European Union around this, we also agree, just as we agree with the Romeva Councillor, when 'it is necessary to ask' in the previous plenary, that the refugee crisis has shown the worst face of the European Union, and we, as a member of the European Union, are also responsible. We're surprised at this young man, anyway, this Europeanist, aren't we? , which permeates the entire House, and which I understand is a feeling not only of the CUP, but also of all parliamentary groups, isn't it? With the Catalan Law of Catalan Communities abroad, which was approved yesterday and which does not contemplate the fact that the European Union is our home, and therefore an internal space..., and that it was a time to claim it as a legal and political reality, and, in turn, to let this opportunity be lost. In all the rest, we already talked a little bit with the Member Riera, we differ, we disagree, respect the model to be held by the European Union. You defend Europe from the people; we defend Europe from the citizens. What you want with this new impetus from the European Union is to reaffirm the rights of the people, the right of self-determination, and, in change, we are going to reaffirm and strengthen the state of European citizenship. In the year 2000, when the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union was adopted, there was almost a whole series of meetings and discussions in which representatives of member countries, associations with much different sensitivities and sensitivities took part, academia, representatives of the European institutions, so as to speak of what should be the fundamental rights of the European Union, which should be the rights of the 21st century, and which was adopted at a time when the right of self-determination of peoples was not collected, and on the other hand other rights which affect the collection and which were not previously legally and politically worked, such as the rights of the great people or the rights of integration of the disabled, were reflected. We value much more, and we are more in this line, strengthening the state of European citizenship. We want citizens to consider that the European Union is their homeland, beyond the nationalities that each of these European citizens has. We want this European construction process to close this status of citizenship in accounts to close or claim the self-determination of the people. We believe that strengthening the European Parliament, so far as European citizens are concerned, can serve as a much better counterbalance to these shortcomings and shortcomings that Member States have in dealing with crises such as those of refugees and problems that they have to face with solidarity than they do not demand the self-determination of the people. You want to separate Catalonia from Spain, and therefore the consequence would also be the separation of the European Union, and we want to reform Spain and we also want to reform..., and be active participants in the European construction process. Well, just to finish, a simple reflection. I, the year 2014, opened a blog that is said, and that is said, in fact, a European citizen on the playground. At that moment I laid out what I wanted to be and what I could do, and I opened this blog. At that time, long before the Catalan Civil Society and of which I would have passed, it was a necessity for me to demand European citizenship. At that moment I went out to the playground alone. Now I'm not alone, now I'm playing with the taronja team. Even though I'm green, I'm playing with the taronja team. And I want to close this character again, I like it..., and soci citadana of the European Union and I want to remain a citizen of the European Union. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.118.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Beltran. To defend the papers presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Pedret has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.119.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies... Congressman Riera, we thank you for your words. Indeed, it was not possible to incorporate the contributions we wanted to introduce to the text proposed by the CUP. We understood that they were not necessarily contradictory to the position of the CUP for which, in general, it makes the need for a new European project. We probably differ in the forms that this could take. In fact, in one of the points we fully understand that you are telling us that at this moment you cannot pronounce on this, more quickly you refuse, that it is in which we have proposed them in relation to the need to move forward in turning Europe into an authentic democratic and social federation, and therefore to move towards a united state of Europe. In other respects, we think we might have agreed if we made more effort. But in any case, let's say, we understand the general meaning of your text, and in some significant points we share it. We, from the record and admiration to figures like that of Altiero Spinelli, who already in 1941, with others, from a prison of the Mussolinian Italia, and therefore committed to the Faixist regime, was able, at a time when the defeat of Nazism was not so visible, to see the need for a united Europe and with a deep social character, in the band, obviously, with a deep democratic character, from this respect and admiration for people like Spinelli, we continue to bet on a European federation. In fact, our federal dream is not exhausted in the construction of a federal Spain or a federal Europe, but with others perhaps even more distressed as Immanuel Kant we think of ways to democratize world governance and a federation that embraces unceasing humanity. Is this our idea of Europe, the idea of a Europe that at these times must defend, certainly, before the drift and the tide in which the project of the present European Union finds itself, surely the fruit of hegemony and domination in the European camp of neoliberal ideas, no longer so ordinary, but of neoliberal ideas, in the last decades, and that it must defend not only from this domain, from this hegemony, but also from something that is still more dangerous, that is the profound anti-illegal reaction of the identity regression, that has often taken forms, as it also denounces its text, from xenophobia and racism, and that has been done before the indifference of the European institutions, that in a very late manner the government has not been able to react in a very short period of time, but that the government has not been able to react in a very short period of time, but that the government has not been able to react in a short period of time. Therefore, we believe that, indeed, it is a rethink of the European project and that they are the commons of the citizens of Europe who must define which types of Europe they want. We had an opportunity with the draft European constitution. At that time, surely you and I would not have agreed in the position, but let me say that at that time we gave an argument which was that, far from defending the no to the European Constitution, we believed that the rebuff to that constitution would not bring any better texts in the matter of the European constitution nor an advance in the sense of more democratization, more social cohesion, more social integration, and much fear that later events have given us reason. At that time the European constitution could have been an impetus for many of the issues that we can certainly agree on, and in changing the context to that text has brought us to a somewhat worse situation, in which, moreover, the majority, the ideological hegemony now make it very difficult for ideas of progress, ideas of social transformation, such as I believe that in the background we could share many groups of this chamber. And now we are addressing the need to reform or transform Europe with a very difficult situation. Despite this, we will not give up, we do not think that the break-up with the European Union is the solution, nor that it is the question that may seem trivial, but that it does not seem to us in absolute terms: the European Union has allowed, at least, two great European powers, such as France and Germany, to pass almost seven decades without war between them and watering all the European countries in this conflict. Neither was this, nor could we consider it a minor conquest, but we are lucky that we have not experienced a conflict of these characteristics, nor that it would be worth trying to save and transform the European project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.120.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. To defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si, has the word Ms. Neus Lloveras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.121.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies. The Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes practically shares in its totality both the presentation of reasons and the agreements of the motion submitted by the People's Unity Candidacy, but we have presented a whole series of issues with the intention of enriching the motion and adding some aspects that we found missing. We share, first of all, that the European Union is in crisis and that much of its actions are – much – stretching its founding values. The Europe of values, which for decades has been one of the most admired political projects in the world, has gone down a bit, unable to adapt to our times, unable to react before us great reptiles. One of the most striking examples has been and continues to be the refugee crisis, in which Europe, contrary to its tradition and values, has delegated a good share of its asylum obligations, thus climbing the rights and dignity of the most vulnerable people in the world, some of the most vulnerable people in the world. Surely, all perfectly legal, but, in my view, absolutely immoral. For another band we also share the observation that there is little democratic sensitivity between the European Union when it comes to defending the right to self-determination. We observe a Europe of the states that is each time longer than the will of its citizens and citizens, the interests of the states are situated above the interests of the people. And finally, we also share the concern, an important concern, for the growth of extreme right-wing movements and xenophobia, but, for another band, we found that we were missing, and for that reason we presented a whole series of ideas, we found that the motion was missing a reference to the clear Europeanist vocation of Catalonia; from the Junts group to the Yes we wanted to highlight it. Catalonia is Europe and, against what some have said today, will continue to feel Europe. In any case, we will have to work to change what we do not like about Europe and, in this sense, precisely, it is another aspect that we found missing from the young person: a clear reference to the need to incorporate into the European Union a strong pillar of social rights, at the same level as the banking union. And lastly, we would also like to point out that we found a more direct reference to what is now a priority for some of us in this hemisphere, which is the reference. It was about proposing a big debate on Europe, but we thought that before now, for us, reference should be made to the reference. And in this sense, basically, taking very much into account these three aspects, we have submitted some papers. The first point, at point 1, precisely what it wanted is to highlight the Europeanist vocation of Catalonia and we have also added a reference to the challenges of global nature facing the European Union. With the speech in the second place, we wanted to strengthen the will to fight with firmness the increase of xenophobia and the extreme right. With the message at the third point we wanted to add a reference to individual freedoms; it was a lot about the collectives, but we found a reference to individual freedoms missing. For what we did in the fourth place, we wanted to make a more specific reference to the European Union and for this reason we added another..., we proposed an additional point. In the debate at the fifth point we wanted to add references to development cooperation, which we thought was worth emphasizing; and in the sixth point, in the debate we presented at the sixth point, we wanted to clarify a sequence that is important to us, which is: the first, referring; the second, being raised and, from here on, defining the external relations in the framework of a great debate. In short, as I said to the principle of my intervention, we practically share in its totality the statement of reasons and the agreements proposed by the People's Unity Candidacy; a large part of the papers have been accepted, and here we would like to thank the UPC for its willingness to look for a writing in which we feel all comfortable. I also think it's good to point out that three of them have been able to add-it to Catalonia's exams too.Yes, it is, and with all this I think it has been possible to enrich the motion and, therefore, Together for the Yes we will vote favorably for all the points of this motion. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.122.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Lloveras. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.123.0	Thank you, President. Well, our group has submitted four papers on this proposal; at four, we could say that with the transactions that Mr Riera has been working on, in practice they have been incorporated. Therefore, we will also vote in favour of all the points of this motion. I would like to point out that our parliamentary group feels that the People's Union candidacy is at the time of having a critical approach to the current project of the European Union. In this sense, we feel that we are right, and therefore, I would like to highlight four aspects which, in some way, make this criticism and the need for an alternative proposal, because another Europe is possible. The first takes into account that the founding fathers and seas of the European project, when they observed the destruction of the Second World War, came to terms with a Europe; a Europe based on the unity of those peoples who were confronted and destroyed, also based on solidarity among these peoples; they thought of a Europe in pau and observed its cities, which were true runes after the conflict, and they also seemed to be in a Europe of social justice, which could teach the world a form of conviction in which there might be a real social justice. And from here came the state of modern welfare that today we are bearing, from that pact, from that agreement, after World War II. But then, at the beginning of the construction of this integration project, we were told that this project on many occasions was led by sectors, economic sectors, oligarchic sectors which, at least, changed these ideals for other things: they were subordinated in their defence policy and in their foreign policy to the designs of NATO; they applied doctrines of economic neoliberalism which, obviously, posed a question of the state of welfare and made the European continent much more unequal. It is therefore clear that today the European project is in crisis. Some of you have said this and it is evidence; I believe that no one, not even the European elites, who have built this project in their image and appearance, doubt that the European project is in crisis. I see the crisis of 2008; Brexit; the refugee crisis; the management of the debt that has taken place with some of the member countries of the European Union, Greece feels the paradigm of this management of the debt, and I also see the policy of retailing and privatization that European institutions have imposed on the economies of the different member countries. And to say that if the welfare state today is in crisis we have cleared the European project of some of its attributes that the European project partners have said they were of fundamental importance, and today we see the bones of this European Union, and there are few, on many occasions, of that original project. That is why the process that Catalonia sees must also serve, not only to define us as the country, but also to rethink the European project in which we physically want to live, because we are part of this continent and we will possibly feel it for many millennia and millennia of years. Therefore, yes, we make use of this process, which we must also equip ourselves with to reconstitute the European project, because without this European project we will find it difficult to be what we are, because we are also part of a group of people living on the European continent. I'm done. Let's go back to the roots. Maybe it's a good way to rethink the European project. Let us return to Europe by abandoning NATO Europe; let us return to Europe of social justice by abandoning Europe of detail. Let us follow Europe, let us call Europe free and self-determined people, because non-democratic oligarchies cannot govern. We have or do not have a flag at the UN, we must be a free people, not only before Madrid, also before Brussels and before Frankfurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.124.0	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. Next, to fix his position, has the words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.125.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, I welcome Mr Riera, and it seems to me that this would be a good time to remember what the electoral programme of the authors of this motion says that they are now debating about the European Union, because it seems to me that we are ahead of an important correction and that I am celebrating it, because it can have consequences. What did the program say? « The CUP - Crida Constituent refuse to form part of the European Union, the euro, NATO and the euro-exe. We disobey the European Union and we break with the euro, the programme of the CUP. "After Syriza's failure, we cannot ignore the need for a firm, unequivocal and prepared position on this matter, which places the planned arrangement at the start of the euro and the European Union. Home, to these lifts give lessons of firmness to Syriza when they have approved autonomous assumptions and in euros that a year ago would have been entitled to neoliberals and rescues, so, man, just a little bit. We continue with the program: "We will force the rupture with the Spanish and French states through the exercise of the right to the self-determination of the Catalan people and we will bet for a Catalan republic that embraces the conjunction of the national territory, from Fraga to Maó and from Salses to Guardamar. Well, for the time being, the only thing we've seen with Spain, France and the European Union has been the cream of these democratic flags that represent us all and that the CUP has applauded; more. Keep going. Outside the European Union, what are the alliances of this Catalan republic? So, according to the program of the CUP: "Veneçuela, Cuba and the countries of Alba, Colombia, Sahara, Palestine, Kurdistan and Euskal Herria. Well, I here suppose you understand or concolate Colombia with FARC and Euskal Herria with Arnaldo Otegi. All the way, I have to tell them they're not alone. If the CUP program seemed to be able to win the Hugo prize to the best new science fiction, the Junts for Yes program is pure fantasy, and the morning here is important, because the first one is more credible. The promise of the Junts per el Si program, already at its first point, is that before the split, to count from the elections of 27 September 2015– this is literal– would call for constituent elections because Catalonia would already be independent and would already act as a member of the European Union and would form part of the United Nations. Well, the CUP promised to leave the European Union and Junts for the Yes promised that Catalonia would now be a member state of the European Union, at these heights of history. They are two antagonistic promises, but both empirically failed. As have the proposals and the promises that were made after that, they have also failed. For example, in the Junts per el Si compromise proposal to the CUP of December 2015 is concrete some of the steps that should have been given already, right? , to achieve these objectives; literally, « creating the passport and visas– page 19–, « delimiting the territory and preparing agreements with neighbouring states– page 20–, « establishing a strategy for the implementation of the duaner system– page 22. They committed themselves to doing all this. These are points that I have simply read from the Junts documents for the Yes and the CUP, and that they are part of a project that had a limited date; as you say the first point of the Junts program for the Yes, divide_months to count from the elections of September 27, 2015. I mean, his project is already officially a scam, it's already officially a scam, from March 27th. That's all right. But, of course, now the CUP presents us with a motion to rethink the European Union, when what they should rethink is all that they have said and that they carry in the last five years of a process that did not go away. Because they have dealt with the themes of the European Union with certainly a frivolity and a little consistency that makes it glaring. I, if I were an independentist, would really be very angry with you, but, like I'm not so sure, I just want to see your voters get naive, like some of them believe their voters that these Catalonian uprisings would no longer be part of Spain and the European Union, and would be allied with Venice and Kurdistan, and like the others they told them that Catalonia would be a member of the European Union and of the United Nations before March 27th. As it goes, we are pleased with your turn, the turn that the CUP has done now, with this motion for a resolution. Having a government in the hands of a party that proposed to leave the European Union seemed to us that it was not positive, that it did not help common projects, as it has now attracted the city of Barcelona to the European Medicines Agency, and I believe that this is positive. But, finally, our party cannot vote in favour of this young man. I defend, our party defends a critical Europeanism, but a Europeanism, and you propose to break the most advanced mark of rights and freedoms all over the world, which is the European Union, to retreat to other less democratic and less pluralistic models. So, we'll vote no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.126.0	Thank you, Mr. Milián. To pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr Carles Riera, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.127.0	Thank you, President. Well, why did we introduce this young man? I'll make a brief, brief reminders. For the difficult political crisis that the European Union is going through – everyone agrees, I think. For the great distance between some of the founding ideals of the European Union and its current reality, both at the social and democratic level, a huge gap, from our insurmountable point of view, considering the negative contribution of the European Union in terms of international policy and, above all, in terms of what has been its military intervention, especially in the Mediterranean area, with disastrous consequences: that is where the political and military intervention of the European Union has passed, in the context of NATO, which has been left behind has been a trail of desolation. Right now we're here. And with tragic consequences also from the point of view of humanitarian crises, with the consequence of all the great tragedy of refugees and refugees, before which, once again, the European Union fails for what it does to its policy of acquittal, immigration and asylum. A European Union, too, deeply compromised with the economic and multinational financial powers, speculative and extractive in the face of the social rights of European citizens. And, obviously, a European Union with a very low democratic sensitivities, as proved not to complement the outcome of the referendum in Greece or, for example, imposing a Spanish constitutional reform, which was indeed an authentic coup d'état express, posing over the return of the debt, over public policies and social policies. Therefore, for these and many other reasons, we, indeed, consider that the European Union is a failed project that is not complying with its founding objectives or much less. And, indeed, before that, we, Mr. Milián, ratify ourselves in our program with both skins and signs. This is our political proposal. But, obviously, what we are asking of the Catalonian Parliament is not that it approves our political programme – it will all come, eh? – But at the moment our only pretension is that the Parliament of Catalonia, as we celebrate that it will pass, admits a critical position on the European Union, admits that on this issue we will also have to decide democratically to exercise our right to self-determination; accept that it is a new project for Europe that does not necessarily have to be that of the European Union, that can go further than the European Union, and that while our institutions have to express a plural and non-uniform position, it respects a topic in which there is a debate, as is obvious. Many thanks to the groups that have given us support. And let's celebrate, then, that this young man will approve. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.128.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.129.0	By separate votes, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.130.0	What points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.131.0	For one band, points 3 and 5, and for the other, points 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.132.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.133.0	To request a separate vote. On the one hand, point 1 and on the other, point 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.134.0	Points 1 and 2 cannot be voted together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.135.0	No, no, Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.136.0	Thank you. [[Long break.]] Separate votes on points 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6 were requested. Can the 3 and 5 vote together? [[Pause.]] So, we'll vote for one, then two, three, and five, six, well, and four, which is the only one left, let's leave it at the end. So, let's go vote number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 99 votes to 11, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 124 votes to 11, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 3 and 5 together. The vote begins. Points 3 and 5 were approved by 83 votes to 36, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 83 votes to 52, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on the current situation in the European Union was adopted by 99 votes to 36, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the special work centres]] [[302-00152/11]] The agenda item is: Motion following the question to the Government on the special work centres presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mr. Raúl Moreno. [[Long break.]] Mr. Moreno, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.137.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Constellera Bassa, Vice-President, I greet briefly the guests who accompany us today from the rostrum of Parliament, members of Dincat who have come to follow this debate of this motion on the special work centres in Catalonia. This young man is the result of the willingness expressed with the different ideas that we have seen most of the parliamentary groups in this chamber. We have, I believe, made a very important effort to agree, to try to approve what should be a solid model for Catalonia of a subject which, in the later years, therefore, there have been different movements that have made that have been distorted to a certain point the origin of which were the special work centres and, finally, all their evolution. Therefore, I want to thank the patience also of the deputies Chakir el Homrani, Gemma Lienas, Francisco Domínguez, Gabriela Serra and also Fernando Sánchez, for their pocket during these last hours. It's been difficult, but I think we've come to a consensus text, and the vast majority of papers are already running a little in line from which we initially defended fifteen days ago in this very Faristol. And from the point of view of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia, we give a series of objectives: the first, to complete the state law, and, therefore, that all persons with disabilities may have access to 50_percent of the minimum interprofessional wage; for another band, also, to ensure that persons with a high disability index also have a high level of help, and, therefore, that each held this minimum wage subsidy as a function of their disability; to promote inclusion in the ordinary enterprise of persons with disabilities, with positive discrimination measures, both for workers and for the enterprise, and to strengthen the presence of special work centres in public contracts of administration, and to promote economic empowerment. And the papers presented were a little bit in this line, with some positive aspects that I think have finally enriched it. And, therefore, in summary, this vast motion proposed, as I said, to allocate 50 % of the minimum inter-professional wage to all workers with a disability of 33 to 75 % and 75 % of the SMI to those who have special difficulties, returning to the order of the year 2010, before the Government set aside the topalls of the year 2011, tanmateix, for the units supporting professional activity. And to get him to claim the resources from the state, as the CUP demanded, and we accepted his concern, and therefore, to strengthen the money that comes from the sectoral social insurance conference. Let's remove the topalls that have made since 2011 the workers and workers of the special work centres do not meet their interprofessional minimum wage subsidy; they went from paying 75_per_cent to not paying all workers to those who had a lower disability. We have also included some considerations from the Ciutan Parliamentary Group that remind us of the commitments that this same chamber has already established in previous resolutions on this same subject. So, it's not a new topic. There are resolutions approved that the government has not completed. We also incorporate a point in relation to the need to agree, to negotiate, to speak, to sister, to mark the subsidy lines still pending, in line with the need not to face the same sector, not to face those people who represent the most disadvantaged or people with special difficulty. And, more importantly, a consensual and agile model. I say this quickly because it has also become part of the idea that our system should be more efficient in order to prevent the special work centres from having to bear more than 20 million euros in their three-hour period than they have to bear in order not to have the agreed and clear order. And we ask to advance the terms, and that the year that the order sees is prepared in the first trimester, and that the government sets aside, moreover, a fund of ransom of 30_million euros for if it goes back to that order comes out much later. And another of the main points is that we won't have a real job placement model for people with disabilities without a strong system of inclusion in the ordinary business. But, as we don't have it right now, and what we have is a lot of flow, and the numbers so tell us, what we can't do is retail it now in minimum wages and special work centers, making these people go to the ordinary business, because the system of incorporation into the ordinary business hasn't arrived yet, and it's not important enough to justify that it doesn't pay the minimum wage to people with a minor disability. So, what we want and what we have tried to do with this young man, who, I insist, has been very complex, very busy, too, for political groups: trying to mark who are the lines that since the Catalonian Parliament we consider that the government must have time to put forward future models for which it has to see with the special work centres. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.138.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms. Gabriela Serra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.139.0	Thank you, President. As said by the Socialist Party's company Raúl, it was a complex task, not a hard one, but a complicated one, isn't it? As in CUP - Creed Constituent, we appreciate the patience, too, and the acceptance of some of our reviews, and we believe that the end result is quite voting. So, you've got the award-winning effort, because we think we've got a young man who can vote, right? Now, yes, we would like to make a couple of considerations, because it's very certain – it's very certain – what he said, what he said and what his partner Raúl said that we have to guarantee these percentages, this minimum interprofessional wage, that people with disabilities deserve. But maybe it scared me a little when, in the presentation, you said, "We sunk our model, a model, didn't we? I would like to remind you that we precisely have a model, and, I think that, in this, in the conversations that we had, we agreed, the model that we have is not our model; it is the Spanish law of Mr. Trias Fargas, which took it in the eighty and that it was a law that originates precisely and is created at a socio-economic moment that you have very little to see with the socioeconomic situation that we have at these times. So, it's a Spanish law. So the first thing we'd have to say when we're doing a job where we're complaining about it is that while we don't have independence, what we need to claim is that the Spanish State pays and brings all the resources that its own law tells it to bring. And I think that's important, right? Because, if not, we're getting a little embolistic. Why? Because I wouldn't talk about our law, because at the length of the motion that you presented to us and that we had an opportunity to discuss all the fevers that this law has, not only in its unfolding, but also in its conception. Why? Because it's worth saying that when the law is drafted we have a 2_percent disability percentage; today, in 2017, we have an 8_percent disability percentage. So, here's a slip in everything I could predict and have that law present. As we also have to say – we have to say – that, as a result of this law and possibly as a result of the fact that in many aspects it is very generic, in many aspects it is little protocol·litaza, it gives little to what it has passed, it gives little to it, that they stop that the law has already been approved, already in the North, a large part of the special centers of work that have been created are special centers created for the same enterprises, for the private industry, right? And that's why we have so many, so many examples, isn't it? So, we could quote, among them, for example – always comes out the same, has made himself famous – Mr Florentino Pérez and his Action, right? , but SIFU, Clece, ONCE, TMB, El Corte Inglés, Servitelco, etcetera. With the aggravation that, for example, Servitelco, the same Telefónica workers, are already taking action, why? because they have identified that many of the workers who are working with special centres are people who even before they were in the ordinary business in a place of work. Therefore, we should also see that all the best things we want to promote, and that are to be promoted, indisputably, for these special work centres are really for special work centres. And that's why we greeted so much when you accepted, when we agreed on the thought that we need to promote those social economic centres, those cooperative centres, etc. And we are much more grateful when we have also accepted that inspections should be increased precisely in these centres. Why? Because we'll see that there's a lot of people in these centers that could be... that's the ultimate goal of every special work center, that people can end up in an ordinary work center. They're people and they're people who have to be helped, trained, promoted with pluriprofessional teams, what? , who can fill a job place in an ordinary company. And this is one of the problems and considerations that we had, but, like, I don't have any more time... I have more time, but like I don't have more time, just a second. "So, too... – and we will vote in favour, I have already said this – and I hope that to the Catalan Republic, when we already have our legislative agenda and we can discuss it with seny, with character and with finance, because we will have, "while making these regulations so broad, 50_per_cent, 75_per_cent, more disabled, less disabled, because, by luck – by luck – people with problems and disabilities are not 50_per_cent and 75_per_cent, but there is a range of difficulties, a range of very big differences. And, therefore, the help that these people should have should be adequate to the level of disability or difficulty or of little ability that they have, and not make settings that are so large that they do not help and that ultimately they can facilitate more than anything to companies..., that the most important thing is to hire a worker with 50_per_cent than a worker with 75_per_cent, because at 50_per_cent they exploit it better, does not pay social security and has a higher return to work. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.140.0	Thank you, Mrs Serra. To defend the papers presented for the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, has the word Francisco Javier Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.141.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, thanks to the public who have come, from the sector, to visit us, for the interest and for attending, to see how this debate that interests you directly takes place. And I wanted to start by saying that I'm very happy about three things. Firstly, for me, I am happy for myself, for being able to participate in this debate which aims to improve the situation of special employment centres and for the integration of people with functional diversity into work. Secondly, I am pleased to be able to deal again with this issue which the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group has already brought to Parliament on several occasions, with results in the form of resolutions, such as the 52, on subsidies from the TECs; the 306, on general policy, on the maintenance of jobs in the TECs and the USAPs; or on the granting of credits from the Institut Català de Financi; or the 441 of this same legislature as well, on the reserve of jobs for people with disabilities. Thirdly, I am pleased to see the turn that the Socialist Group has taken on this subject, because in a short time it has passed in the debate on budgets to vote that, as can be seen in the picture, it has not improved the allocations for special employment centres to present this motion, where much of it is devoted to improving aid to these centres. I mean, congratulations. And I'm happy because I've seen a twist that we like, as a group. Therefore, thank you for introducing this motion and thank you for looking to lower the political profile of the content in favour of a consensus between the different groups and, above all, with a consensus with the sector. The main points of this motion are, first of all, to make it very clear how the resources of the sectoral conference are allocated, already discussed in the previous interventions, regarding the minimum interprofessional wage of workers both of the TECs and of the USAPs. And it seems that through this motion you will be able to have a report in less than three months and also an annual repetition of how these resources are doing. Secondly, there has also been talk of eliminating the 2011 ceilings, which leave out of the subsidy for all contracts after this year. This measure is supposed to have been caused by the economic crisis, but we are on our way to overcoming the economic crisis and are not recovering. So, we'd have to adjust and these tops would have to disappear. Thirdly, it is very important to guarantee the budgetary resources to cover this 50_percent interprofessional minimum wage for workers, or higher in the case of groups of special difficulties, also for the new heights of the workers of the TECs and for no worker to lose his job because of the lack of financing of this subsidy for economic asphyxiation of the TECs, both by convoking on time the annual orders as well as – and thanks also again for accepting the amendment of Citizens – that is guaranteed by the authorization of credits of the Institut Català de Finances or proposals for the maintenance of the jobs in the TECs. There has been talk of the sectoral conference, the elimination of ceilings, the guarantee of budgetary resources. There is another important point that is consensus with the sector, with the different actors in the sector. The consensus between parliamentary groups and with the different types of actors we are working with is very important. Finally... well, there will be another point, but it is important to talk about integration into the ordinary labour market. There is a strong need to increase compliance with the employment reserve for disabled workers. And again I thank the Socialist Group and Mr Moreno for agreeing to introduce our amendment, which calls for compliance with Resolution 441 of this legislature, on the job reserve, which talks about automatic inspections to check the 2-per-cent reserve, look at the causes or impediments for which this percentage is not reached in ordinary companies, promotion measures or control measures, etc. Finally, I regret that one of our amendments has not been accepted, the rest has been accepted or negotiated, because we had made a text that I believe was quite clean, which was to empower special work centres with persons with diverse disabilities, multi-disability, which aim at the social and labour integration of persons with disabilities and those with special difficulties and facilitate integration into the ordinary market. Therefore, it seemed to me to be a very clean text, and I regret that it has been left out to other models of special work centres which are also interesting for these workers. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.142.0	Thank you, Mr Dominguez. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Ms Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.143.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies, deputies, people from the dincat you're accompanying us today, good afternoon. This is a frankly complicated motion, because it is not easy to answer understandable and sometimes counterposed requests from the same entities. It is obvious that both entities and parliamentary groups see the need to guarantee the rights of persons with disabilities, whatever this is. And, of these rights, one of the fundamentals is that of work. Work is, now for now, a way of being able to have a certain degree of economic autonomy and a certain way of feeling part of society. But above all, for people with cognitive disabilities and mental disorders, work is an excellent form of therapy, the best form of integration and the most economically sustainable, because it is clear that it is much more profitable than a person who is in a residence receiving a benefit. Why am I centered in people with intellectual or mental disabilities? Because they are the ones who have special difficulties and, therefore, need more protection. In this sense, Catalonia is a referent in the Spanish State. In fact, long before the Lysm, the Law of Social Integration of the Disabled, already at the time of the dictatorship, the Catalan families of children and children with intellectual disabilities had succeeded in having their creatures enter the ordinary schools, to those schools which had been born on the margin of Francoist schools. For the first time, intellectually disabled creatures did not remain stranded at home, but had the opportunity to integrate. The families, however, found that at the end of the school they had no place to carry them, and this was the origin of the Lysmi. It is here that the special work centres arise, that they are a protected sector and that they were designed for people who could not integrate into the ordinary work market, that is, to offer job opportunities to people with special difficulties, that they are those who have intellectual disabilities, those who have mental disorders or those who have cerebral palsy at a level of 33_per_cent, and also those with a physical or sensory disability at a degree greater than 65_per_cent. In fact, Catalonia leads the occupation in the sector, while we have a lot left to reach 100_per_cent. And I want to remind you that we are talking about entities that will never be displaced and that, therefore, they have a social and economic function of a very high value. 2011 was a two-factor-derived change. The first factor is that the sector conference's fundraiser, which led to the first tensions in the sector and which has led to the current situation where the collection is competent for these migrating funds. And the second factor is the fact that we're actors in the sector, these actors with a lot of work to do. These private companies represent a threat to the special work centres that try to be self-sufficient and economically sustainable but that they will never be able to compete with these private companies, because they work with people with special difficulties, who can thus take on the degree of stress that a company with a desire for work represents and which, moreover, require much more support. These privately-owned enterprises take advantage of subsidies, tax benefits and social security benefits, but they hire people with disabilities who may be on the ordinary market. In short, they are disloyal competition. I'll leave you some figures, so you can see what I'm referring to. In 2010 there were 11,800 people with disabilities employed in special work centres, of which 8,461 were particularly difficult and 3,429 others with disabilities, for a presumption of €89_million. In 2016, the disabled persons occupied in a CET were 15,000, had increased, but of special difficulty there were only 9,500, 1,000 more than six years back, while other disabilities had risen to 5,599, that is to say, more than 2,000 more people, and the assumption that was to be distributed was 68_million. We've got a few up front. First, the revision of the model of protected work, which would have to consider three aspects: positive action in favour of people with special difficulties and revision of the model to guide it also to the special difficulty; second, to promote the social initiative without harm; third, to promote the proximity of the territory. And second of all, improving finance. Our group is clear that before a presuppositionary restriction, the solution cannot pass through a model change; or follow: "We need 100_millions, but as we have 80, we adapt the model. No, this can't go this way. This is why our proposals are aimed at ensuring that grant calls lead to positive discrimination, as envisaged in the 2010 Foundations, and to increasing funding. According to the calculations of the entities, we are talking about increasing the endowment in 40_millions. As the Socialist Group's motion remains, we will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.144.0	Thank you, Mrs. Lienas. Then, to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, has the word Lord Chakir the Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.145.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, compañeros and compañeros MPs and MPs, members of the board, before concretely entering into the project and the work done with the project, if he wanted to make a thank you, a thank you for the willingness to dialogue and to find consensus and to negotiate, especially with the deputy who pushed the motion, Mr Moreno, Mr Raúl, and also with other MPs with whom he touched, especially with Gabriela Serra, because also some lines of statements were similar, and we have been able among all delegations to try to reach an agreement. And I think that's good news. Secondly, and before I went directly into the papers, I did want to place a little debate, because I think it's important to place this debate. To remember the will and the work that has been done for more than a year around the protected work table, in the search for consensus between the various actors and the plurality of actors in the field of protected work and the special work centres in Catalonia. A job that has been done in the search for this dialog and that is still being done, and I think it is important, and various Members and Members have placed the plurality and differences between the same sector. I think it's important to remember this. And it's important to remember that all this work he's been looking for is an objective, that it's to agree on a model between everyone... And here I make a parenthesis. I was also amazed when Raúl spoke: "This young man is a model... No, no, the model went much further, and it is a model that needs to be discussed with actors and the sector. In Parliament, we're here with a young lady, and I've had a little bit... and in this sense I did want to reschedule it. And then the other big goal is to give response to the collection of special difficulties. And this was the will of the work that was done. And secondly we also remember that we have a lack of historical structural financing around special work centres, and that, with the finalist foundations of the sectoral conference..., they have donated themselves. And remember that, for the first time after many years, this year there has been an increase of the presupposition, from 68 to 80_million euros, 12_million euros, of which 35_million euros are propitious; something that does not make any other autonomous community. Also remember, because it's because, if not, we've got a debate going on. From here on, the debate and the criteria think they should focus on three points. To the center, the person; it must be the center of all the debate. Secondly, ensure everyone's help working on a TEC, ensure everyone's help. What we don't want to do is what they do to other places, which is: "I open the state call and, when it's over, it's over, and whoever's left is gone. We will not do this, and it is not to be done, and no government can do it. And in the third place, to improve social inclusion. From here and from these explained elements, we will support much of the movement, part that has worked and that we are absolutely in agreement and that we have been able to work all the folds: to demand the necessary and sufficient resources in the sectoral conference; the elimination of the topalls... Parentheses: all the present here know that the topalls have already been eliminated, it is very well, we stay in the youth, everyone is delighted; but let's not say that the youth makes the topalls disappear, the topalls are gone. Third element: the maintenance of the negotiation process and agreement; or, then, it is still with entities, in view of the convening of orders that are missing and in view of the model, because the model needs to be spoken to with all entities and well worked with all entities. Transparency surrounds the destiny of the foundations of the sectoral conference. The increase in insertion in the ordinary market. Parentheses: I also remember that we have doubled the requirement for insertion in the ordinary market, and I also remember that we get back help, that it was a long time before they were, to companies that make insertion of people with disabilities. And the empowerment of the social and cooperative economy TECs. Why? For its development in the territories, for its model of social inclusion, etcetera. All these parties will vote in favour, which is a large part of the House. Now, I'm telling you, we'll vote against two points. We'll vote against the first point, 'cause it got me, huh? I've been listening to everyone's speech and listening to some speeches I say: "It's that we should also vote... because, as it is written and as is the Spanish model, this first point that can be made is that we're out of CET when the funds are over, and we can't afford that. And we'll vote against it. We will also vote against the sixth point, because we think that right now we are talking about the 2018 assumptions..., let's hope, then, to see how it ended up designing and from here we will see... And we've already made an effort in the 2017 budget. And I'm sure that the government there, the government will make that effort in 2018. And then we'll do an abstention on the 1-a point. And I explain why it's also important, because we're working around the point that the USAP model and the general lines are the 2010 model, but what we can't guarantee is a copy-paste, because you can't make a copy-paste. Because the reality has changed, and because some elements that place this motion will force us to change elements. And then we're abstaining, because we're doing the general line; now, if what's planted is a copy-paste...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.146.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.147.0	...we won't. Excuse me, President, thank you very much. And thank you to all the deputies who have worked on this young man. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.148.0	Thank you, Mr. Homrani. Next, to fix his position, has the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Right now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.149.0	Thank you very much, President. And three points to start with. First, thank you to Congressman Raúl Moreno: you managed to agree from the PP to the CUP; therefore, congratulations on your summary. Secondly, thanks also to Deputy Chakir, because before we spoke in passing, and I say: "Well, I am glad that you voted against it, because it is better that you voted against it than you voted for it and then I do not complete it. I mean, it's more honest that, at least, I made the group's position clear. And for that reason, I think it's the parliamentary task. And finally, the honourable Member Gabriela Serra said something that seemed very interesting to me, she said: "It's not our model, because it's the Spanish model, and then she said – I didn't know, I did it after today – that who pushed this was the Ramon Trias Fargas, and I have added to me how many Spanish realities, good and not so good, they have catal emphasis and, therefore, they are also very much ours. And, as we enter the House, there is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that we are in a historic moment of outreach, transformation, transition from economic and social categories. And in this sense an economist prestige, which is Michael Porter, has published an essay that is called The Creation of Shared Value: how to reinvent capitalism and free up a wave of creation and knowledge. And before those who have always announced the fictitiousness of capitalism, the fictitiousness of the free economy of business and of the market, the one that he proposes..., two centuries ago they announced it, but what Porter proposed is a qualitative leap, is to say: "We rethink and reformulate the market economy, so that it is linked to social, economic and human development. And I, when I read this proposal, thought immediately about the special work centres, which are capable of creating economic value, value of profitability, value of efficiency, but also value of integration, social value, value of equality. And, therefore, the first one we have to do is to pay tribute to the people who have been pushing them to Catalonia for so many years, and especially now to the Dincat platform, which also accompanies us. And that's why we cost you, Counselor, to hear the erratic policy that the Counselor's office has followed. Because what they have done has only served to negate the sector and to put at risk the model that works. And I say it first and second, she advises: the unilateral way is always a bad way, also in the special work centers. That is to say, when you impose a model, this then causes major distortions. And I understand that you want to bet on inclusive work, and so do we. And this must be the priority path: inclusive work to the ordinary enterprise. And there's consensus about that. We must walk towards an inclusive economy, not only in the final redistribution, but also in its production processes. But what can't be is that we have 70_percent of people with workless disabilities– 70_per_cent– and that the structure that's working, which are the special work centers, we're putting them at stake right now. That's to say, escort, let's try to integrate these people into the ordinary market, 70_per_cent are pending, but save what already works for us, which is the lifeguard, yet it's still the structure that serves because many of these people can have a job integration. And do we have to rethink the special work centers? Yes, we have to; we cannot, as we say the other day, be ever-earthing runways; they must be avenues for these people with disabilities to move on to the ordinary enterprise. And that's not working well, and they all said it, right? And, therefore, we need to help ensure that there are real bridges as well as advisory bridges for ordinary businesses, transition bridges to the ordinary business. But what you haven't felt is that this year we have at least 1,000_million more in the budget, 200_million more in social policy and that we leave some special work centers with fewer tickets, that's to say, here's something that hasn't been done well and that needs to be rectified. Let us give priority to special disability, let us give priority to more intense disability, let us make progress, and I believe that in this sense the Socialist Group has found a good balance, which is to say: we guarantee a minimum, which establishes the law for everyone, and then we promote situations that are more delicate than others. The ministry must also do so; we will vote in favour of it, because we must be consistent, if we ask the Generality for more involvement, the ministry must also have it. This year we press an 8_per_cent, press the ministry an 8_per_cent, the transfer. It is not easy to conjugate, advise, all variables, all interests, but, of course, who told you that you are here to do easy things? That is to say, they are here to do this, which is very complicated and, moreover, today they have a full route approved almost unanimously for this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.150.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Then, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Mr. Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.151.0	Okay. Thank you all for your interventions. Telegraphically, because there's little time. I think... two fundamental considerations. First, at these times there is no alternative to Catalonia to include the ordinary enterprise of people with disabilities, there is no such thing. The CETs are currently the only option, not work, even life, of some people, most of the people who are living and working at the special work centres. It may be recalled, and someone has said, that the set of people with disabilities is in a state of emergency. If I said a model, then I didn't mean a model. Perhaps full of road also, with the circumstances that we have, it could be the definition, but we have, in some way, marked what we believe that most of this Parliament believes that the government should do in relation to whom the characteristics of the future model to be agreed with the entities in the sector must be. I also want to take one thing into account: when we talk about 33_per_cent, 55_per_cent, 75_per_cent disability, there are people with a 33_per_cent disability who cannot be included in the ordinary business, because they have some type of mental illness. For example, not everyone who has a 33_per_cent can be inserted into the ordinary business, and even all these people with a 33_per_cent may need a much higher minimum wage subsidy. Therefore, it is not a linear thing, but that every person and in every situation is producing, so, this, adjustments that must logically go to what our objective phone book is to be, that is that there are good working conditions and living conditions in our country, and that is why... And there is no turning point from the point of view of positioning, so here we also defend that we have to return to the model of 2010, which was a model with a different reality, it would just be missing! , but it was a model that at those times guarantees the rights of persons with disabilities in relation to their minimum interprofessional wage. So, I, in short, believe that a good job has been done. I think we can be happy if it's because we have had a very interesting debate and have filled in the situation of many people in our country who, from time to time, have difficulty because their Parliament is listening and talking about them, and I think we've done a good exercise today and I'm celebrating it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.152.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. [[Pause.]] Mr. The Homrani, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.153.0	President, for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.154.0	What points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.155.0	We call for a separate vote on point 1, 1a and 6. Point 1 and point 6 can be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.156.0	All right, thank you. [[Pause.]] Separate votes on points 1, 1a and 6 were requested. And points 1 and 6 can be voted together, okay? [[Pause.]] So, we'll start by voting points 1 and 6, together, after the 1st and after the rest of the vote. We vote, therefore, on points 1, 6 together. The vote begins. Points 1 and 6 were approved by 73 votes to 62, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 1-a-point. The vote begins. Point 1a was approved by 72 votes to one, with 62 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on special work centres was approved by 135 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the allocation of public resources to the organization of an illegal referral]] [[302-00153/11]] The new item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on the allocation of public resources to the organization of an illegal referendum, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.157.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs... The truth is that resorting to a motion that the only thing you ask is to respect the laws in a democratic parliament like this, then, shows a bad state of health of Catalan politics. We demand that competitions and tenders for electoral material intended for illegal referendums be halted, which is a democratic anomaly. We demand neutrality from the institutions that must ultimately represent all Catalans, including even a majority that wants to continue to bet on living together in a strong Spain, in a plural and, above all, European Spain. That is a clear deformity to which the independenceists, you, the independenceists, are subjecting to the political and social heritage of Catalonia. To demand that the Transparency Act, which you use to control the entire opposition in this Chamber, be complied with, but that however you continually jump to the end to make an absolutely opaque administration of government..., is a parliamentary indecency. Today we knew exactly that a counselor for three years has not had an agenda, which is at least surprising. Look, demanding in the end that public resources not be used by you to pay for your independence and illegal referendums is an obligation. It is an obligation that you don't spend money on party conferences all over the world, where in the end disaster, threat and ridiculous always go hand in hand. That is the unfortunate finding that in the end you have made everyone's money to satisfy just a few. Look, yesterday, in the control session, just yesterday, we had to attend a stupefied reaction of President Puigdemont irritated and stepping the accelerator on a slope and clearly without brakes. He incited violence. In fact, he suggested it, it seems that in his internal forum he was wishing for it, it was his only way out to that Democratic Convergence... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.158.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.159.0	Yeah, a little bit of respite. [[Give them the laugh.]] That exit, which was resorted to by a Democratic Convergence that had perpetuated and remained in power for decades, even yesterday the President, was, in the end, dedicated to sharing lessons of all kinds of democratic quality, of compliance with legal requirements. Come on, anyway, making your own that saying, huh? , of« lessons I give that to me I do not have. In April exactly eighteen months were completed. Eighteen months since independence self-imposed itself on that date to fly democracy under control. And he didn't make it. The only thing he has achieved is that this so-called « revolution of the sobries..., what he has shown us and what he has discovered is that he has many edges of authoritarianism. Authoritarianism of « non-compliance with judgments and laws, I also display it with all pride and satisfaction – as someone would say – « destining resources for independentist juergas with extras, with conferences of all kinds, with referendums of unilateral rupture, I reform the Regulation, I go through the lining of the Regulation to reform it and in addition to silence the entire opposition, I close laws of legal transitionality that, in the end, intend to apply in Catalonia almost – almost – a state of exception and I dedicate myself to making, therefore, lists of good, bad Catalans, of those officials who will suffer very much, the thousand plagues if they do not comply with my order and command. Come on, the most democratic thing we've ever seen. Authoritarian tics and edges. In the end, the worst thing that can happen to the Catalans is that the politician who supposedly represents them, who in this case is the president of the Generalitat, will end up being dragged away by events. And this is what's going on. The hurricane is totally out of control and is going to lead to a cataclysm with consequences we don't know. They want to force a disaster because they have decided to take away the look of those Catalans who suffer problems in their day-to-day life and who do not bet on the breakup as a way out of their inability to govern. They close their eyes to those who think differently and have refused to accept that they have neither the social majority they claim to have nor the legitimacy, nor to break this society even more, nor to break a country that is Spain. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.160.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word of Mr. Matías Alonso, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.161.0	Thank you very much, President. First of all, regret the lack of presence of the Government of the Generality, because this is a motion to the Government. But we have to say that this is a motion of which we can call the legislature. It's the recurring theme, our daily father, the saint we're back-to-it of the new 9-N. In fact, the raison d'être of Junts per el Si, even though you don't stay on his election program, let's remember. It was nothing more than a partisan report of the Catalan situation, the visit of the Convergence to the bass of Artur Mas and the separatist opportunism of the Left of Junqueras, with a few more independent than independent additions, with which the main chapter was a full road, a new full road to independence. Because Together for the Yes is nothing more than an alliance for the no, for the no to a social majority of Catalans, for the no to Spain, and, as a consequence, for the no to Europe. It was only intended to make a reference to approve the supposed new Catalan constitution. That is to say, unilateral way of independence on the margin of democratic order and bring it by reference, also unilateral, as it could not otherwise be. I repeat: not to the sociological majority and, after 27 September 2015, to the majority of Catalans who are going to hand over their democratic mandate to the polls; not to Spain, maintaining the unilateral will to break it, and not to Europe because, even though they want us to see the contrary, before democrats are nationalists and separatists. Let's talk about democracy. It should not be necessary, but it is essential in an autonomy such as Catalan in which the concept of democracy is permanently perverted as it stands in the context of the democracies consolidated in the 21st century. We are in the middle of a representative democracy, under an order proclaiming a social and democratic state of right. In short, a democracy like all of us, in which the primacy of the Constitution, as the Venice Commission reminded us a few weeks ago, is indisputable. Therefore, and to sum up in a few words, the electoral programme that the Government of the Defence has no room for manoeuvre on the margins of the Spanish Constitution, the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy and the laws that will come into being. Constitution and Statute, which can certainly be reformed from established legal procedures, but which, as it cannot otherwise be, have no room for manoeuvre for populist rights. These days are talking a lot in this Parliament of democratic quality. We've heard President Puigdemont and some councillors and deputies from Junts to speak, to say the least, of totalitarianism. In fact, the majority of Parliamentarians who support this government have grown old because the commission of inquiry that is being used to support the government's propaganda does not have dissuasive views. Among others, comparisons proposed for Ciutadans have been prevented. The lack of pluralism, democratic transparency, has also become apparent with the blocking of the Vidal investigation committee. The separatist clamp has full yield. But they don't want us to be packed with moray wheels. Look, I'll give you two information that you know for sure, even though they don't want to spread in the public media that they control to the service of their propaganda, both of them, from The Economist. On September 19, 2015, The Economist published an article in which he talked about the fatigue of the Diada and the intention to maintain institutional disloyalty by Junts for the Yes. This article said clearly: "It is unlikely that Catalonia will be separated, but regional nationalist parties will continue to fuel political tensions. Precise and uncertain reading of The Economist. We've been telling them for a long time: we see it often with our European partners, if they've seen it, they've kept them quiet. Returning to The Economist, enguany The Economist Intelligence Unit has published, as usual, the Index of Democracy 2016, a report that has subtitled The Revenge of Deplorables; a report that evaluates the democratic indicators of 165 states of the world. Bad news for the Government of the Generalitat: that Spain is a state of totalitarian fall does not fit in this index. Spain is a full democracy and occupies the place of all the states assessed, before the United States and France, to cite two consolidated democracies of reference. Mirin, of course our social and democratic state of law is better, of course the quality of governance of Spanish public institutions – central, autonomous and local – is better. So much so, yes. We're working to improve them, and we'll keep doing it. But we are opposed to the separatism that is claimed to be hegemonic in Catalonia, which is intended to break everything. We, Ciutadans, are indeed united, yes we are going to pray: yes to Catalonia, yes to Spain, yes to Europe and the rest of our democratic environment. This is the only route. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.162.0	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.163.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members of Parliament, well, certainly, in the course of the last intervention, it must be noted that the absence in the 1978 Constitution of some foresight, some mechanism, some clause allow secession from one part of the territory is not a rare one, from the point of view of the constitutional right compared to the constitutions not only Europeans, but also from the conjunction of the democratic constitutions that are in force today. In fact, there are very few valid constitutions that contain clauses providing for these circumstances. And so, from this point of view, it's not, I said, not just a rare one, but it's not a democratic deficit, in this sense. In fact, in many of the visits that the Diplomat organizes to Catalonia, many of the parliamentarians who visit us and who are interested in the question of Catalonia one of the first questions that I raise is: « Does its constitution provide for a supposition such as that which is raised in Catalonia? And, obviously, the answer is no, because of the current constitutions I believe, and I quote from memory, that only Ethiopia and Saint Kitts and Nevis have specific forecasts for this issue, which is one of the possible outputs, obviously a constitutional forecast respects this. And what is being raised in Catalonia, on the part of the Catalan citizenry, is a difficult question to resolve, which in many cases has found a political solution in democratic terms, so that there are no recent examples, such as the Kingdom Unit respects the question of Scotland or Canada respects the question of Quebec. In any case, we could agree that the democratic consensus is something relatively fragile, that requires that a large majority of citizens living in a country recognize, grant that their institutions are once legitimate and representative, and that the attempt to perpetuate a certain institutional configuration – we do not consider that there is a significant part of the population, even in the case of Catalonia, concentrated territorially that somehow these institutions are less legitimate and representative than before – it is a first-class political error. But in the same way, it is a political error of first order to consider that it can completely obviate the Status, the Constitution, skip the laws and choose a unilateral way. I've told you a few times since this Faristol: the independenceists use the half-hour, often, of jumping the wall, as if the Spanish State itself, or the law itself, were an obstacle and I could jump it. Okay. We assume that part of the citizens of Catalonia decide that this is actually to be done and therefore follow the proclamation of an independent Catalan hypothetical state and consider that the institutions of this independent Catalan hypothetical state are legitimate and representative. But a significant part of the Catalan population... – which I am not dedicated to sifting, because it is not the most important at this time –, a significant part does not consider that they are legitimate and representative institutions, but considers that they are derived from the Statute of Autonomy and the Constitution of 78. So, we have a top-notch political problem, a very difficult problem to manage, and the responsible ruler should want to take us to a situation like this, where some citizens consider that legitimate institutions are one another and another considers that they are one another. Because the right is left with a lot of resources to solve this issue. And then we go to the imposition, on one side or another, of situations of fact; which is obviously a conflictive scene that everyone here would want to avoid from everyone. That said, obviously, with some of the demonstrations made by the motion proposed by the PP, we can't just agree. That is to say, as institutions act according to the standards which, in fact, give them legitimacy, which they believe. On the other hand, there are some questions we can't agree with. I'm telling you very quickly because I'm running out of time. In the first place, we presented a statement respecting paragraph 2.c, which was not admitted. And, therefore, in the terms in which it is written, we cannot share it. And we would like to reiterate that the Institute for the Study of Self-Government has not devoted itself solely to the improvement of the self-government of the Government of Catalonia or to the study of the improvement of the self-government of the Government of Catalonia within the constitutional and statutory framework, but that, as the institute of studies it is, it must be able to propose or study any proposed institutional organization of Catalonia and in relation to Spain. So, also, obviously – as he had historically done and continues to do, even with more moderation – study systems of federal type, for example, eh? , not to mention that they can obviously study other questions. Therefore, these two aspects we do not share; with the rest, we can agree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.164.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Next, to fix his position, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.165.0	Thank you, Madam President. You're going here to clean up the goods, you're going here to the P.P.'s pyramids offering themselves as firefighters. This is the image that gave us this angelic motion presented to the Popular Group. Obviously, you have all the legitimacy to do it, legitimacy of the votes of the deputies. But this young man..., and the People's Party with this subject has a hard moral authority problem, which is important; little moral authority to cry out to the compliment of the law and to the seny. It has been the party that for years has used, and continues to do, territorial and national conflict for the benefit of its own supporters. It has articulated all its political project on the axis of conflict towards the national claims of Catalonia. He instrumentalized and colonized the Constitutional Court. Certainly, we are not alone in competing conflicts with Catalonia, also in issues of strong social decline such as, for example, labour reform. The PP has played to bring the conflict to a dead end during all these years. I don't want to, and I can't do it with Mr. Rajoy. He's a fake. In fact, it is: "I don't want to, because I don't care. The PP and the Spanish Government know that it is possible within the constitutional order to hold a reference consultation to know the opinion of the citizens of Catalonia. I have expressed prestigious constitutionalists: the one who was vice president of the Constitutional Court, Rubio Llorente; finally, the year 2012, ja, Francesc de Carreras, one of the ideas of Ciutadans. Ho has said the last sentence of fa scarcely a few weeks of the Constitutional Court, on the Law of referendums of the Catalan Government of 2010, which literally says the following: "In short, the referendum of inferior scope to the state is not an abnormal or strange instrument in the states of composite structure of our environment. And, then, clearly explains the way of Article 92 of the Constitution, through the development of the State Law of Referendums. In the most complex scenario, with a small modification of the 1980 Law of Referendums it would be possible to open a way of resolving the conflict; if not, to allow us to know the opinion of the city of Catalonia through a reference consultation. It is not, therefore, that the Constitution forbids it, it is that you do not want because they do not care. Because they're interested in keeping this conflict open, because they feed politically: it's like people's area, you live from it. The PP uses the territorial unit of Spain to cover the social breakdown of the country as a consequence of its policies. Unfortunately, in this he is not alone and curiously shares some of these plans with some of his supposed adversaries. It is known that Catalonia Yes, it can be critical of how to conduct the referendum on behalf of the Catalan government, especially how the government systematically fails to complete Parliament's agreements. It is not democraticly acceptable that when three_months are missing by the announced date of the reference, we do not have the rule to give legal coverage to this reference – it is not democraticly acceptable, and we give it to the Government. We are now seeing – and I want to take advantage of this motion to reassure many people – that a lot of people are worried about what Catalonia will do Yes, it is Pot and what media calls the common ones. The answer is very simple: when the Catalan government presents a law, a rule and its plan to celebrate the referendum, then we have something to say about. While at the moment we only have speculations, leaks, smokes, manipulations and headlines, and escas respect democracy. Our position as a group has been clear since the first moment. We have expressed this in the resolution of the Parliament of Catalonia on 6 October; with the Law of Presuppositions, and, later, with the proposal to seek the recognition of the Venice Commission: I support a reference that is included in the Catalan society, with guarantees for citizens and public employees, that has legal effect and that seeks international recognition in order to overcome, precisely, the recalcitrant opposition of the Spanish State. If you don't have these conditions, I'm sorry, but that's not going to be a reference, it's not going to be a 9-N bis, it's going to be something else, and someone's going to have to explain it. The PP's motion ignores some important things; for example, that the resolution of the referendum approved by Parliament on October 6 passed our proposal continuing fully in force because even the government dared to challenge it before the Constitutional Court, or that it recognizes that the referendum is possible. Nor in its logic of denying politics and judicializing conflicts can the PP ignore that buying ballot boxes cannot be considered a crime for the mere fact that it is thought or has been said propagandistically that they will be used for the reference. Fortunately, there are no crimes of thought or intent in our country. As you can see, we might agree with one magic thing: respect the law. How angelic this layout is, and how necessary it is at the same time. But you know that in your proposal, your young man is not only full of traps, but lacks the moral authority to be presented. In summary: we have a thousand and one reasons to vote against this young man. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.166.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Then has the word "Mireia Boya", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.167.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, President. We had made a statement of total suppression of all the motion and replacement for a single point that I would say: "The Parliament of Catalonia urges the Government of the Generality to allocate all the necessary resources to organize and convene a self-determination referendum before the end of September 2017 in order to listen to the people of Catalonia. Ras and short. But as it wasn't our young lady, and besides, this had already been approved at the general policy debate, so we didn't do it. In fact, as I said, this has already been approved by the general policy debate and what has happened is that this judicial branch of the state political power, which is the Constitutional Court, has suspended it, for a variety of reasons, as a number of laws approved by this chamber, which represents the sovereignty of all Catalans, as you say to the young lady. I'm not going into the legal debate, because I'm tired. So, I'm tired of discussing what's legal and what's not legal, and we're not going to get into this nonsense anymore that you like it so much. I think it would be nice to start saying things by his name. You are legitimately defending territorial integrity and as you have done for decades, starting on July 18th. And we are defending that the Catalan people can democratically decide their future, also legitimately, at the polls, with papers and with a self-determination referendum. Then it is a question of territorial integrity versus democracy or, if we want to put it another way, it is territorial integrity versus right to self-determination. And that's the problem. Stop talking about legalities, 'cause you don't feel it. We are prepared to vote in a unilateral referendum and this Parliament has already decided to ask the Government to use all the resources necessary for its organization and celebration, and that is the point at which we are now. So, stop repeating to us, let them get very tired, ja. The question is: what are you willing to do so as to legitimately maintain the territorial integrity of the Spanish State? What will they be filled with? And you don't think we're aware of the state of mind they want to create with the repetition of the same song with us, which you call "the terrorists of the UPC," and also with independence in general, which you call the "attacks." Well, a striker, if you were here, in this room, would carry a tricorn, would say to "Stay everyone! Sit the fuck down! That's a banger from a Faristol. The people of Catalonia who are manifest peacefully, civically, massively on the street, this 80 percent people who want to vote in a referendum, are not hit. And we will not be silent, neither we nor the singers that you want to denounce and that made this concert to Badalona in favor of freedom of expression, and it is that, in the end, those who call themselves accomplices, the silences are accomplices, and here you are the only word that we cannot be suspended or annulled by judicial means is the word "freedom, because we will never give up. And in this young man you are talking a lot about public resources, and I am very grateful, because the authoritarian regime that is the Spanish State has no problem spending on its assumptions of EUR 7.2 million for the "French death guard". And you're talking about legality, and this criminal organization that is the State has been acting for years and years on the margins of the law using huge amounts of funds reserved in the so-called "Operation Catalonia" in this desperate attempt to use corruption as a lever to end the independence movement, and they haven't realized yet that it's not a matter of politics or corruption, but it's a question of the people asking it from the street and that it's working as never before. And they're also talking about transparency, and they still don't know what money is spent on the handsome's family and the preparation that hasn't sorted out democraticly. And they also speak on the grounds of impartiality, and they have no sense in using courts and prosecutors to file disputes to allow debate in this chamber or to bid, in the same way that Andalusia does, buying ballot boxes. Do all the motions you want. They serve absolutely nothing, because before the closure of the regime and the totalitarian attitudes that you have, the democrats go to one and there are all at the end of September, the yes, the no, the "inadequate, the sovereignists, the federalists, because we all want a republic and the question will be: where will you be – if you will be – the PSC's lords? Will we be you, lords of Ciutadans? No whispers or threats, because that's what you do all the time. And finally, we are clear: we are Catalans with a vote and we do not have to use it. We're already asking the question. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.168.0	Thank you, Miss Boya. The words of Mr Roger Torrent, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.169.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, MPs, MPs... Mrs. García, I honestly think you've wasted your time. He has dedicated an effort, it is true, to making this young man, who has a few points; it is not the longest, too, to say, but it is true that he has devoted a time to making a few points, to planting a young man who could have ventilated with a single sentence, with a single idea. This young man could have been ventilated with the idea that you would do everything possible to prevent democracy. This is the summary of this young man. That's the idea I've come up with, the synthesis of what you've presented here today: they'll do everything in their power to avoid democracy. And that's not exactly what democracy is all about, they're demophobic. If not, if it is not with a pathology of this type, this allergy to democracy, it would not explain everything they do to prevent the ballot box, to prevent democracy. They're allergenic to the polls. It's a demophobic state. A demophobic state that even suggests that the fact that there are ballot boxes can generate a bad image at the international level. And while they happily fund the Francisco Franco Foundation. This is the demophobic state, this is the right state as you understand it. That's how they understand democracy. They understand democracy in this way, and they understand it with quarrels, threats, courts, prosecutors who fine. So you understand democracy in this demophobic state. They threaten every day on the ground, sea and air. They threaten through the vice president of the Spanish Government, through the president, through the prosecution, through the prosecutors, through the courts they threaten every day. And today you have the bar to come out here and say that the president incites violence. You have to keep a lot of bars, see the antecedents and see the statements that we hear the day after they threaten us to want to vote, threaten us to protect democracy, threaten us to listen to the people of Catalonia, you have to keep a lot of bars to come here and say that, above all, we incite to violence. They're demophobic, they have allergy in the ballot box. And more so, now, apart from the threats, apart from feeling each day as we are, lately, later on, fix – you know perfectly well but vagina looking at the hemerotheque, vagina looking at the statements, the speeches they make in this Faristol – lately – they were also told by Congresswoman Boya – we are told that they were hit. Lately they try to assimilate a democratic process, a legitimate process, a peaceful process with a coup d'état. And that's not free. That's not random. What they're doing, what they're trying to do with this speech is justifying you to know what answer; what they want is legitimizing you to know what reaction. But they won't put up with it. They won't put up with the people. They won't put up with the citizens of this country who want to vote. Ep, as well as all of his voters who also ask to make the reference. They won't stop it. They won't stop democracy. Despite the threats, despite the courts, despite this demophobia, despite this state of law which only speaks of courts, prosecutors and courts, which is only a demand, democracy will not stop. And I finish, Mrs. Garcia, asking you a simple, easy question. In fact, you have three minutes to answer it. I'm doing it to you as a representative of the People's Party, but in any case, we would have to do it at the People's Party and above all at the state's instigations. The question is simple: what do they think they are doing to put up with so much democracy? How do you think you're gonna do it? The question is simple, the question is easy: what do they think they are doing to stop Catalans and Catalans from voting? In fact, the summary, I insist – and I finish as it began – the summary of his motion is: "We will do everything possible to prevent Catalans from voting, we will do everything possible to prevent democracy. This is the summary of her young lady. And the summary of our answer is: "We will do everything we can to put the ballot boxes, we will do everything we can to convince the Catalans and the Catalans that we can decide our future freely. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.170.0	Thank you, Mr. Torrent. To pronounce on the exams has the word Mrs. Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.171.0	Well, see, where do I have him... Mr. Coscubiela, I have him sitting here and he's not talking from the pulpit that you use to hand out morale books. To be an atheist, it must be said that you always like to talk about morality, authority and discipline, I don't know whether apostolic or what. When you talk about colonizing constitutional courts, the truth is that I'm very grateful, isn't it? Because, among other things, our Constitutional Court has given it very often to the Government of the Generality with competitive resources and, for another group, it does not cease to be an organ that is named and names its magistrates very much like the countries around us. In fact, even Germany in the name of fifty-fifty per senate and per congress, right? , and we introduce the General Council of the Judiciary. What I am surprised at is that it is about barbarity, as the People's Party finally says, is very much interested, so to speak of this threat of rupture of what is Spanish and of this threat that the Government of the Generality carries to the end of making a unilateral reference of independence, because that is how to say that the radical left which it wants in its deepest interior is that it never ended with the poor because, if not, they would cease to exist as such politically. It's barbaric. The People's Party that interests it, and I see that the content of the motion has been very well understood, is to guarantee democracy; to guarantee the rights of all; to guarantee the constitutional order and the statutory order and to do so as far as democraticly advanced countries such as Germany, France or the United States are concerned. This is the proposal of the People's Party Government, to ensure that there is no one feeling over laws and rights that we have recognized all the citizens of Spain. For which reason, there are a couple of elements that have come forward..., we have not accepted them for a question: in the end, it is so easy to gather that it is respectful of the laws, that it is paralysing illegal references, that it requires the institutions to represent us all and that there are no secrets for the parties, that we understand that stylistic issues do not fit. Cal, it's either good to pick up or it's good to reject. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.172.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. We're done with the debate, we're calling for a vote. [[Pause.]] Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.173.0	For contradictions with Mrs. Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.174.0	For allusions, isn't it? Or because of contradictions? [[Pause.]] So, okay, for contradictions. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.175.0	Yeah. Mrs. Esperanza García, I said I had explained very badly. I said you don't have moral authority, and that's not a Jewish Christian concept, it's the author of the classics. To do things, you have to have authorities, and you, on the subject of respect for the law, and above all in not wanting to use conflict as you use it to live politically, you have very few authorities – of the classics, not of the Jewish Christians. Is that what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.176.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.177.0	For clear contradictions of Mr. Coscubiela. Listen, you see, the People's Party...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.178.0	Thirty...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.179.0	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.180.0	No, no. I own it for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.181.0	Yes, yes – he lost. The People's Party doesn't use laws for good, so you do when you get to the institutions, and what they do is do everything against what they promised their voters, skipping the laws and using public channels for issues that they have a lot to see with parties and little public service.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.182.0	Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.183.0	To ask for separate vote, from the letters c and d of point 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.184.0	Can they vote together? 2.c and 2.d, can they vote together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.185.0	To ask for a separate vote on point c of point 2, and, therefore, they could not vote together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-01-3602.186.0	A separate vote has been requested on points 2.c and 2.d, which should be voted on separately. So, we start by voting 2.c, 2.d and after the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, we vote on point 2.c. The vote begins. The 2.c_point was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 83 against and 40 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 2.d. The vote begins. The 2.d_point was rejected by 36 votes to 83, with 15 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on the allocation of public resources to the organisation of an illegal referendum was rejected by 51 votes in favour, 83 against and no abstentions. [[Some applause.]] Thank you all very much. And the session goes up.
