ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you. [[Proposal for the creation law of the Catalan Social Protection Agency]] [[202-00034/11]] The fourth point of the order of the day is: debate and vote on the opinion of the Labour Commission on the proposal for a law creating the Catalan Agency for Social Protection. According to Article 121 of the Rules of Procedure, it has the word, in the first place [[Funnel veils]] I'm told the rapporteur's resignation. The parliamentary groups will therefore intervene, all the same, to defend their reserved agendas. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr. Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.2.0	President, Members, Members. Counselor, "It is still today. Let me start with this sentence by Antonio Machado, for two reasons. One, to honor the memory of one of our great poets days after, in my city, in Sabadell, the sectarianism, fanaticism and supremacism of a councilwoman of the Republican Left Government and a pseudohistorian linked to sovereignist entities tried to erase that of our streets. [[Some applause.]] Secondly, because it is still today, and after yesterday's day, I think it is more than obvious, because today is always leading us to be responsible for the decisions we make today, accepting that their consequences extend to the future forever. We take on that responsibility, and that is why I am telling you that we are going to vote 'no to this cobbler in the form of a law. I'm going to set out some of these arguments – only some, as others became evident, too, during yesterday's day. Look, a year ago I started defending our entire amendment with a definition of what is, in therapeutic terms, a placebo. Let me remind you of this definition, coming from the medical world: a placebo is a substance that lacks curative action, but produces a therapeutic effect if the patient takes it convinced that it is a truly effective medicine. This law maintains the essence of the best placebos in the process. Thus, it lacks curative action, that is, it is empty of an effective content, but if the one who consumes it does not know it and makes it convinced that it has it, it may seem effective. How many passages from this science - fiction account that we are living in these last years, months, days, hours would go into that description? We stayed, once again, outside that placebo consumer club, even at the risk of not living and enjoying that Matrix that opens up every day a spa of national sensations in this Parliament. He was talking about cod, a creative cod, that's right, because Junts pel Yes and the CUP have been able to elucidate a kind of bulging shell that, as a mythological animal, is half will of disconnection and half autonomic agency. It is undoubtedly a cowardly law, showing a way of doing that has been repeated during this legislature. So, this law is not part of the Government, which would have been consistent, and, instead of a bill with Ms Bassa's signature, we have a text that was saved by, for example, the CTESC, but what does it matter? CTESC, Warranty Board... What does it matter? It is an inefficient, expensive law, a law that is not going to solve the problems of unified management of all social services and that, in fact, does not contribute absolutely anything to the functions already performed by the ICASS, institute that Convergence and Esquerra Republicana decided to eliminate in 2014 without, then, creating an alternative, because then you then cut, also, together: joints per les retailades, at that time. Remember? And it is that the cynicism with which they act is inexhaustible. They wanted a headline – in fact, I'm afraid they only cared about that – the title of the agency they're going to create. That and say it's a law of disconnection, one more. That is to say, because of this, that there was not much to be agreed to, that this law has put some problems on the table, but without any content, the agreement has been reached between three parties that seemed to have important differences in management policies and social policies. But, well, in the end – as has already been said, I think, at some point – everything remains at home. And it is that if someone has dedicated to the social unprotection of Catalans, if someone has conditioned, with policies of cuts, the welfare of Catalans, if someone has starred in the greatest social rights cut that this society has lived in forty years of democracy – I repeat, forty years of democracy – those have been the proponents of this law. You have been the cause of the suffering of thousands of Catalans. They lack the legitimacy to use the word protection, but illegitimacy becomes almost offensive when what they are talking about is social protection. Only the placebo effect can explain that someone can take this proposal seriously. If they wanted to work for social protection, they could, for example, have updated the portfolio of social services, which, as a year ago, in the full debate, we continue to call for them to be updated and which remains among their procedural priorities since 2010, Mrs Consellera. Or they could have deployed the Accessibility Act, or perhaps the Children's and Adolescents' Rights and Opportunities Act as a whole – we've been waiting for six years – or explained the proceedings in the face of serious deficiencies in the DGAIA, rather than waiting for Ciutadans to be the one who had to force a solution. They could have worked on a personal autonomy bill, which they have been announcing since the time of Councillor Cleries. Or something simpler: to really equip and deploy the law in its entirety for LGTBI rights. Working on all that would have been working for the social protection of Catalans, but you prefer to build artifacts like today's. And inaction is obvious. Some peculiarities are added to their way of legislating, but, in principle, we want to comment on them – I think it is obvious – that we can add a lot more reasons to be able to vote than not. We believe – and we must specify this – that it is necessary to create a collaborating and managing social security entity that effectively unifies the coordination of social benefits to Catalan citizens; an agile, dynamic and flexible entity that has a lot of ICASS, but also that must be able to adapt to the reality of the 21st century in many respects. In that regard, we believe that the presentation of this law could not end up creating an efficient law, because that was not its objective, because it was not going to be a sincere or loyal debate or that it valued the ability to generate synergies. That is why we have not participated in the presentation and that is why we have not come to appreciate the joint text of the PSC and Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, which we have placed at future meetings, which are hardly going to be or could be in this legislature. That is why we are already telling you that we will abstain altogether from all the amendments that are still alive from the presentation, and that we will be considering the subsequent amendments to the opinion of the Guarantee Board, so we will vote in favour of some of them. And we have already announced – I think you know this – that we have tabled one of them in order to safeguard or try to safeguard certain legal certainty – a concept that I suppose can be even laughable in these days, legal certainty – with an amendment that we believe reflects the essence of the opinion, which warns you of the competence of this law. We're going to visualize today how an opportunity to have a law of all fades, and it fades due to Junts' desire for yes and the CUP to build a new placebo bulwark. All we need now is a genuine ballot box, the ballot box of an autonomous election, and thank you for making us so resilient to yourselves that you have taught us to persevere, to walk along the stones on which this Government has become for all Catalans and to wait for the moment. When that moment comes, we will turn off tonight that we have lived, that we are living, that we are going to live, to ignite an illusion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.3.0	Thank you very much, Mr. García. The words of Mrs Eva Granados, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.4.0	Thank you, President. President, advisors, deputies and deputies, I take the word to defend the items that we keep alive in this Law of the Catalan Social Protection Agency, a little Guadiana law, because we did the whole debate in July 2016, then it was kept in a covet, in November we managed to make some appearances, which cost a lot, because we were told the promoters groups that were to be very quick, that it was very urgent and that had to be approved immediately. This was in November, and almost a year later we made this final debate of the Law of the Catalan Social Protection Agency. To make a bit of a memo to the deputies and the deputies, the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the Socialist Parliamentary Group we did not oppose this law, but we wanted a social protection agency – we considered and considered that Catalonia needs a social protection agency – but we understood that the text proposed by the Groups of Joints for the Yes and the CUP was not the agency that Catalonia needs. And, therefore, what we did was a question with alternate text. This item was dropped by the majority, and then the experts came to the committee. And the experts, unanimously, told us what we understand to be in this whole question with alternative text, but the Junts for the Yes and the CUP groups, unfortunately, have not listened to the experts. And, therefore, today the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is the Socialist Group, too, that we are keeping these points alive in the joint, that what they draw is what we consider to be the social protection agency that our country needs. I still don't know..., because, just as it has been a Guadian process, so the majority's speech for what it does to this law has also been ambivalent – sometimes it's a law of rupture, a law of state structure, sometimes it's an autonomous law – so now, when you talk, we'll know how you want to sell it. In any case, what we do have is a long-standing Constitutional Court ruling that said that, obviously, Catalonia can have a social protection agency as other autonomous communities do, and as was provided for in the Social Services Act, which was approved unanimously more than two years ago in this Parliament, which already provided an agency to manage these services. I want to give it a little rest, because, as the law does not have much content... already the progress that we would vote against the opinion; that we would obviously vote in favour of our social protection agency, and that we would abstain from the papers presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. We've been responsible, we've been involved in the pose, we've wanted to convince the majority group of our model. And what we can see – or at least it's the judgment that we make today in this faristol – is that there is no willingness, for the majority group, to make a good governance of social services, of social services to our country, and that, therefore, the only one they make is a more important contribution to this of the Catalan Republic. And, therefore, what they're bringing us here today is an administration of a social protection agency that doesn't say well what it's going to manage or how it's going to manage. It makes clear that they will not relate to those agents, to those administrations that are giving their faces, that are in the trench, that are the local world, that are the basic social services of our assemblies. And, therefore, there is no priority, on the part of the majority group, for the better social protection of our country, there is no will of the majority group to prioritise these policies. And that is why we must note that, after a few years of convergence and union government..., PDECAT, gathered for, in this case, Republican Left, in Catalonia we lack more than 1,380_million who have stopped dedicating themselves to social policies. And that is no longer law or articles, but it is euros that have stopped dedicating themselves to the most vulnerable people, to the people who need our country the most. This is a 7_per_cent less than it was in 2010, and we have to see that Catalonia has a low – a low – social protection. In Catalonia we have 1,650,000 people who are at risk of poverty, and this law, at the time of lawmaking, has not thought about them, nor has it in what way the public servants of our country, our government and local administrations can help to make the situation of these people a little better than they have at these times. He said we've lost a decade in social investment, and, counsel, for his part... there are more than 400,000 people in Catalonia who have a severe material deprivation. This is the situation we have, for the most part epic that we want to lay down these historical days that we have. And what we know is that it has only been thanks to the social initiative, to the gathering of signatures from the ILP commission for guaranteed income, that there is a leap forward in this country; it is not thanks to the will or the priorities of the parties that govern this country. This is why it does the situation of social protection, where one of the two children is in a poor situation, where one of the four children with children is in a poor situation, where one of the four children at home is in a poor situation. Well, that would be the country's objective situation, but we can get to the part that we have, which is the management of social services and how social services govern our home. So, point out: the portfolio of social services has changed for the last tripartite, for the Government of the Left, in 2010, and from then on this Parliament must have voted forty times that it will reform this portfolio of social services and we still expect it. And if this is at the structural level, which is what benefits and what services we provide to these more than 1,400,000 people who are at risk of poverty, we have operating documents..., which, in this case, is the relationship between the social welfare department, social action department, and the assemblies, and each year they will renew some contracts in which, counsel, this year we are a little late, because they are still unsignatory. This is the derailment situation that we have of governance in the social services. And today they come here with a law that they say about the social protection agency, and they're going to tell us that they're going to fix everything, but it's that you see, that with what they have between their hands, they don't get caught up. And this is the situation we have: a fever in social services. And what's more important – we said it when we did the totality debate and also came out in the appearances of representatives of the local world – that in Catalonia there are many territorial inequities, because since the Government of the Generality is not protecting its own, it is not guaranteeing the social services that are in the service portfolio approved for this Parliament, it is the joints that must fill this lack. And, of course, in the same poor situation you can find that, depending on the municipality where you are, on the willingness of the economic capacity of that municipality, you will have one protection or another. So, I don't know what they're going to say. I suppose they'll come to say that the agency will solve everything, but it's now that they can solve it and now the laws that we have at these times in force are not being completed, nor with the resources that the vice president..., in the economic note, tell us that the generality's tax revenues are increasing by 10_per_cent; therefore, it's seen that you don't have to be very priority, attend to this 1,400,000 people. I was giving them the status of social protection, and so was the breakdown, and now I'd also like to fix a little bit of what he's been spending these years at our house doing regulation in social services. We've done everything possible because it's developed in the laws, because it's reformed the portfolio of services, but the only one that this government has done was to dismantle the ICASS, to repeal the ICASS, and now they also want to sell us..., I suppose they also want to do with the social protection agency something similar to what was planned and that the left government left in the department because they could do this territorialization, and you left it and decided to repeal it. I say to you: very epic, a lot of sales of state structure, but the situation is that in our house there is neither a governance nor a protection of social services. The things that we have presented..., what we want to do is to make this governance, is to make a system that is well connected with those who are caring for the people who have these needs, and, therefore, a system that is very territorialized and that has a shared governance, in governance, with the local world. They didn't like it, they didn't accept any of us, but we still think that what we need in Catalonia is a unique window for people who have these needs. We need a shared social history and we need that from basic social services, through this agency that we in the world serve people, we can recognize these benefits because we can deal more effectively. It wasn't like that. Fortunately, they have accepted one of the proposals that had been made by the local world, which is to incorporate them into the rule of law, but it is clear that we will not solve this. Now we have important debates about the table. We ended up, before the summer, approving the guaranteed income of citizenship. We're nine days away from her outpost; we don't know the guaranteed income deployment decree, but in theory this social protection agency should help us with the governance of guaranteed citizenship income. Because it will come to us now as if this agency will solve everything, but, if they remember it, a few weeks ago here was approved the Law of Guaranteed Income and no one knows, this service, this guaranteed income of citizenship..., your social work insertion itineraries, as they relate to this social protection agency. Therefore, it is no longer the theory, it is no longer the epic, it is no longer the structures of the state, it is no longer the governance, it is no longer the objective situation of social protection in our country, but on the concrete issues, on which it is now to be set up, on which this Parliament has approved and which we have all celebrated, which was the law of guaranteed citizenship income... we also know how it will be set up and how it will interact with this social protection agency. The same goes for us, too... employers and trade unions did not come, who did not get used to showing up together, but were here, at the gates of Parliament, talking about when we would start talking about the situation of large people's residences in our country. Perhaps it would also be hot for this social protection agency to give us an answer. So they can look for it, but they won't find it in the text they approved today, even though now they're telling us that it's going to be fantastic and that we're going to solve everything. In short, for us this law that will be approved today – and that will not count on our support, even though we believe that Catalonia needs this agency of social protection, I say again – it is empty of content, it is an administrative content, it does not define the model of social services that we want for our country and it does not rationalize services, when we have approved many times also in this Parliament. And there's one thing I want to point out to end up and that the unions and the employers also told us: the social protection agency, as it affects the socio-economic sphere, should have been dictated by the Labour Council, the Economic and Social Council of our country, and, therefore, the unions and employers should have said... Because after you will tell us that it is to manage the benefits of work and to manage pensions. So, you see that in this Catalan Republic there is no social dialogue either, because if you want to use one of its pillars without taking into account..., when you... the Guarantee Board does not leave them and the Constitutional Court either, but you say: "Of all the skills that we have..., and you see that in order to have the skills of social services, pensions and unemployment benefits..., here the unions and employers have nothing to say. We have submitted subsequent opinions, because the opinion of the Guarantee Board, which we also jointly called on the Catalonian Group Yes, it is Pot and the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we wanted you to clarify exactly what it is that it is possible to do and what it is not possible to do. And that's why we've made subsequent considerations, that what they do is clarify this legal technique of these ambiguous writings that you don't know where they are, which is the regulation where this law is, so it's clear that Catalonia needs a social protection agency, that it needs it and that it can take it for the skills we have at these times. But it is clear that the majority group is not thinking of the Catalans or their needs, but of this epic of this Catalan republic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.5.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Granados. The words "Mr. Joan Coscubiela", on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.6.0	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Conclude today the processing of a law that, cautiously, I think we could qualify as having been all the less rigorous in its processing and useful in its final outcome. For this reason, and above all for the content with which it is put to the vote, our group would vote against it. It is a vote against that, for those who sometimes insist that there are no alternative proposals, you know that you have been accompanied from the first moment of an absolutely active and responsible attitude of our group – in this case, together with the Socialist Group – to present an alternative that we have formulated in the form of a threat to the totality with alternative text. Because we are and continue..., we were in its moment, we were pioneers of this approach, but we continue to feel it at this moment, firm supporters of the existence in Catalonia of the Catalan Agency of Social Protection. And our commitment to this agency has become evident, and it has become evident – works are love and not good reasons, facts and not words – in the best way, that is to present an articulated text, that it costs to write – and you know it – especially if it goes into depth in the questions, that it has been placed as an alternative to the one at the time that the groups of Junts laid down for Yes and the CUP. But I am genuinely, and I am cautious, that this law has been one of the many victims of double language and the cunning of which the process is so much abused. A cunning that has marked this entire legislature in a negative way and that has put forward the need to make a report in which absolutely everything is linked... It is to say, an outing, pushes to the bus – and this form part of this report – but it is not concerned whether the bus is in conditions, whether up in time or not. And that has hurt a lot– a lot–, I think, many of the policies that could have been done during the practically two years that we wear. It has been, I insist, I believe, this, which has made it very difficult to deal with this law, and perhaps it is behind what Eva Granados described as the "Guadian dealing," right? , which, one day at a time, was urgent because it had to be done in one month, and, at a time, the processing is paralyzed for seven months in a row. This has happened several times on this subject: the need to have a law that offers a Catalan social protection agency that manages reality with the need to fill these discourses to keep alive some elements that are legitimate, but I insist, in this case, as in many others, have ended up obviously damaging the utility of policies. It is an ambivalent speech, and anyone who at the time has an interest in studying the evolution of the process of this law and goes to the actions of the Parliament of Catalonia will be able to detect it: this law presented itself simultaneously as the state structure to manage all social security, including contributory pensions, and also as a mere law of autonomous development. In fact, if you look well, it's almost like a day-to-day delivery of the week, isn't it? : the couple days, Tuesdays, you said and disbanded, presented itself as a simple law of autonomous development; in change, the odd days, dills, dills and diverges – I don't know why these days have been chosen –, it appeared as an offensive to create a summer structure to manage all these benefits. And that, you see, we've lived, haven't we? I see the image, in these moments, reproduced from some of the meetings that we have had with the company Chakir, which insisted, with a lot of epic – sincerely, it does very well – around the importance that it has advanced in this matter, and I think it was the company Vehi – which at that time was meeting on behalf of the CUP – that said: "No, no; we are aware that this is only a law of autonomous development, because the law of truth, of disconnection from social security, will come later. Well, I guess that's the one we'll discuss later, the one about transitoryity, but, of course, two things so different in one law alone, so... it's a little complicated. And if I put it at these moments, it's not to continue yesterday's debate, but to explain that I think we've lost a great opportunity to give it to the government – this and what it is – and to the council that I run an indispensable instrument like the Catalan Social Protection Agency. Just stick to the things that's happened, huh? I mean... I want to remind you that the origin of this law... remember that statement of November 9, 2015? The one that's going to cause some grudges in this room? Remember that almost everything had to be done the next day, right? So, in that statement – if I calculate it well – twenty-two months ago, the Catalonian Parliament agreed, within the framework of the unilateral declaration of independence, to compromise to present this bill within thirty days. The truth is, he was fine, wasn't he? Why, man, so important it was to have a Catalan social protection agency, if someone was able to present it in thirty days, it was a joyous motiu, wasn't it? But the reality was very different, because after the law was presented, I think I remember, the month of May, it was discussed in July and it was very, very, very hard to work in the field of ponència. At some point I had the feeling that those who had presented the proposal of the law were the ones who had presented the alternative text, because it seemed that we were the ones who had an interest in making it run, and that most of the groups already had the tram. But if you see the evolution of the processing of this law, you will find a void of seven months: from September 2016 until July 2017 the processing of this law has been paralyzed. Why was she paralyzed? Well, you'll never explain it to us, but I have a little female intuition that you say you've been paralyzed because, of course, making a law that wants to be a state structure and not an autonomous development, I guess it should cost a lot of square, huh? Mrs. Counselor, my friend Dolors Bassa? - I suppose it should cost a lot of squares. Okay. The reality is, uh, paralyzed set_months, a law that I insist on, huh? It was so urgent that November 9th was said to have begun processing in one month. Well, fortunately, all these doubts about what this law is, Galgo or potenco, are solved. We have been resolved by the Council of State Guarantees with its opinion, which has put things at their place and said: "Catalunya there is right, and it is perfectly constitutional and statutory, to have a Catalan agency of social protection. Okay, that's what we've always defended. But not as a state structure to manage future competitions, but for what is normal: to manage those that are available today. They are common sense, the advice of the Board of State Guarantees, that I am not surprised that you have no interest in listening to them and have decided to shut their mouths, I don't know if it has continued, from this point of view. Clearly, reading the opinion – this and others – one result is that it is a question why sometimes these questions are so obvious and as they are not present. Because someone could say, "That's what you say about the opposition – in this case, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is. But, listen, I think I remember, if the memory doesn't fail me, that the experts they came up with were practically only at our request. I don't-- Chakir, did you propose to anyone? I don't think so, do I? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's like there's no interest in listening to anyone you know, that it wasn't that if someone knew something and could communicate it to us it was a disturbance in the report that's planted. Well, and if you see the actions... it's that the experts are absolutely, so, blunt, on the landings. They say, insistently, many things; they say that it is not possible to do, they say that it is possible to do, they mark a very positive way. But no: the majority of parliament decided that it did not just not listen to Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the PSC, but it did not listen to the experts either. It's legitimate, it's not an opinion, it's a non-binding opinion, like those of the State Guarantee Board, but in any case, man, it always seems to be good, or at least I grow up to be good, to listen to the people who can bring something. They did not accept our papers, even though I think I remember that, because of the strength of the experts' appearance, some comment for the passers-by was said, that, well, there were very interesting things that we could incorporate. Well, so, no, it wasn't possible. Well, what are we gonna do? I take advantage of this intervention to put into value our proposal of the Catalan Agency of Social Protection. I honestly believe, modestly, that someone will at some point take advantage of it, and therefore, it is not lost work. Almost, it would almost make me wonder, since I have a relationship of friendship with the Lower Pain..., I would not have any inconvenience until and all that I can take advantage of it during the time that you are in this responsibility, because I believe – and she knows it – that there are important things in our layout that you could take advantage of. Because the picture today in Catalonia in social protection is of a low level of social protection. And, it's true, the causes are many, we won't put the saying here... the government, I don't know what... we have a substrate already of a lot of obvious insufficiency, but one thing is much harder, and it's the unequal access of the citizens depending on the municipality in which they reside. This equality of the law, which some are so concerned about, turns out to be broken in social clau, clearly, in class conflict; but in this case, in these themes, it is also broken in function of the municipality in which a resident resides. And the diversity of forms of management and institutions involved makes it difficult to access people, especially those who have the most need and the least resources to access the complex social protection system. We were going to say at the time, and I think I'm keeping it, that this project in the background is a structure, but it's not a state structure, it's a structure in the sense of a carcass. What's going on, who hasn't put anything in it, and we've been trying to get you to put something in it. They didn't come back. Here's the thing; if they want, they can try to take advantage of it, from this perspective. We would like to highlight, from this point of view, some important elements, when we hear them. In Catalonia, a Catalan social protection agency has to be deeply decentralised. The reality of the territory..., has nothing to do with one place with another, has nothing to do with the metropolitan area with Catalonia with less population, more dispersed. So, we need to look for decentralized formulas. But, of course, that's why we should also put coordination mechanisms on the loose – unique window, shared dispatch – something that allows, moreover, all administrations to vacate one and that citizens do not have to depend, to their fate, on the window to which they fall. We want the assemblies to play a key and central role in this Catalan Social Protection Agency, and you have not left us, with your refusal to take some of our papers. And it's quite obvious: it's the administrations that are in the front line of fire, it's the ones that face daily dramas of social emergence, it's the ones that always give their face when all the other administrations pile up under the stones, the joints. And he missed this opportunity to do it. From this point of view, it is clear that, for us, the centralised model of the Catalan social protection agency that we are adopting today is not badly what Catalonia needs; it is centralised in the most negative sense of the word. We have brought elements in relation to the contract program, I do not insist, said Eva Granados; we share..., we worked together on this topic. But all this does not appear, and unfortunately it did not appear in the Junts Law proposal for the Yes and the CUP and it will not appear at the end. As the important role of social and trade union organizations does not appear, in the government of the social protection agency. And here I have to say that in a very large way, in a very personal way, it has to be found that people I know, both in the field of counselling and in the field of driving this project, who are firmly convinced of the role of trade union and business organisations in this situation, have – and social organisations, also, all the entities of the third sector – devalued their role in this Catalan Social Protection Agency to extreme total and absolute. Because civil society should talk about it, but above all what it is to give it a leading role, because it plays a role in the better. I want to end, counselor, with a prec, with a prec to the conseller and friend Dolors Bassa. This isn't the law we need, we've already said it, but life can still take advantage of it, even this law. It's got possibilities. Sense of doubt, it's better to have a Catalan social protection agency than not to have it. This one doesn't have..., it hasn't taken advantage of all the potentials it has, because maybe it's more worried about the carcass than it is about the contents; but, despite that, it has possibilities. Bearing in mind that during the processing of these twenty-two months that have passed, fortunately with the responsibility of all and also with the work of everyone– I have no problem in recognizing it, also from the councillor–, we managed, moreover, to bring forward the topic of basic income [[Funnel veils]] ..., guaranteed citizenship, yes, I'd like to – yes, thank you, counselor–, so, clearly, here again appears another time... Guaranteed recognition of all those who have worked on it, but I want to make a further reconnaissance to the people of the ILP, who have been "very much cured, to all social entities, trade unions, who have been fighting because they are being listened to. But, of course, now we have two things that we have always said that we need: a law that recognises a universal right to guaranteed citizenship income and that acts as a backbone of the rest of social protection benefits, and, at the same time, an instrument – the Catalan Social Protection Agency. In all that you can do to take advantage of this box, you will have our collaboration. What's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's going on, what's [[Funnel veils]] ...,no,like a new offer,right? , an offer; but as you are not a superwoman, if you want to devote yourself to managing social security contributory pensions you won't have time to devote yourself to pushing the social protection agency forward. Better that it is dedicated to managing what you are responsible for today, and if one day the social security contributory benefits are achieved, then perhaps then there is strength to manage them. It's always better to worry about what one has than one doesn't. Does it look like... this offer in position? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.7.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Then, on behalf of the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group, has the word Lord Chakir el Homrani.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.8.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselors, deputies, deputies, mirin, I have also been thinking of a little something, starting from the first three interventions, as structured the explanation. And, if it looks good to them – also if it looks bad I'll do it this way [[the timer riu]] – what I will do will be, in the first place, an explanation of the agency, of the law, of the structure we generate, and, from here on, then I will want to enter into some of the details that have been commented on in the previous interventions. We are – and I think that everyone shares this – a need, the need to create a unified and specialized agency in the management of social services. And around this need I think there is a very broad agreement, not only political but social. Missing. I believe that these years of crisis and this situation have also shown us that this need for a unified and specialized agency in the management of social services, economics, and specialized from a technological point of view, is a need. And she's been accompanied by a lot of the debates we've had in this area in this legislature. All previous speakers have located and talked at some point about guaranteed income. The guaranteed income was also the subject of this debate, wasn't it? : which way we generate a social protection system that is predictable and easy to use for the citizen and citizens who are most vulnerable, who are most in need. And this is the will and it's what we're generating today: a social protection model like right linked to the maintenance of life, which is the goal that it's set, with a system that has the ability to guarantee the economic capabilities of citizens, and, for another band, that it's a predisposition model and that you serve to give response to many needs. And here we all agree: we have many needs in social matters. From here on, the two groups that have volunteered to debate more than the proposal have placed a model, a model that, from good principles, we do not share. Because we..., the object of this law proposal is very clear: it is to create an instrument, an instrument to manage these services. It is legitimate and legitimate to have other objectives, such as opening up other debates to be opened, which are surrounding the design of social policies and services, but at this point we wanted to design the instrument, the management instrument. A management instrument with very clear principles, participated with a very large control of Parliament, taxed, and that serves because the management of social protection in this country is more effective, more effective and better responsive to the citizen than they deserve the best response that can be given from this Parliament, who are the citizens and the most vulnerable citizens. From here, we have created a law with the following structure. In the first place, the first chapter is about creation, the natural and the functions of the Catalan Agency of Social Protection. And here I will stop for a moment, on the part of the principles, because I believe that they are very important, the guiding principles of this agency: accountability, transparency, predictability – this is what the citizens of this country, especially the most vulnerable, deserve – participation, dynamism and proximity and territoriality. We work around the creation of this agency with these principles and their functions. The second chapter is organization and composition, and the rule of operation. And here I am going to go, if I may, as a matter of fact to discuss some of the elements that have been criticized, because I think it has to be placed and because I think we are making a bet for a very modern and very involved agency. How will it be organized? In the first place, the presidency of the agency will decide it by Parliament, and this presidency will have a term of five years. That is to say, we want to separate the functioning of this instrument of management from the social protection of political dynamics and short-term partisanships. And we think it's a value – that it's a value –, that the presidency is listening to Parliament, and that it's a value, that the mandate is five years, because it's going to force us to higher levels of consensus. In the second place, there is a general council, a general council on which, apart from the president or president, the secretaries, the councillor or councillor of the branch, there are ten vowels. And, of these, there will be..., for one thing, municipalist entities will participate there– that is, representation in the governance of the agency is represented by local authorities and will be on the board of government–, and, for another, the most representative social and economic agents will participate there– or still, trade unions and employers. That is to say, we want it to be an agency in which the Government, Parliament and civil society remain co-responsible and work together. And, in this sense, we bet they'll be directly involved in the governing council. Apart from this council of government, they create two more councils in this agency – I think it's important –: the academic council, the council of an academic optics, of a scientific optics, of a professional optics, because we have to be able to be with the antennas absolutely opened to all the adventures and debates in the academic, scientific, social protection, and, then, we generate a council of participation. Why? To open it even more: for, beyond the participation of the most representative social and economic agents, to be able to open it, to be a space of participation of this social fabric, that is a small treasure that we have in this country and that is a treasure that we have to value very much. And we want to give this possibility, and we create, in this sense, spaces for participation and very important spaces for co-decision, and we think that they are a value of this law and that they should be placed. And it's in that sense that... And when the company Coscubiela said: "I know hard for some companies... I know perfectly well that the importance of the social fabric and the union and employer fabric of this country in this sense – I think we can say – we share it absolutely. And what we want with this law is to equip ourselves with these spaces of participation, because we want to participate in it and because we want to share all of us in this task, which is the most important, which is to give response to the most vulnerable of our society. And I think it's very, very important. Beyond this aspect of the law's organizational character, what other aspects do we have? The economic and legal regime, which is in the third chapter. Then there are the arrangements that usually have any law. And here I will stop at a disposition, which is a disposition based on a theme presented by the CUP, which I think has a very important value, such as message, and as message I think it needs to be reinforced, which is the additional provision according to which it is located – and I think it is a message that we must continually reinforce – compulsory parity, complementing the law, in all the organs of government and direction of this agency. I think it's a very good message. From here, we have a structure that we need to be able to manage all social services in a very efficient way. In order to be able to do this effectively, what we are doing and what will be nearing the government, if this law is approved – which will be approved – is to pass the various services to this agency and go in a reasonable and orderly way, to do the right thing, to give a well done answer. And the other debate, which is a debate that some companies and companies want to place on the mark of the creation of the agency, which is the debate of the design of policies..., I don't think it has any sense to ask that it be a participating agency, that it be an agency where there are all social actors – which is it – and then to tell them what to do. Home, if we believe this agency, if we create a council of government, that can make an annual planning, that this annual planning is taken to Parliament and goes to Parliament, that then, a day a year, also carries the memory with all the social protection that is done in this country... What we can't tell them is what they have to do. Home, we have to have this space so we can do it. And we all agree, and with guaranteed income we have taken a great step around this debate of rationalization, of facilitating social protection to the citizen in a reasonable and reasonable way; so let's take advantage of it, let's take advantage of it all. Also situate..., for a few comments from Mrs. Granados..., which is not concerned: it was approved the Law of guaranteed income in July of this year, with a lot, a lot of work– you are not aware, just as you are not aware of Mr. Coscubiela –, with a lot of work from everyone– from everyone–, and on the 15th at the beginning of the deployment. And if there's any doubt, I'm sure the counselor has no problem answering it there. But I think you must have seen that three hundred people have been hired, that the formation of these three hundred people is happening, that the support web has already been made for all these professionals, and that we will start something, that was a demand, that is a great project. And I'm sure it'll be complicated, but the planned work is being done. Just as you also know that the program contracts have been signed in four years and that the week you see is the addition of the increments you assume for this year; some dates that the locals already had, because it was possible to sign for four years to give security to the locals around the resources allocated to it by the Generality, within the locals, around social protection. Don't skate. And there are doubts, no problem. You don't need to contact me or my parliamentary group, because you have direct contact with the government: talk to the council, and I'm sure they'll answer it. The same way I asked the councillor about the elements we're situating. As he has placed these two doubts, I explain it to him: I explain to him how the preparation for guaranteed income is and I explain to him how the situation of the program contracts is. No problem – no problem –, enchantment of life. Other aspects. You also stated: "The agency will solve everything. I don't think anyone listened to me say that. What we generate is an instrument, an instrument that facilitates life. Mr. Coscubiela thanked me, when he spoke of my epic, because I was thinking, and the people who know me... I think if I have any characteristics... I don't know people or anything, I mean... [[the timer riu]] But, well... [[Greetings.]] I'll take it, won't I? But each one has its own way of being, and I, precisely, don't know. I'm cold, too, huh? , soc a freak of epic fantasy, and I like to read epic fantasy. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] See? Any point we had of... but epic in my interventions or epic in my way of doing? I think everyone who knows me knows that she's not exactly one of my major virtues. But to put them in the position that this demand that they have also placed, from the opinion of the CSTC, I have already told them – I have already told them –, and I am willing to agree, no problem. Ladies and gentlemen, do the proposals of the law presented by the parliamentary groups which have social implications go through the opinion of the CTESC? Do it. I think we're all going to be perfect. I think more than one would find some surprise, huh? because, frankly, we've seen some proposed law on social matters that I personally – certainly to the group that presented it – didn't have the hairs at my fingertips. Fem-ho : that all the proposals of the law with social impact pass by opinion of the CSTC. Now, what we can't do is cheat: what passes through the CTESC's opinion is the draft laws; the proposals are not. Do we want to make this change? Charming of life. I think you'd be positive, huh? I think it would be positive, actually. Other elements that have been placed: the role of social agents. I think the explanation I made of the structure makes it very clear, which is the role of the entities. And from here, then, we'll approve and go through. I respect the advice of the Council of Guarantees Statutes, mirin, I begin to be great, I begin to have an age, I wear two years ago in this Parliament, I do not aspire to convince anyone; that is, I do not aspire to convince..., in the Faristol and in the Ple, I do not aspire to convince anyone. It's a reality, it's a disgrace to our system: I don't aspire to it. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] But to the people who see us, to the people who listen to us, they only ask them to do two exercises, which is very easy, because, apart from the documentation they have: they take the request for the advice of the Guarantee Board that they presented Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the PSC, if they read it – any city that is following it, if they do – and they take the advice of the Guarantee Board and they read it, and see what happens. Because, of course, everything he was based on..., not at all. And, in the end, what you're saying is the following – if I may, I'm looking for a moment and..., opinion... –, you're saying that the apart from the first transitory provision of the proposed protection law violates Article 23.2 for a question of the ease of entry into public office, and they're right, and that's why they've presented a draft suppression, a draft we share. And that's it. All that you argued in your request..., nothings. And the other is that they make a recommendation. It is a recommendation of legislative technique, only in which they ask to delete the paragraphs of 'at every moment. And, on this recommendation, we haven't submitted any papers. Why? Because in the background you want to read it from a stationary way: from this way that in politics you cannot transform, you cannot change, you cannot have collectible projects. And this we won't play. We believe that it is reasonable to say that, as we go to have more skills, these social protection skills will go to the agency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.9.0	Mr. El Homrani, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.10.0	Because this aspiration to be able to change, unless we're immobilizers, we have it. If anyone doesn't have it, it's their problem. Thank you very much. I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.11.0	Mr. El Homrani, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.12.0	...the president, it's over. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.13.0	Thank you, Mr. El Homrani. Next, to fix his position, has the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.14.0	Honourable President, ladies and gentlemen, these living and venerable people who have now left, but who guide us and watch us these days from the rostrum, who are the leaders of the ANC and of Pomnium, who are the facsimile powers of Catalonia and who have usurped the power of the Government, of the Parliament [[some applause]] We live a few days of..., a few sad days for the Catalan institutions, ladies and gentlemen, and only to see the face of Mr. Artur Mas yesterday. I was looking at her and she saw her – and she saw her –, I think, the sad sight of how the Parliament had become the theater of the late Carlinada. [[Widow's remorse.]] They're not days of joy for our citizens. Today is the little German of the batteries as a law of rupture and disconnection. And it means that this, precisely social law, is what has had less public attention and less media attention. We could do a number of readings. We could say that this indifference that this law of rupture has had perfectly defines the priorities of the Government, that I do not say that it has not dealt with social issues, but they have always been secondary and absolutely subordinate to its only agenda and obsession, that has been the agenda of rupture. And maybe what happened, too, is that you... now Mr. Chakir told us that he doesn't like epics, that he likes epic fantasies. Listen to me, read them not, what he likes is to make them, because here what they're doing is a huge epic fantasy. Read them, but don't take us all on the way to the ravine to fulfill your dreams of epic fantasy. Perhaps what happens is that you have announced a great law of rupture, and in the end, what you have brought to us is an autonomous law, a rule of the second level of an autonomous law. At the end of the day, however, they are not very original: what they are doing is to complete with what they recommended, as they said before, those who manage, is to say, the Catalan National Assembly, the Council Counsellor for the National Transition, who say: "A law of the Catalan Social Protection Agency is to be presented, which will then convert... Therefore, they were not very original, in their willingness to deceive the State. And it's a shame. It's a shame that, once again, the process has completely ruined everything. Because it is true that he has felt, talking about an agency that rules, that I manage, that unifiques, simplifies and rationalizes in some way social services, which is an absolutely intransigent map at these times in Catalonia. Now, I'll tell you one thing too: thank you, you, when you rationalise Catalonia, when you approve a Jacobin law in Catalonia – because what they do is to leave the locals absolutely behind, the others in the Administration – that sounds very good to them; now, when someone in Madrid talks about rationalizing, it's an attack on autonomous and decentralisation skills, etc. It's not the only contradiction. We all have contradictions. You too. For example, following the Catalan establishment, the Catalan power for forty years, with its houses and swimming pools in Cerdanya, those that now follow the great revolutionaries – the great revolutionaries... Sometimes one has an intimate malice to say: « Esconti'm, that stops to independence and that the CUP applies its program of expropriation of the second residences; but then you say: « Quiet, quiet, because, according to the CEO, those who have true pulp are the voters of the CUP – the majority, as the CEO says, who are the first group at the income level according to the voters. And I know there are many that aren't; I know there are many that are popular classes, many [[remorse of the voice]] A lot. But look at the CEO: when one says the income level, the first group, the Candidature [[remorse of the voice]] of Popular Unity. Yeah, there's elitism, which says it depends on the level of study; all right. That's class speeches; all right, all right. [[Greetings.]] Members of the House [[remorse of the voice]] ...yeah, the agency, but, listen, do you think we're talking about the agency? It's more, I'm self-righteous to talk about what I want at these moments. [[applause]] Why, once Pandora's box is over, it gets over, and disobedience can't just apply some, huh? In any case [[remorse of the voice]] Ladies and gentlemen, our... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I didn't wheeze, huh? Mr. Coscubila, maybe that's why...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.15.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.16.0	Look, the truth is that, as things are, one never knows when his intervention will be later, because elections can be called at any time and so on, and therefore, he wanted to say something that he had between, and follow a little what Mr Albiol did yesterday and Mr Iceta later, to put with a certain perspective the moment we live. And, mirin, I think that Catalonia, which is the land of my mother, of my opinions, the land which my father has also joined in adoption, has gone through great moments in the length of his history – great moments – and there is no need to go to the moments of medieval fullness, of political expansion, economic, commercial or Renaissance... In the contemporary era we have the great Renaissance, the nouncentism, modernism, regionalism, nationalism, and so on, to which we have contributed in the Transition the Catalans, with the parties, also constitutional. But throughout the whole contemporary era, the Catalans, liberals, Carlins, Republicans, workers..., we have been the Catalans, the ones we have made contemporary Spain. And Spain is not alien to us, Spain is not a superstructure for us: Spain is ours, Catalans. Spanish is also ours. And we don't want to, so we don't want to, we don't want to lose it, and we don't want to let it go, Spain, in a moment..., in a populist rampage, enjoying the crisis, with massive propaganda, orwel·lian, orchestrated for a few years. We don't want to let her lose. And we don't want all this coloring that's the Catalan reality, so alive, so far gone, making us divide it into white or black, itself or not, because reality is much, much, much more complex. And what are we living now? It's not a moment of glory or sadness. I don't want to capitalize on Vicens Vives, because I certainly wouldn't have voted for the PP, but I did want them... – really not, counselor? [[Funnel veils]] , no – but I believe that it is possible to apply his analysis and that it consists in the record that he wrote to News of Catalonia about the history of Catalonia. He says: "In some moments of our history our usual trance is suddenly captivated by the rush," I quote textually, "an attitude in which exasperation and sentimentality are barred, torn and blown away. In such moments we lose the sense of continuity, the vision of the just proportion of a people carrying a message. Hence our collective life is woven by a patchwork of rectification and decay, which in just a few hours disrupts the work of years of reconstruction. And it ends, the historian: "Reaching is not an attack of madness, but a claudication of the midwives before fanaticism and passed it without limits. The plotting is the psychological basis of Catalan subversive actions, the historical justification of everything or nothing, the denial of the ideal of compromise and pact – ends the quote. And that doesn't mean that your move isn't legitimate. I think you..., and the Constitutional said it, it's a legitimate aspiration, the one you have, but what's not legitimate is to carry the state of right as you did yesterday. Because that's carrying the first common good we have, the phonetic protection we have absolutely all, which is the democratic law, the state of the right, which protects us all. And you may want to move on to history, but this will to move on to history, which is legitimate, is not always the best counsel to make decisions for the common good, because to want to move on to history too history has brought great misfortunes. The democratic law is the guarantee of the rights of all, and, if we skip it, we are in the hands of manipulation, of arbitrariness, of the power of the strongest. You know perfectly well that the path you have taken does not lead to good things, ladies and gentlemen. They have repealed the Statute, they have repealed the Constitution... Look, they don't play with fire – they don't play with fire – because... Many years ago they spooked the rain of concord, and we haven't all made mistakes, and recognizing it may be a first step to refer the bridges. But, listen, the fires know how they start, but they never know how they end. Therefore, we remain cautious, but be especially cautious you, who are the ones who are breaking the right state and the standards of coexistence that we have given each other. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.17.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. The words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.18.0	Well, thank you, good morning. I had prepared an intervention on social protection. I know it's hard not to talk about pools or fires or Carlism, which is what basically focused the intervention that preceded me. I think it's important to talk about social protection. Some of me think they didn't expect to get to this point and it's known in the improvisation of interventions, but, well, I read some of the things they said, and I think that's what the parliamentary debate has to do. In the first place, for our part, to give thanks to the people who gave us a hand in this law: people of the CGT, of the Inter-union-CSC, of the COS, people of the Col·lectiu Ronda – the Àlex, the Óscar, in Màrius, in Jordi –; also to the deputies..., the Mireia Vehí, who worked colze a colze..., and in Josep Manel Busqueta, who took it to the beginning. This law, in our view, and I think that also of the groups that have made papers, had basically two points of discussion thick, didn't it? They were if, apart from economic benefits, they also included social services, and if, among these economic benefits, one day he could take over the management of contributory pensions. They were the two great axes of debate. And it is a debate to take into account, for example, that of social services. This agency doesn't see it, but that doesn't mean that the door is locked. In the case that you integrate social services, it would be completely logical, this territorial decentralisation that is demanded, but it was connected, the model of an agency that, apart from economic services, does social services, with the territorial model. So, that's not saying it's centralism, because one thing's connected to the other. In the same way that the door to social services is not locked, neither is the door to which this agency can take over in a future, therefore, all the skills in social protection, also contributory pensions. And so they say so much about motivating as articulating, and that has worried the major groups. And, certainly, it's a concern that, if we look back, then, surprise or disappoint. Groups like the PSC or Catalonia Yes, it is Pot – or, in its moment, Initiative – were groups with many more aspirations of self-government in its moment, with many dreams that were channeled through the State, for example. And they took a couple of doors to the hills. But it seems like you've done quite well from that door to the wall, because now you've become the chief vets of the order, and so you've acted on this piece of law. Considerations of the type where "the organization and management of the resources that integrate the social services system, as well as those that are attributed to it in the future..., you would like to delete "as well as those that are attributed to it in the future. What are they against? From the future? [[Rialles.]] It's a big deal. You had dreams one day. One day you had aspirations and you took a door to the hillside, and it seems you've done well after the lesson. And as they act in this way, they laugh at the aspirations of others, they laugh at the dreams of others, which are that one day in this country you can also manage pensions. [[Greetings.]] He said Mr. Coscubiela that we've missed a great opportunity, and that's not true. That's not gonna work out right now. It is the resolution that I have commented on: social services and economic benefits, but it is not the whole debate on social security that is resolved. We can do this, in any case, in a future law of Catalan social security, and we will have a debate on conditions, a debate with freedom. No one gets away with the fact that the competition debates here take on a criminal charge, and, therefore, let's not say that here the one who wanted to run away from a debate as if you didn't have any consequence, take on this debate. When we can speak freely, at the moment we are talking about the model of pension management, but now we have actually created the receptacle, that agency that must manage them. We could have also talked about privatization, which is talking a little bit more in the debate to the whole. And it is said, on the part of some groups: "This model of agency opens the doors to privatization. Then, in the wake of the discussions, they did not mention this article, no, they kept it intact – this article that, according to you, opened the door to privatization – but, still, we took the word from them and we did decide to write it. We have done three things, at least, in this sense to protect that the Catalan Agency for Social Protection does not have any risk of delivering to private management something as sensitive as the economic benefits linked to social protection. Already at the first moment, at the time of joint submission, it was our proposal that the agency is constituted as a public body and autonomous. We have also introduced that no part of the Catalan Agency for Social Protection can be allocated to the purpose of not following the functions assigned to it. And finally, a theme on the part of the additional ones that we are satisfied with, because we are a step ahead of reality, of the current reality and of the reality between the Spanish State: the risk that certain medical enterprises will tax them as they are beginning to do the Català d'Avaluacions Médicos in some private clinics or also the National Institute of Social Security, proof of armoring – at least on the text, in this theme, it is indicated that the forms of management – because they can be agreed with the private sector – admitted in this famous article 4.2– according to which, according to you, it is privatized – including only those referring to the provision and provision of social services, but not to the value of such activities. Let us make sure that this agency can, in its case, make the medical assessments of the drops through, therefore, private clinics. The problem of pensions, which also appeared much more in the debate to the totality than not in the debate of this day, therefore, could also have been part of this point. And they are real problems in the current Spanish state: both the financing of these pensions as sustainability or privatization. In the financing of pensions, the Spanish State has a huge structural problem, for both the low and the low wages, and Catalonia today too, but not in these proportions – not in these proportions –: the balance of income and expenditure would not be, or much less, in those proportions that the Spanish State has. So much so as it is said, that independence puts pensions at risk, it is exactly the opposite: what puts pensions at risk is to follow in this current Spanish state, among which, moreover, the receipts that are sought to secure these pensions..., each one that appeared is more risky and more dangerous. From that draft law of the government of the PSOE in 2007 – with the support of the unions, too – that it intended to invest the reserve funds in the bag, and luck that it did not pull forward – luck that it did not pull forward – because it would have lost a lot of money, because 2007 was meant to do that, and 2009 began to have the consequences..., 2007 itself, but 2009 dropped a lot, which would have been reversed, presumably, in the bag. This is a pension risk; or, keep pensions in the hands of people who think to do this, that is a risk to pensions, and not policies that a Catalan republic can do. The model of not updating the IPC, which was imposed on 2013; this is indeed a risk. Two-cents of midjana per pensioner is lost in 2016 and 2017, every year, not to update the IPC. Or the Mutual Law. Look, the Catalan Republic will not be the garden of delights; we will not win from night to day neither better wages nor better..., nor will there be more work places, nor will there be a more progressive taxation from night to day, which are the three elements that would have a better pension system. This won't win overnight. But, at least, with the Catalan Republic we will open the door, open the process are to define all these questions in a future far more hopeful than leaving our pensions, our social protection, in the hands of the ruling classes of the Spanish State. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.19.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Before calling for a vote, the councilwoman told me she wanted to talk. I'll let him know he's coming back, okay?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.20.0	Thank you very much, President, for letting me speak. Obviously, giving thanks to all those who have already anticipated me to vote in favour of this bill, because I think that, as Mr Fernández said, it is strange that the public media do not speak, that the communication media... But, of course, I see what is being talked about here, I think it is obvious that they will not talk, because the speeches that have been felt here have often had nothing to do with what the social protection agency is with. The social protection agency is and will be a great public and autonomous instrument. It will allow us to allow its guiding principles to make all the citizens of our country have the services and help they have at this time, and all that they can have at every moment according to the legality established, at their own hands. Therefore, as well as social services, both mayors and specialists, can be on the side of all citizens fairly, with equal opportunities, taking into account the territoriality of our country. Therefore, despite an ingenious effort this year in the premise, both in the performance part – here it was about places, I mean many years ago that there was no public funding in place, and all groups know that there are more than three-thousand new places for large people's residences and for people with disabilities distributed territorially and according to lists of hope –..., apart from being able to increase the whole economic part, will allow us to order not only the benefits, but all those social services that we have demonstrated that we have priority, and that in the future we can prioritize much more. Therefore, I give thanks for going to the group that will vote for it. And I also extend my hand to Mr. Coscubala, who, as he saw the opportunity that it was an agency that could be good in the future, that gives us, therefore, this confidence so that we can manage now much better than we have and that in the future we can do much better than it will be now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.21.0	Counselor's on the way back. He's been talking for three minutes. In any case, as they are six groups, they would play thirty_seconds to each group, to groups that want to use the word. [[Someone said, "No, let's go.]] Is there a group that wants to use the word? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] So, call it a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote. In the first place, we will jointly vote on the reserved items of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 27 votes to 72, with 34 abstentions. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm guessing the deputies who just got in can't vote on this... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I was locked up and... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, but they can't vote... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No; in this vote, no. We will continue to vote on the subsequent opinions of the Council of State Guarantees, issues from number 1 to 7 – number 8 will be voted on later – of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 52 votes to 72, with 9 abstentions. We are now voting for the message following the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, No. 8, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is, and we will also vote for the message of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, because they have the same content. The vote begins. The items were approved by 99 votes in favour, against and 34 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the issue of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 25 votes to 72, with 36 abstentions. We shall now vote on the remainder of the opinion. The vote begins. The proposal for the creation law of the Catalan Social Protection Agency was approved by 72 votes in favour, 61 against and no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Law proposition against bank abuse (totality debate)]] [[202-00054/11]] Let's move to the fifth point of the order of the day, which is: debate of totality of the Law Proposition against the bank abuse. In accordance with Article 114.2 of the Rules, it presents this initiative, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature for Popular Unity - Constituent Creed, Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant. [[Long break.]] They ask them, as always, to leave in a hurry and in silence so that we can continue with the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.22.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning. In a plethora marked by the lengths and the filibusterism, while there is also talk about overthrowing the regime, it is also good to talk about those who have systematically supported the regime, if it is not that they are part of it and, in the background, they are familiar with many of the practices. In fact, article 1 of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights reminds us that all peoples have right to self-determination, and, by virtue of this right, freely determine their political status and also seek their economic, social and cultural development. All peoples may, for their own purposes, dispose freely of rich resources and natural resources, without prejudice, however, to the obligations arising from international economic cooperation, based on a principle of mutual benefit, and also of international law. In no case can a village be deprived of its subsistence media. Despite this, or still, despite what PIDESC reminds us of, we see as, from multiple perspectives, in the present day the financing of the economy is putting at risk the protection of most basic rights of citizens and also the same sovereignty of the people and state administrations. To give just one example, we have the report of the UN Special Rapporteur on Housing in the Spanish State, we were complaining about how housing markets and finance are disbanded from people and communities and the role that housing develops in the welfare of these, and how – there is – the global financial system has grown exponentially and now far exceeds the so-called ‘real productive economy'. And it's that years after the beginning of the crisis, it's time to talk again about the commitments they made at that time bankers, financiers, the parts of the regime and the control bodies. Because, in fact, if we look at the commitments they made at that time years later, when they come to the edge of the cliff, to the point where they fall, and all the privileges disappear, it confirms what some people say: there was no real option or willingness to moralize the banking system and guarantee its credit function. On the contrary: everyone who has been pushing since then has been going deeper into initiatives in favor of their own interests, harmful to the joint venture of society. Because, as I said, despite great speeches at a certain point, the line started at the end of the 1970s, when it was promoted, ordered and launched economic neo-liberalism to be and effects of detaching 'from the political and public control of the financial system, of banking the boxes and eliminating any public social model that was interbanked for private finances and its speculative ends. But, if realistic and sincere, to analyze the process initiated at the end of the 1970s so as to annihilate any economic model governed by social and mutual principles, to fight against the financing exclusion, to boost the productive and reproductive economy and to return the benefits to the community outside the logic of the market is not the object of this bill. We assume that this objective requires much deeper debate. What we are looking for in this bill that we present today, as a matter of necessity and as a matter of urgency, is to take some measures to depreciate the effects of so much accumulation by dispossession, as long as stripping is a public actor as when it is a private one. Because the commercialization of public services and common goods has been the engine of this depossession, it has been and is the engine of "deutility". And "deuteria" has names and surnames in Catalonia, and they're the FLA and the bank. So, therefore, let's address a part of those names and surnames: the bank. Because the debate about public and common management and the preservation of collective interests..., in this debate it is necessary to resolve the conflict that is generated between profit-making private entities, such as financial entities, and public administrations, such as common good and service collective management tools – conflict between profit-making private entities and public administrations. Because while there is no public bank that operates cooperatively, we work to ensure that the Public Administration has the capacity to manage common assets without relying on those who systematically look for their privileges. And, to illustrate it a little, to get out of theory and go to practice... : anni 2011, Agència Catalana de l'Aigua, a debt of 938_million euros, a quantity that questioned the sustainability of the agency. Year 2011, the peak of retailing and debates on the sustainability of banking entities. Year 2011, when the PAH began to question clearly the mortgage activity of the banks: those affected by the preferences were organized before the guideline of the financial entities and see how at first time it protects speculative activities due to end-of-life for years. Any 2011, as I said, 938_million euros of debt of the Catalan Agency of Water, two times more than the public law entries of the company. The government then decided to renegotiate with the financial entities. And here the approach to do is: who benefits from the result that was achieved at that time? And, therefore, it's from here on out when we talk about bank robberies. Why, yes, the year 2017 the ACA is maintained and manages not to get to the col·lapse; but what's the price? And who paid for it? Who ends up feeling the beneficiaries of the management of this common good? The debt we spoke before 2011 was divided among different banking entities: BBVA, Banesto, « la Caixa, Banco Popular, Catalunya Caixa, Santander, Novagalicia, Dexia, Banco Popular and ICO, among others. The interest that public administration, the public enterprise, paid at that time did not reach 2_per_cent. In 2012, the Convergence and Union Government decided to make an agreement to refine this debt. I, already in the beginning, in the agreement of refinement, thought that the interest is doubled, that passed to be practically 5_per_cent. That is to say, at that time, the Public Administration already accepted, from the outset, its weakened before the bank, the impossibility of the Public Administration marking conditions that did not have a negative impact. But this renegotiation had several tolls; beyond an increase in interest to pay, there were tolls, tolls in the form of commissions. And someone will say, "It's normal to pay commissions. But then, let's look at who we pay the commissions to. Because the first toll that had to be paid was the company that supposedly managed the restructuring; a company taxed for the bank, for all these financial entities that we already have; a company named Savings Financial Corporation, SV, SA. And this company the year 2012 was owned by the total practice of the ACA's credit institutions; therefore, it was owned, in practice, by the totality of the entities benefiting from this reorganization and restructuring of the debt. But we're moving on. More commissions: commissions, in the end, worth 13_million euros, which, taking into account that the debt was 900_millions, may sound a little bit, but it is 13_million euros that are the same funded entities that receive them. But it's that the most important toll is not this, it's not that of the Public Administration; the most important toll ends up being the price of water. Because since 2012 the average price of water in Catalonia has risen by 30_per_cent. A portion of this boost is explained by the benefit that different private entities – such as Acciona – get to manage this common good, but also by the boost of the water channel price, because of the water channel that manages the ACA. The water canon has risen between 17 and 39 per cent since 2011, since it has been renegotiated and renegotiated with funding entities. In this way, if we look at the minimum increase in revenue for the year 2012 and 2013, we see that it is about €46_million, while the increase in expenditure will finance, for this increase in the interest of credit to financial entities, is €51_million. So, who pays for this debt restructuring? The ACA? No, the families, all of us, each and every one of us. That, starting from an analysis that was never meant to be done, why the ACA up to the situation above and why at a certain point it is necessary to renegotiate the debt with the financial entities..., which pays that it is the families. And why is this happening? So, because the Public Administration has no power ahead of private entities. But what happened to ACA in 2012 is no exception. Yes, it is true that it is the restructuring of the larger debt of a public enterprise, and it clearly exemplifies the only ones who have benefited from this logic of capital accumulation and maximising benefits are the big corporations and the bank; but it also puts, as I say, manifest that the public administration does not have a way of dealing with the faces and how it ends up with the interests of the bank when it comes to managing the common goods and services. Usury is a concept that is broadly defined, and even with legislation – much unknown, but with legislation – in force in the Spanish State, such as the Azcarate Law, of 1908. There is legislation against usury. Therefore, talking about some banking activities or conditions such as usury may sound excessive, but whether or not it is usury, whether or not it is widely defined and recognized, even to the law we mentioned, to speak of duplication of interests or of conditioning the subsistence and quality of a public service is abusive. That is why, for us, for the CUP - Creed Constituent, it is essential, urgent and necessary to take measures that protect the common good and public services, and that also protect the Public Administration as the manager of these public services before all the interests of the bank and the effects of the accumulation that we give to the principle, by depossession, that rob both a public actor as when he is private. Because, in this sense, it is not about taking responsibility or removing 'the responsibilities from above, but it is about being aware that the common benefits, the public services, are to be preserved over private interests. They must be preserved over these financial entities, which have been managing and marking public policies in this country directly or indirectly; which condition the lives of all and every one of us; which, in the fund, they get right from us, while they, year after year, in their final account, make profits to divide them between very few. This week, which for us is decisive to go through the process..., to go through what we've been working to start building sovereignty..., it's also important to build economic sovereignty. And with this law we do not intend to recover the economic sovereignty of this people, but we do want to put down words of contention because in the process they constitute beginning we are still able, among all, to build those foundations because this people will also rise economically. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.23.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. In order to defend the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Sergio Santamaría has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.24.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the title of the proposed law presented to us by the CUP is clearly instructive and illustrative, is it not? : Proposition of a law against bank abuse. It is clear that we are ready to come up with a new concept, of which the CUP so much points out; in this case, I call it bankophobia. It is, therefore, the proposal of a law to overthrow, to criminalize, to demonize financial institutions. I therefore believe that you could be the holder of your proposal, 'bankophobia'. And it is true – it is true, because mistakes have to be recognized – that financial institutions have been wrong, like the system, in general. But it is also true, and it must be said, that that was at the time sponsored by a political irresponsibility with names and surnames, which concealed – which hid – the existence of a real estate bubble that exploded and caused the technical breakdown of the system. But – and it is important to note this – we must remember that the bank rescue as such, in purity, was not in favor of the banks, and this must be remembered: it was carried out in favor of the savings banks, especially those led by incompetent and negligent politicians, of what here in Catalonia – which, by the way, has hardly been talked about – we also had a flagship ship, the Caixa de Catalunya, managed by politicians. And don't forget also an undeniable reality: without financial support for the banking system, depositors and savers – eye, people also with names and surnames: pensioners, middle classes... – would have lost their savings. That would have been a real general bankruptcy. But, in any case, it is my obligation to enter, at this point, into the detail of the text that we are being considered. And I'm going to start with the end, with the explanatory statement, which should be at the beginning, by the way. But, in any case, this statement of reasons already refers, at the outset, to the International Covenant on Economic Rights, in order to demand the self-determination of Catalonia, and, frankly, it does not come to the case. You, as always, come to talk about your book, but this is not the object or should not be the fundamental object of the proposal. I, under any circumstances, will help you, modestly, to get out of the chaos, of the error in which you are installed. Look, the Catalans are neither oppressed by a colonial power nor have we suffered any human rights violations. Therefore, I deduce that your alleged self-determination is only an update of the Bolshevik revolution. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes; we're on it – we're on it. By the way, about the time of the Law of Repression against the Usury of Gumersindo de Azcarate of 1908, in fact; that is to say, whether you are up to date and modernized. Besides, I also want to make special mention of what happened yesterday in this chamber. Yesterday you – and I say you, members of the UPC – flagged, set in motion, and others followed you from the ronzal, the revolution that you are really looking forward to, and also with the clear and unequivocal claim to take you to the street to burn the. And it was a revolution, it was a beginning that – in this I am going to disintire, which is not present, of Congressman Coscubaila –..., not in the buccaneer style, no – because that was more typical of French and English – in the bandit style, which is more typical of Hispanic lands, in which we all find ourselves. And what happened yesterday? What is the corollary? What is the conclusion of what happened yesterday in this chamber? That we were robbed of democracy, that we were pitifully robbed of democracy. But I also tell you one thing: it won't be like this – it won't be like this. Finally, forget, therefore, about the issue of self-determination, because it is literature, and literature should not, as I say, be the fundamental work of this parliamentary chamber. Focus, therefore, on the problem, which is nothing other than the necessary regulation and management of the banking system, in order to prevent – in that we can agree – abuses and scams like those that have occurred. And on that it would be good to remember that both the Government and the Spanish Parliament have profusely legislated to protect the weakest part, consumers and users. Do not be arrogant, moreover, a competition that this chamber does not have, and give up and the essentials: do not defend a public bank, because experience shows us that it always ends up being a fiasco. Why do they demonize private management? Private management is sometimes more efficient than public management, and in any case public-private collaboration takes advantage of the synergies of both public and private. But here is the dynamic of confrontation: the public against the private, the one against the other. What needs to be done is to regulate it, to control it, to monitor it. And for that we are here, in this chamber, to prevent and correct these abuses of banks and any other entity that really is propitious to respect the basic rights of consumers and users, and not, therefore, as I say, to pursue with the whip to the private, as if it were Satan. Therefore, I insist, it is necessary to prevent pure speculation, pure and hard – pure and hard – speculation, but that does not happen by intervening the banking system permanently nationalizing the banking, because it is ineffective, because it only serves to increase public debt and because, moreover, it attracts corruption. And we have examples. We are living..., or, rather, they are suffering, for example, in Venezuela, where their recipes work, tearing poverty, growing destitution, unbearable abuse, the suffocating oppression of the Venezuelan people; it is becoming visible. Here you have the example: the coin, the bolivar, that nobody wants it – I think you do, but it doesn't go anywhere, with the bolivar. And yet, it continues to insist on the same wrong dynamics. As far as the article is concerned, we share, as I have already said, the need to prevent abusive clauses or Leonian conditions that in the period prior to the outbreak of the crisis – i.e. prior to 2008 – were part – it is true – of the contractual scenario between the bank and its customers. But I also told them at the beginning: get up to date. Mortgage executions have decreased significantly, and evictions as well. We do not want evictions, but we do not want to draw a drama that, fortunately, has begun to pass on. The personal situations of people who suffer from eviction always need constant support, they need help, they need social support, but let's not dramatize a situation that, fortunately, as I say, is being corrected. I would also like to say to you, with regard to issues that I believe deserve particular attention... the declaration of nullity of full law or the sanctions that are fully in force for such excesses have, as I said, largely corrected the situation. It is clear that this path must be followed, but the wording of this rule is clearly biased, because it greatly promotes the social criminalization of the banking system. There are some articles, on the other hand, certainly exotic. For example, Article 3 confers powers on the Parliament's Committee on Economics to declare a credit agreement abusive. It's something unheard of. It is unprecedented, in our comparative law, that the legislative power interferes with the competence of another power, such as the judiciary, to resolve legal conflicts between legal-private persons and the Administration. The division of powers is ignored. Who is responsible for the interpretation and application of the rules? The judiciary, the judges and the courts. And now it turns out that it is going to be an economic committee of the Catalonian Parliament that says: 'This credit is paid and this credit is not paid? Man! We already know what you want to do, you're seen coming. You are, in some ways, about the restructuring of the debt, which, in short, means: "This credit, because I say it, is paid, and this is not. And that's a irresponsibility, because when you don't pay the debts, nobody finances you, and that collapses the economy. Therefore – therefore – at this point I also want to insist that this proposal is not casual, because we already know the taste of communism for the concentration of power in one hand, and therefore that is the soul that somehow inspires the writing of that article. Likewise, they could not fail to appeal to the default of the debt; they call it, euphemistically, "restructuring, but we should also remember that the pulse – the pulse – that his correspondents in Greece, Mr Tsipras and company, threw at the European Union was fatal. And not for him, no; finally, it was disastrous for the Hellenic citizens, for the Hellenic people, and there are the consequences. Fortunately, they have begun to realize that the chosen path was clearly wrong. We can agree, however – to see that some meeting point always exists – on the need for contractual clauses in banking contracts to be intelligible and comprehensible to the user or to the borrower of a credit. It is a requirement, on the other hand, already included in banking regulations and in general procurement as a protective standard for consumers and users. What we cannot share is the imprescriptibility of the action of nullity, because it undermines legal certainty and the fair balance of benefits between the parties. Nor can we agree that small and medium-sized enterprises – it is in the joint venture – should be assimilated to the status of consumers and users, and it cannot be produced because the former act in the market in the same way as large enterprises do, and also because of the professional and commercial consideration of the activity itself. It's a purely conceptual aspect. Therefore, it also seems to us wrong. In short, you see that there are plenty of reasons to return the proposal, given that we consider it inappropriate, and hence our amendment as a whole. On the other hand, we are the only Members of the House, the only parliamentary group that, contrary to what the rest of the groups are doing, who have become accustomed to this pernicious dynamic of recognizing you, gentlemen of the UPC, a certain moral authority for the sake of political correctness, we clearly combat, from an ideological point of view, what you propose. The rest of the groups, well, on these issues prefer to profile themselves. Over there, they'll have a chance to explain it. But this proposal is, as I said earlier, inappropriate. And I want to conclude – I want to conclude – by referring to issues that at the moment, which in Parliament the groups that are betting on the break-up want to give them so much epic..., that we must never forget that the refuge of a good politician is always the word, but the measured word, the measured word, the balanced word, because otherwise – otherwise – we can do the most gruesome ridiculous, and yesterday – yesterday – we live it especially. And the saddest thing, the most disappointing thing, is that a lot of people saw it. You wanted the world to look at us; for yesterday it would have been better for the world to turn around, because what happened in the Parliament of Catalonia was simply – it was simply – an authentic dislate. And if it were just that, if it was just the theater that we were accustomed to in this chamber to have to suffer invariably, well, we could incardinate it in the field of political dialectics, but the problem is that yesterday you laid the foundations for dynamitating coexistence, for dynamitating peaceful coexistence among Catalans, and it is a irresponsibility never known in modern parliamentaryism. The fact that you have blown up the rule of law is something that has never been seen in recent times. And therefore, I call on you, I appeal to you to postpone this approach. Obviously, the rule of law will not remain unharmed, and it will use all legal remedies available to it – which are also legitimate – to combat and counter this challenge. I say this because the breakdown of coexistence normally – normally – does not pay for it, not for those who promote it in their own skin, but for the people they manipulate, the people they mobilize, the people they deceive. And I hope that the Catalan people will rise to the occasion and not fall into the trap that you have set us clearly torturing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.25.0	Mr. Santamaría, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.26.0	I'm done, President. As I say, the rule of law always prevails, and although you torpedoed it yesterday, you will certainly not be able to sink it. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.27.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. The words of Mr. Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, to fix their position.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.28.0	Thank you, President. Counsellors, Members of Parliament, very good morning. I will begin my speech by referring to something that we would certainly agree with the vast majority of Members of this Parliament, and then I will assess the proposed law against bank abuse that the CUP has presented to us, and which will help me to establish, to establish the position of Citizens in this whole amendment debate. It is clear that scandals such as preference, ground clauses or the rescue of entities whose managers have in many cases ended up before the courts highlight the need for better regulation and implementation of codes of good practice. We have to regulate better so that they do not repeat abuses like that experienced by almost 1 million people who put their savings in preferred shares, a financial product that, without a doubt, was absolutely unknown by the vast majority of customers and savers, and which served the banks precisely to cover the growing losses they were suffering. As we all know, through the preferents the savers were deceived by concealing their risks, and that, of course, has also caused them serious economic losses. A deception, this, which turned into a scam when in addition – when in addition – they continued to sell at a hundred_per_cent of the nominal price when their real price was already much lower. Never again, therefore, must we allow the abuses and deceptions that have occurred in relation to customers and savers to occur. Another paradigmatic example of the need to improve regulation is precisely the abuses and bad practices that have been practised with ground clauses. When the banks learned that interest rates would fall, they immediately ran to put ground clauses that shielded their profits. But they were benefits that weren't exactly the normal, the reasonable, the expectable, not: with the ground clauses, the banks wanted an additional benefit that meant a very clear injury to the customers, who had to continue paying the same interest when the rates were going down. Well, it is clear that it is necessary to regulate so that the ground clauses no longer occur, but we also have to regulate, precisely, to prevent additional fees from being charged for the early maturity of mortgage loans. Or we have to regulate so that the costs of formalising mortgages are shared between the bank and consumers or customers, not like now, that all fall to consumers. We have to legislate, precisely, so that you don't set productivity bonuses again to put mortgages, huh? , who know that that's exactly what leads to is perverse incentives, which do not properly value risk. We must better regulate budget executions by linking implementation of them not to certain deadlines, but to certain amounts. We want, from Citizens, to create an authority to defend the saver precisely in order to unify in that figure, in that new figure, the scattered powers that at the moment have different regulatory bodies - the Banco de España, the National Commission on Markets and Competition, the National Commission on the Securities Market. And precisely this authority will have the capacity to initiate collective actions in the presence of abusive practices or clauses in contracts. There is no doubt that another fundamental aspect of why it is necessary to regulate better is due to the bank bailout that took place and that now, at the moment, without the cost being definitive, around 61,000_million_euros, that is, about 3,300_euros per Spanish family. Well, we may doubt whether rescue was necessary or not; but, in any case, what is quite true is that, once it occurs, public administrations should have managed the issue so that their actions were aimed precisely at diminishing – to diminish – the breakdown that was to be expected for the taxpayer. Nor has that been done – nor has that been done – because the Court of Auditors itself has detected and denounced irregularities and arbitrariness of the Bank-Organized Restructuring Fund that could well – we suspect – have artificially and unnecessarily increased the ransom bill borne by all Spaniards. The FROB – the FROB – set the price and determined the conditions of sale of recapitalised entities, recapitalised entities, without a regulated procedure for choosing the buyer. This is really serious. But this not only happened, but also the FROB itself did not have any control when it fixed the amount of the guarantees against the losses that the State granted to the buyers of broken boxes. I mean, it didn't just cost us a_euro..., or, rather, the Sabadell, for example, bought for a_euro, but the truth is that guarantees of 16,000.600_million were established so that, in case there were bad assets..., the state would charge up to 16,000.600_million. Well, that didn't just happen with the Sabadell, it happened with all those entities that wanted to buy broken boxes and that naturally shielded themselves so that under no circumstances did the operation come out in any bad way, but simply always in favor. In short, there are many – many – reasons why it is necessary to establish better banking regulation. Well, in order to develop this new regulation, one fundamental aspect that we must bear in mind is that the misinformation of customers and savers is at the centre of abuse and bad practices. It is this misinformation that has allowed multiple abuses, such as ground clauses, excessive delay interests and even home evictions. The small letter of the contracts has been an instrument that has always played against ordinary citizens. But bad practices have not only been done in Spain. What differentiates us is the behavior of supervisors, who have imposed ridiculous sanctions compared to sanctions such as those imposed in the case of the United States or Great Britain, where the fines in the financial package actually amounted to 150,000_million from 2009 to 2015. Here in 2014 and 2015 were 23_million. Compare. We therefore need independent supervisors to bring banks, especially large banks, to the waist and ensure that legality is respected. We cannot allow the troupes made by banks or savings banks, or which they can commit in the future, to go out for free. We therefore share with the majority in this Parliament that it is necessary to protect savers, and, aware of that need, we have not tabled an amendment as a whole. In Citizens we want to work to improve banking regulation and protect the consumer. We're going to do it in Congress and we want to do it here. But we are going to abstain in the amendment to the whole, because in no way can we vote against the amendment, because we are facing a proposal for a law that is a pamphlet – I am sorry to have what to say, but it is so – the legal technique shines by its absence, the competitive invasion is blatant, it perspires prejudices against financial institutions and it glimpses – it glimpses – a totalitarian vision of the state. That is why, in the event that this proposal continues, we, in the process of parliamentary procedure, will make every effort to change the proposal, but not to change the one a little bit: from the top down, from the explanatory statement to the last provision. We're convinced that just turning this proposal around, like a sock, huh? , we will get a much more efficient banking – which we need, by the way, more than ever – with supervisors and public institutions that protect the rights of consumers and savers. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.29.0	Thank you, Mr. Spiny. She apologized to Mrs. Reguant, because she had a right to a turn against. If he wants to..., he wants to do it now? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] A turn against the object to the totality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.30.0	Thank you, President. And don't worry, I understand that today we're all a little slower than normal – so am I. Very briefly, for a few things that have been said. Apart from the topics, to talk about Bolshevik revolution in Venice, etc., they are a little more original. We wear two years with the same song. I don't know, there are more countries in the world, we have more international referents. Look, find out, and maybe we can make the debate more rich, 'cause it's getting a little tired. You said the system was wrong. No, no, you're not fatal. The system was not wrong: it reproduces systemically intentionally, and what ends up being readjusted to keep the same objects that it has always had, that are that a few get benefits from the rest. So, no, it's not a mistake. Or, if it's a mistake, it's that at some point it was practically discovered and people started shouting, "It's not a crisis, it's a scam. This is the mistake they made: that, for a little while, they discovered, but in the end they managed to survive. I mean... no. You also mentioned that your government has legislated in favour of consumers. Yeah? [[Pause.]] No, no, See, we're going to look at a case, because here we see a little bit of connections from all over and where you've legislated and others have also helped them legislate. The year 2011, the Supreme condemns Alfredo Sáenz – I don't know if he sounds them –, vice president of Santander, to three months of imprisonment and disqualification to manage financial entities. The last Council of Ministers of the PSOE – yes, of the PSOE – pardons it. The February of 2013 the Supreme annulled the indult and kept the antecedents, and, therefore, the disqualification, but two months later – two – the Government of the People's Party, which according to your legislation in favor of consumers, makes a royal decree that modifies the legislation so that bankers with criminal antecedents can continue to exercise as bankers. Yes, sir: to legislate in favour of consumers. I think that's why it's supposed to keep the privileges of those who have played with consumer rights for years, it's not legislation for consumers. And I'm setting this example..., we could put some more, but with this one I think there's enough, because it also shows how all political forces have been for years playing and navigating in the same way to protect the same ones forever. So, that's enough. But then, one more thing, I'll tell you, no, restructuring isn't payback, huh? No, no. It's not like we use a word when we want to say another word. No, no. When we want to say pay-off of the debt, we make it very clear. And we made it very clear that illegitimate debt is not paid, and that is not restructuring the debt. Restructuring the debt is what, for years, funded entities have played with the southern countries to such an extent that each time they restructured, put in place conditions and put in even more conditions the lives of the people of these countries. And no, we're not talking about this. We talk, when we want to say it, about debt default. But what we're doing here, assuming that it's a piece, a piece strictly to put the good to the wound, to calmly address the debate in depth that can be addressed, is to say: for years, the funded entities have played or had more strength than the public administrations, the public administrations responsible for managing public services. And what we're saying is, we have a minimum of conditions so that the public administration can have a minimum of conditions at the time of negotiating debt restructurings or credits with funded entities. Here we are, the Bolshevik revolution, to say the least. So, the day we do it, I think you take it... I don't know, because if.....putting down a few pieces for you is a revolution? , to ensure that the Public Administration has the capacity to manage public services is to make the revolution? We don't demonize the private sector, but it's that you idolatre and, in the background, like..., pose in the center of everything, because, if you understand that putting this minimum of guarantees is making the revolution, we really knew it, huh? But it's that we're on the ideological front, but we're not just ideological anymore, just the way we intend to do politics and preserve the rights of everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.31.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. Next, the words of Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.32.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. So today brings us to debate a bill's proposal about the bank bust, the Popular Unity Candidature Group. We are already moving forward that we will vote on the whole issue that the People's Party is doing to us, because we believe that it is a good thing that we are talking about an issue that has affected both the citizens and that has impoverished so much and so much families, probably, among other things, for bad regulation and bad control that governments and regulatory bodies have made of the entire banking system. No, I don't want to go into a debate that we would never finish on how it was done with the bank restructuring or with our model of boxes, which more than in the previous legislature we were able to talk enough about in a committee of inquiry that was done with Catalan boxes, and in which I was able to participate. And I think that there we all made it very clear, in the conclusions, what was the role of the boxes, in many cases – or in most cases, not to mention in its totality – with a sad role for which he expected from the boxes, which was a social function, which was a representation of Catalan society, for the benefit of the community. And that, obviously, as we have seen, in most cases, so it was not complete, and it was not completed, among other things, because, as I said, there was not the necessary control of the regulators: neither the Bank of Spain, nor the CNMV nor, obviously, the Government. And from the Socialist Group we did not have a problem, in those conclusions, with saying this, because it also seems to us that when the governments themselves are wrong, or the own governments with whom we share an ideological project are wrong, so we must also say. There were a lot of mistakes at the end of the socialist stage, and we said it and we wrote it, and we voted it. So I don't want to get into this, but it's true that they made mistakes. There have been mistakes that today do not allow us to have a model of Catalan caskets with that social function that the law, the own law of caskets established. It is true that in these past years there have been many bad banking practices, and some have been commented upon. I would also like to quote a few others: the clauses only; the bonds of the loans and mortgages to the IRPH; the multi-divided mortgages; swaps; the preferents, which have done so much harm to Catalonia; the interests of delay in loan contracts beyond two points, or the evil banking commissions. And they are practical evils, not because we say so, but because we have been repeatedly told by international bodies: the International Monetary Fund warned us of these abusive practical evils, years ago it warned us of these abusive practical evils, and the truth is that it would play as the government acted in a definitive way. To put some data on the table; in 2015, Banc d'Espanya covered 20,262 complaints from bank customers. Of these, almost a 75_per_cent were favorable, but there are some banks that have not met even 20_per_cent of these favorable claims, that is, that they ignore, say, these resolutions that do more than..., than the Bank of Spain, right? And this 2016 is true that they have dropped the complaints, which are now 14,500, but of these, too, 61_per_cent have been favorable, and the banks, in general, remain unresponsive to these resolutions made by the Bank of Spain. That is why, as I said earlier, the International Monetary Fund warns the State that this cannot be done, and the State has taken the decision, already well, for the international bodies, to create an authority to protect the breeder and investor to finance, with two elements for us important: one, which is that it assumes the functions of these regulators, such as the Bank of Spain, the CNMV and the Directorate General of Insurance, in order to be able to sanction, that it is something that these regulators cannot do today. And if it is sanctioned, it will be understood that they can, say, move this will and this action of the banks that today, in many cases, therefore, do not act in favor of the customers when the Bank of Spain gives them the reason. From the Socialist Group to the Congress it has been demanded that this body which is to be created can clearly sanction and that, obviously, it is made up of people of merit and skill and, therefore, that it is independent, at the most independent, with professionals who follow those who decide on a very technical subject and who need the best professionals. What have we been surprised by this proposal of the law? I said we'd let it go, from the entrance. Honestly, huh? , Mrs. Regant, and the Candidacy..., seemed to us bleak. Clearly, it's very different from what Mr. Santamaría has said. Yes, it seems to me to be trepidation, and a little courage and a little ambition, especially considering that today they will break with Catalan law and create a new legality, a new legal order, in which you could, for example, set up an independent body that does exactly what the IMF asks of the state, right? And we expect the Spanish State to set up as soon as possible. It turns out that, speaking of "banking busts, we're only finally defining three or four aspects, aren't we? , which are, therefore, illegitimate debts, usury..., three or four elements that seem to us..., some of us would like to kill them and, therefore, in processing we will like to be able to talk more calmly, but they seem insufficient to us. There's something else that hasn't just convinced us, that's who decides that it's an illegitimate debt or that there's a usurper debt. So, in some cases, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, which does not seem to be the most appropriate body to do this, and in some other cases, the appropriate public body, the public body's own joint or direction, does it not? It would be good if whoever you decide this was an independent body, who decide that a debt is illegitimate or not, or if it is usurped in a mortgage credit that has been made by a public administration. Therefore, here it seemed to us in this sense, that they were not brave to say: «Listen to me..., if indeed, more, you, who are breaking with legality, are creating a new legal order..., do not plant this body already directly, that makes binding decisions, that can sanction the banks and that is really separate from the legislator and the execution. Obviously, in all the law's proposition it does not appear that banks can be sanctioned and, if that is not the case, it is very difficult that, as we say, customers can see their claims resolved. You already see in your proposal that you place the focus on the debt to the administrations and, therefore, on this element, right? But it seems to us that if we really want to talk about the bank vault, then we don't think we should talk a little bit more. There are elements that seem good to us, such as, for example, the non-prescription of nullity. It is a good proposal, because it is true that, at these times, we cannot try to nullify some elements, some abusive banking practices because they have already prescribed. And so, that's bad news for the user and the bank's client, isn't it? So this one looks good to us. But we believe that he lacks this ambition, so that we can lay down this proposal for law as a law against bank abuse, because, among other things, if we don't skip our legality, we don't have enough skills, and already... if we pretend to skip it, then we do well and create this body, and we put in the measures because we actually, from Catalonia, can act. So, it looks like tebi to us. It seems to us that we are left with a land that we do not know if it will end up solving the hard problems of bad banking practices that we pat the citizens and that, in part – in part – also suffers the Public Administration. There are some elements that you haven't just shared. At the presentation of the motion there are aspects, therefore, that could generate a lot of debate and, therefore, I believe that, in any case, we can do this in the parliamentary process. But honestly, as I said, we'll allow the process. We think it's good to talk about it. There has been a lot of talk about it in this House; we had a year of work and it was very interesting, and I think there were elements that put forward proposals and solutions, but it is certain that the competitions are not here; in fact, they are not in Madrid either, so little can be done in the European field, but in what we can, therefore, it would be good to put it. The CUP doesn't put it into this new legality that you want to create today, and that's why it seems to us that there's a little bit left and maybe with a certain postureg, which I guess is what it is when we're more in the campaign, say, that I'm doing politics. But anyway, in any case, we would vote against this whole question, we believe it is worth talking about, but it would also be good to see in which we are and how we make real, courageous and ambitious proposals to fight against this bank bust that today – today – still the boxes are real and, to a large extent, they are still allowed, and we hope that in this case the State, where it has competitions, can do so. And if not, that the new one that some people want to build does it, but that they do it for real, because it seems that in the end it's a lot of you. And we'd love it if you... those who want to build a new world, a new country, a new state, not just make it new, but make it better. And so, too, this suggestion that I be like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.33.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Next, the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.34.0	Well, thank you, President. To thank the Lord Remnant for the reply he has made to the Lord Santamaría, who has placed the one we are debating: this proposal of law. Because with the hint of the slow rhetoric that you presented and the slow rhetoric that Mr. Sergio Santamaría answered, it seemed that we were about to debate the Communist Manifesto or the manual of the good revolutionary, and we are talking about a much smaller subject: we are talking about a proposal of law that seems interesting to us. The proposal of the law that you present, in the stated objectives, that we share largely, seems interesting, because we believe that it is opportune that the public authorities have elements of self-protection of the abuses of some banking corporations and also of consumer protection, while, as is usual in the proposals that they present, it is loaded with desires, good intentions, declarations that often sound good, but sometimes the lack of that remedy is effective in giving it the character of the law. And it has already been said here: sometimes, because of the lack of the legislator's skills in some aspects, or sometimes by unconsciousness or mass generalization of the joint. In any case, anything that can't be solved in a process where we can be advised by experts that we can listen, do papers, negotiate them, narrow the objectives and improve the final text. Therefore, I am already telling you that we will vote against the threat to the whole People's Party, because we believe that it would be good to have a law of these characteristics as you present, and we would certainly like to do all this well and end up having a good legal text. We would have liked it too, yesterday, in a law that you said was more important and we couldn't do it. And, therefore, we will allow it to be passed on with our vote. But let me talk about the text, because if you don't, you can also criticize me for what I criticized at first. We agree, I have already said, in large part of the statement of reasons: it is certain that the transformation of the real economy simply into finance is posing..., it has begun to pose but it is putting the guarantee of the rights of citizens on the part of the public authorities at risk, this guarantee that the public authorities must hold the citizen at risk precisely for this transformation of the real economy into a financial economy. It is clear that the financial economy has been a substitute for the productive economy, and that public control of money movements has been a substitute for the control of public services by the large holders of money through the generation and control of the debt. In all of this we agree, in all of this motius exposition, it's obvious. And it's certain one thing, and it's that in the fund the financial entities have gone through their social function, that they have it – social function, that they have it –, and they have ended up converting and dedicating themselves exclusively to the business of money. And it's not true that this is his only occupation. The social function is basic, and they have been obviating and oblivious to it passing through the city and citizens, and using the "all is well," which is what has caused the abuses that we all know and, therefore, can only talk about. Therefore, it is legitimate; therefore, it is urgent; therefore, it is essential that the public authorities join these abuses and can regain democratic control of finances in order to guarantee the rights of the citizenry in the first place. The only one I don't understand the mass of the motivational exposure is when they say that ‘this law doesn't want to reverse policies that are indecent in relation to the Spanish banking sector. Sort, obviously. I mean, first of all, because I understand that we... or, at least, you don't have to want to intervene in the Spanish State. And, second, because we don't actually have the skills to do it. In any case, this is why I believe that this would be the first problem we have in the joint and that we should look to find a way to solve it, because Parliament has no competence in the current to regulate generally funded markets up to the level that the proposal makes. Even so – it has also been said here – can contradict Spanish legislation and the European legislation that regulates it. Therefore, we can become independent, but they must not want to be autonomous, I mean, we have to take these regulations into account. Now, it can regulate what is to be the behaviour of public administrations in relation to the conditions of the claims they contract. Therefore, we have plenty of scope to finish concretely and see how we resolve this issue of competitions. In the article, its proposal focuses on a basic concept, which is defined in Article 1, which provides more protection for consumers and consumers and public administrations. Don't say against what, but it's understood, it's two, it's against the bank vault. We're on board, aren't we? They then divide it into two chapters: the first, in relation to the public sector, focused on the declaration of "abusefulness," let's say, of the claims, which should ultimately have, as a consequence, the nullity of these a couple may be declared illegitimate. We agree with the concept, but we're going to have to get ahead of ourselves. We would have to go first, first, because Article 2 would form part of what we would say « wish law, which expresses the desire but not concrete enough how, we link to allow it, to be able to make the regulation. For example, what do you mean by protection? What are they, how do we define the 'unfair commercial practices'? Who are the "abuse clauses"? What do we mean when we day abuse? I'd like to make it a reality. Or Article 3, which instructs the Parliament, to its Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, to declare the illegality, by abuse, of a claim to a public administration. Of course, we are regulating competitions that correspond to Parliament's Rules of Procedure and that probably, assuming that this was the best option, would demand reform of some aspects of this. We're going to have to run faster, too. In Article 5 we declare null and void abusive claims. Okay – okay – but who promoted me? Who's declaring me? With five criteria? With what mechanisms? We're making a legal text with very strong implications so we can leave it unconcrete. And in Articles 6 and 7, in relation to the restructuring of the debt – the idea we also share – the proposal expresses the idea but leaves it in the area. Who decides to start the restructuring process? Who promoted it? How do you accept it? Are there mediation mechanisms? What are the consequences of acceptance or not? How do you come to terms? How do they generate bonds? That is to say, speak generically, also, of the legal services and the intervention of the public administrations. I think it is essential here to define the procedure and value the skills to execute it, because, if not, we can stay in the fire of incense. The second chapter, which is much shorter, points to some scattered measures to protect private users, and also considers, in this area, as Article 12 says, self-employed persons, small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed entities. They introduce into Article 9 an innovative element – which seems interesting to us – that has a laudable objective, such as ensuring that users know the elements of the contract well, so that we can identify what they want to sign. What's going on is that it's very complex to execute precisely because it individualizes and personalizes these contracts and makes it very difficult to execute, and therefore it would be hot here to think about how to develop – perhaps through the regulation – or how to concretely or simplify this object more. Finally, the transitional provision cancels the amounts paid to public administrations in the last two years for those concepts which the law incorporates, which the law defines as commissions, let us say, "outside the law. And it also establishes that the money will have to be reintegrated by the entities that have collected it. In the beginning we agree, but, of course, to establish a retroactivity for something that today is declared illegal when it wasn't yesterday, I think that, despite the good will of the wish, it can have little real recourse if we don't manage to run very first. In summary, therefore, we believe that it is a proposal with very good will but a little rigorous, ambiguous in some respects, very indefinite in some other aspects and that it obvious some competences that are not to be legally effective in other aspects. However, in this case we believe it is necessary, desirable, that there is a legal text on guarantees, on transparency in financial contracts, that has the guarantee to be valid and with concrete effects, and that this can be taken as a basis for the proposal that you submit to us, putting it to the level of competence that you correspond and ensuring that those legal aspects that they pretend to be coercive are put into practice. It is for this reason, therefore, that we want it to be done, that we make the corresponding process of appearances, discussions, and that we work to give instruments to the administrations and allow them to'recover the real control over the economy and the finances, and, above all, the guarantee of the rights for the citizenry. Therefore, let us reiterate our vote against the challenge to the totality of the PP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.35.0	Thank you, Mr. Marc Vidal. The words of Mr Roger Torrent, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.36.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Miri, Mr. Santamaría – now I don't see it; ah, yes, there at the fund – just at the time you were speaking, with that measured word that you just did when I spoke from here, from the Faristol, and just at the very moment when you were talking about ‘vitalizing togetherness, we could read a last-minute news that the Government of the State will only recover 14,000_million euros out of 54,000_million euros for the bank rescue – 14,000 out of 54,000. This, therefore, means that €40,000_million is lost. They give for lost 40,000_million euros when the same government in the high and clear state that this would not cost the taxpayers a hard time. From a hard, or a_euro, to 40,000_million euros in a few. So, if you want, we're talking about "bankophilia," which you were talking about, but we'd also have to talk, then, about... you were talking about "bankophilia, not bankophilia. If you were talking about "banking, which I agree with, then we would have to talk about "banking, which is what you have practiced, or, better said, the connivance, the communion of interests between political power and the power to finance: 40,000_million euros of all taxpayers. And this is what has brought out the financial crisis, the economic crisis: this connivance, this communion of interests between political power, a political power, and the financial power. However, under this, under the macro level, under the dalt level, the economic crisis and the ill-fated financing also revealed many other particular dramatic situations. During these years of crisis, from now on, we might say, from years that began, there has obviously been a great deal of over-indebtedness over-indebtedness that has constituted a real social emergence. We have not talked enough, we have also tried to legislate enough until then where the Constitutional Court has left us to look to deal with this situation of many families, but in any case, the economic crisis, the financial crisis has also uncovered this social emergence, a dramatic family situation just caused by the economic crisis and financing, which, for another group, if we look at it, also poses a structural situation that has resulted precisely in this over-indebtedness. We saw the financial crisis as the relationship of consumption between financial and private entities was not a relationship of equals, it was not a relationship of you to you, it was not a relationship of equal conditions: it was a relationship in which the acquaintances of one band, the understanding of what it was about one band was much superior to the other. And, therefore, it generated a situation of inequality and, in the end and in the end, a situation of lack of protection. This has taught us, sadly, the crisis. Therefore, we can say that during all these years we have proven that there was not enough control of the system to finance macro questions, general questions, but also as this affected families, so citizens and citizens of the street. And it is in this sense, that is why we obviously agree with the object of this bill, which is what the CUP Parliamentary Group is proposing to us today. Says the first article of this bill for what it does to its object that the tape that is proposed is the expansion of consumer protection, and so, obviously in general, we are completely in agreement. But not only in general, I insist: all and every one of the cases that occurred during this crisis tells us that there is a need for a more strict regulatory framework, a more strict regulatory framework in these consumer relations for which it makes private, but also for which it makes public administrations. At the end and the end, what we want to achieve – and this is what we agree on in the objectives that mark this proposal – are more critical consumers and, if they want to do so, more cautiously at the time of attending the market; more informed consumers, and, finally – and above all, closer to us – more protected consumers. Sobrirania. That's more or less to say, "Mr. Regan's sovereignty, and I agree. Finally, it is a question of sovereignty: particular sovereignty of the families of this country who, when they go to a financial entity, a banking entity, are not in a situation of inequality and, therefore, follow a situation from you to you; but also sovereignty of the public administrations, sovereignty of the country. And here we can talk about the great financing instrument of the Government of the last years, which is the FLA. I have said 'fundamental' and I should say'sustainable'. We can talk about what the FLA actually meant for the Catalonian Government and the capdavall for the butxaques of all Catalans and Catalans. We can talk about these between 3,000 and 4,000_million euros of interest that we have been paying – we have been paying all, all the taxpayers of this country – which is practically the teaching assumption. So when we talk about usury, when we talk about situations of inequality for what it does to public administrations when they come to finance themselves, we should obviously talk about the FLA. And if, among other things, we want sovereignty as well as the country, it is precisely to be able to disconnect us from the instrument of the FLA, from an instrument, I insist, to usurp. In short, more critical, more informed and above all – above all, more protected consumers, private consumers and public administration consumers. Therefore, we agree that we need to strengthen the regulatory framework, not just to make it ad hoc, but not just to "discard" – said Mrs. Regant – the harmful effects, harmful, of the financial crisis, of the economic crisis that we experienced in recent years, but to strengthen the regulatory framework precisely in order to have structural solutions. And as Congressman Vidal said, to do this, to make this regular, stable, lasting mark, and that actually there is no toast to the sun, but it is a protection tool, which is more concrete, to work more on this law proposal. In fact, we want to work harder. In fact, if we have to vote on the content today because this was the final debate on this bill, we probably wouldn't agree. In fact, there are many points that we have not just seen well and that we would like to kill in an important way. That is why it is necessary that this proposal of law – the object of which, I insist, and as I say to the beginning, we share – can work in Parliament, can work in the case of a committee, can work in the field of a question, can listen to experts, can listen to all opinions and finally concretely listen to what seems to us today is simply drawn in this proposal of law. Therefore, we will vote that we do not address the totality that have promoted those bank wires, those that during the last few years have made decisions that have always benefited one side and, therefore, have contributed precisely to generating this greater inequality between each other, between the financial system and the families of this country, because precisely we want to talk about it, we want to talk about it in depth, we want to work on this bill. Therefore, for us it will not be, on the contrary: we have the hope to be able to work in depth what is being proposed today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.37.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Torrent. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Santamaría, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.38.0	President, for contradictions of Deputy Reguant and Deputy Junts pel Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.39.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.40.0	Thank you. First of all, regarding the deputy of Junts pel Yes. It seemed to me to hear something that I think is wrong: to classify the FLA as « usurer..., if it is being left to zero interest. In any case, if you don't like it, give it up, but explain it to the Catalans, that to see how public services are financed. To Mrs. Regant. Look, I agree with you in the reprehensible, ethically reprehensible, indeed, character of pardoning bankers. But ethically it is more reprehensible, and that is what you do, to ask for pardon for terrorists, to bring them to Parliament, to walk around here, to walk around Catalonia and to say that these are your political references. That's a lot worse and worse.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.41.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. Votes in favour of the Emena, 12; against, 98; abstentions, 25. As the challenge to totality has been rejected, this legislative initiative continues its processing. [[Opinion of the Commission for Research on Operation Catalonia]] [[261-00001/11]] The sixth item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee of Inquiry into Operation Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 66.6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Committee of Inquiry, at its sitting on 29 August, agreed to issue its opinion, which was published in the Official Butllet of the Parliament. In the first place, has the word Ms. Alba Vergés, president of the commission of investigation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.42.0	Well, good morning to everyone and everyone. Thank you, President. Members, Members of this House, of the Parliament of Catalonia, who were obliged to initiate, to open a commission of inquiry into the Catalonian operation, given that no one in the Spanish State, the Spanish Government, or the prosecutor's office, was acting before serious acts which directly attempt against the essence of democracy and which are obviously not conducive to a state of law. This Commission of Inquiry into Operation Catalonia has had a lot of work. It has received a response from most of the very worthy, hard-working parliamentary groups, and from a good number of fellow Members, to come and aggravate to this chamber, to this Parliament in Catalonia, which you see, given that there have been vetoes and vetoes in many other institutions and for many other public and private communication media in the Spanish State. I am talking here about journalists who have been investigating the Catalonian operation in concrete terms for a long time, but also about the state's keyloggers in general. I'm talking about journalists with the people in the public newspaper, who are Patricia López and Carlos Enrique Bayo, with Ernesto Ekaizer, with Pedro Águeda, and I'm sure I'm leaving some other people, who would know me hard now, here in the Faristol. We have also had lawyers who have explained to us the abuse of the Spanish State to use these parallel structures to make this brutal war in this concrete case against independence and the Catalan sovereignist movement; a sovereignist movement that emanates from the people and that we will return to the people this very October 1. This sovereignist process that they thought, from the Spanish State and from the Spanish States, that they could put up with cutting heads to the people who were in some institutional capacity and who, therefore, had power in this Generality of Catalonia, in the Parliament of Catalonia, in different Catalan institutions. They thought that cutting heads, that stupid and using communication media like this would stop a process that emanates from people and that has shown that what they want is to build a new country, not just closer and more just but cleaner. That's what we found in the Commission of Inquiry into Operation Catalonia, that's what we've been trying to investigate the different parliamentary groups that ended the commission of inquiry and worked hard on this commission of inquiry. And I want to publicly denounce two things: one of them is the political boycott on the part of different parliamentary groups, which I can understand that they do not like the content of what many appearances came to us in this parliamentary chamber, but also this boycott at work and at its own responsibility as Members of this Parliament, which was a committee set up with a majority of votes, which I was trying to put on the stakes. The responsibility, it seems to me, of all Members is to attend the committee, to work, to ask relevant questions to all Members and to obviously write 'in conclusions and to be able to debate them, not only in committee but also in plenary today. This I believe is everyone's responsibility, like my responsibility as the chairman of this committee of inquiry was to ensure at all times that all parliamentary groups could ask questions, freely, relevant to the people they came to see. This presidency tried to guarantee this because it committed itself to working together to clarify the facts that had passed and, above all, to give more democracy in this Parliament, and that includes all parliamentary groups, all Members of this Parliament and Members of this Parliament. And the second boycott I want to publicly denounce is, of course, the boycott of the Spanish State, which, given that it does not have major parliaments in the Parliament of Catalonia to be able to veto many appearances that had been called upon by the parliamentary groups of this chamber, used an opinion of the Council of State that included not only the current Government of the Spanish State but also previous governments, so that it included ex-Minister Jorge Fernández Díaz, a key piece, and thus showed the conclusions of the Commission; it included all the things and security forces of the State in action or in any other administrative situation, so that all of these commissioners of the political police were awarded and retired. This was a boycott of not wanting to clarify, and I denounce the lack of will to the Spanish State to give light to the locksmiths. And I wish it would come to pass in the future. Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.43.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. It has the word, for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the deputy Mr Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.44.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, today we see the opinion, the conclusions, of the CIOC. In the past part-session two investigative commissions were approved: one, precisely driven by Ciutadans, the known as « Vidal case or, perhaps, « Republican Left case, and the second, the one named CIOC, which we see today the conclusions and to which Ciutadans therefore did not oppose. We did say in the debate to constitute this commission, in which the impulse of this commission was demanded, that it is not a Catalonia operation, that it is not in any case an operation against Catalonia, because the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia is not a corrupt one; it speaks as if it were, but it is not. The attacks on Catalonia are historical. Convergence knows, we all know. We remember, of the case of Banca Catalana by Mr. Jordi Pujol and Soley, a first magnitude banking scandal, the first largest banking scandal in Spain; a scandal, we could say, català de soca-rel, for the person who was inside this scandal and also, perhaps, for the treatment that is being done, right? Because the patriarch of Catalanism by antonomasy, Mr. Pujol, remember him, escapes. Mr. Pujol cried out, with the interesting chorus of Democratic Convergence, that was attacking Catalonia. It was the first clear attack on Catalonia. A new bany of populism... maybe the first big bany of populism, which, it seems, gave him the conviction that he would enjoy impunity. Given what he did at the length of the years, maybe he'll convince himself, that he would enjoy it. We wanted the object of this commission to be expanded, that it should not have been only in Catalonia: it should have spoken, above all, of political espionage, a political espionage which, we also have to say, is not alien to Catalonia. As of April 2013, four years ago, a coincidence in time with the temporal reference that is also 'involved in the conclusions of this commission, we were going to promote a commission of inquiry on political espionage in Catalonia under the Government of Democratic Convergence, the Democratic Convergence, then, of Mr. Mas. There was also the always present Method 3, there was the Xavier Martorell, there was the Gordó Germà, to the detriment of Mr. Felipe Puig. Some might remember, because some might have been in that government. Well, it's about "state-clashers – state-clashers". Surely there are many political leaders in the State who believe that they can use power instruments for party benefit, violating what they want. Here we have a good example: the Government of the Generality and the majority that supports it are not, today precisely, a good example. State Clavegueres? Yes, let's say yes, also Catalonia – also Catalonia. Regrettably, it was managed by Mr. Jorge Fernández Díaz to the capdavant of the Ministry of Interior; regrettable, repugnant, denounced. We denounced him to the Congress of Deputies, and the first compromise that was asked of Mr. Rajoy was that he is in charge of this person in his government to be able to talk about a possible investment agreement. Therefore, for our part, we regret, reject it managed by Mr. Jorge Fernández Díaz. Regrettably, the partisan use he made of power, possibly. Regrettably, the performance of Mr. Daniel of Alfonso – yes, yes – at the head of the OAC, very regrettable. Certainly, filed for the government of Mr. Mas. We didn't want him to go to the head of the OAC, but Mr. But he did, and here, like all parliamentary groups, we rejected him. Therefore, this chamber has been removed from this person in due course. But well, we're in Matrix, we have to remember, today more than ever. We knew, and we could see more clearly at the length of this commission, that this commission was instrumental: there was a thesis that had to be defended, that the Government of Spain attacks Catalonia and that any tool is appropriate to attack Catalonia, because, you know, there is this duality "Caltalumna equal to Convergence". But it is denied that it has any bearing on the criminal history of the pujolist era. « No relation, it is said; or perhaps there is none? In any case, there is a historical truth, which is what Mr. Jordi Pujol and Mr. Soley can say that he married Catalonia and, therefore, logically, he took the dowry away. Apart from this, this commission, I return to say, has been instrumental, seeking a clear objective, that is to discredit the State, wanting to leave a very important part, a very important part, of the State: the same Generality. The same work plan, approved leaving aside most of the opposition proposals, is not an indicator, of this reality. The boycott – before, the rapporteur, the chairman of the committee – of the majority supporting the government, the separatist tripartite, to the Vidal committee makes it clear: "There can be no interference that can upset the thesis. There is only one corrupt government and this corrupt government is the Government of Spain. But, well, we know it's not good, and I think there are a lot of Catalans who start to see it clearly. Therefore, what we cannot do is to collaborate openly in closing the thesis that the conclusions make. The vast majority of the conclusions cannot be made directly by us; some conclusions that, at last, play with the witnesses of those who have identified themselves as the main protagonists. There was a particularly difficult day, which was the appearance of Mr Martín Blas, at the beginning of July, in which different spokespersons from parliamentary groups, therefore, wanted to put in their mouths things that he at the moment said, and they did so repeatedly. Also, the intention of instrumentalizing this commission, varying the work plan to correct and on the march encloses the sun made, for example, that a witness cited two members of a police union of Mossos d'Esquadra; therefore, they were still quoted when they did not have, and was known, a link to what was being investigated in this commission. Therefore, we must say that we will not work together together for the Yes, with the CUP and with the We can delegitimize the State leaving the Generality to the margin to validate, precisely, the separatist theses, because the opinion of this committee, the conclusions of this committee, has not been seen in this plenary today. It wasn't boycotting, too, the Vidal case commission. Finally, I want to make a brief point of something that surprised me, which called for my attention: the intervention of the Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Guinó, at this time in the defence that he made of the need for the creation of this commission, and it was a reference that he made to one of the founding fathers of the United States of America, Mr Jefferson, and to ethics, to his ethical condition. I, well, we're used to it, huh? , that from Convergence there is a place to make reference to great characters of history. We have been told, therefore, about Mandela, Gandhi, Martin Luther King, Rosa Parks, who passes through there, there is no problem. I have no doubt about the ethical quality of Mr. Thomas Jefferson, I don't have any, but one day as of today what I do want to make clear is that the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia cannot give any ethical lessons, no one, and that there is no government of the Generality comparable to Mr. Thomas Jefferson. And, to make it clear, the current government of the Generality is more close to Transsylvania than not to Pennsylvania. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.45.0	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.46.0	Madam President, counselors, deputies, deputies... Operation Catalunya, just? Analyzing the comparisons, we are on condition, from my parliamentary group, that what has passed to the Ministry of the Interior of the Government of Spain cannot be defined exclusively as "Operation Catalunya". From our point of view here there was a police unit, apart from what we could define as "normal channels of investigation, formed by high commands, in charge of discrediting political opponents, here in Catalonia, but also the rest of the State, and to stop or encourage corruption investigations that affected high levels of the People's Party. The Socialists voted in favour of the constitution of this committee of inquiry. But in the same parliamentary session in favour of the constitution of this committee, we also agreed and voted in favour of the constitution of another committee of inquiry, the name of the Vidal case. They remember, don't they? : the statements of Judge Vidal and Senator d'Esquerra Republicana, who went in affirming that there was going to be what seemed to be true in the end, that the government was making or had a cents on the margin of current legality, when it could not hold it; that it had fiscal data of everyone; that it would keep the ballot box. I hope that no business friend of any of the government's parties has done you the favor of buying the ballot boxes. Well, I won't do the whole description of the facts they already know. We are accustomed to true myths, to lying myths, to concealment, to which some of you call it cunning and which is no less than another way of circulating through the keyposts, that is, to diminish the democratic sense of politics, of the democratic quality of our system. Some of you struck the Vidal Commission on the first day. They didn't want the public opinion to know before the hour their way of acting. That day, deputies and deputies began to laminate the democratic right of minorities, which yesterday held its star point. They rolled out the democratic quality of the work in this Parliament. The Socialists – as we said at the same time – decided in fair correspondence that we would not attend the work of the other committee. The truth doesn't just have a color, though it bothers you. That said, we did not follow closely, as it could not otherwise be, the appearances, and we also analyzed why they did not appear. And he came to this point, to ask himself, are the security forces serving the society or the ruling party? Did the former Minister of the Interior of the Government of the State, the Minister of the People's Party, Mr. Jorge Fernández Díaz, create a unit called "patriotic police," or did the media call it that, to the service of their private interests? Did I know the president of the government, Mr. Rajoy? Did he let it go? Because we have known – not only for the appearances that have been made, but also for the leaks interested in the same Ministry of the Interior or members that formed part of this unit – that the Minister, Mr. Fernández Díaz, would have allegedly financed this irregular group of high-ranking police officers and that they were of his confidence. With the objective of what? From criminalizing democratic political forces, and, I repeat, obstructing investigations that affected some leaders of the People's Party, I repeat, not just Catalonia. This behavior, from our point of view, is profoundly antipatriotic and anti-democratic, it is one of the red lines that in the right state cannot be crossed. And I feel certain, as it is, that one of the parties that forms part of the coalition of government sense doubt have some problems with political corruption..., they have open sums for illegal schemes to make money from one side to the other; some leaders of this political formation imputed, such as the party's treasuries, and we will see how it will end; the Millet and Montull case trial pending judgment; the investigation of the 3_per_cent in march, under the instruction of a magistrate; all the family of the imputed President Pujol. And, therefore, what we say is that justice must come to the fore, but that cannot be an excuse for what has been going on: that on a landscape of irregularities and corruption, or corruption, files have been drawn up, mountains have been made to fight not corruption, but political ideas. Ideas, all of them, are legitimate, and must have a political response from democratic institutions, it's the democratic game. And these mountains that have taken place, that from our point of view are certain, in the end they have been disastrous for the very image of the security of the State, and in the end they have had, moreover, an uncontrollable end, since even the Minister, Mr. Fernández Díaz, was engraved on his desk with the former director of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia. A scandal. And what did we find? So the president of the Government of Spain is making the dish, looking at the other side; it is the speciality of the house, to say: "He is reading the mark or smoking a cigar. And that also leads us to say that I was probably in the case of the conxorxes. It is also true that, of the statements made here or in the Congress of Deputies, or of the information leaked, this was not possible to escape, but the political smell tells us that it could not be unaware of what one of his most trusted people was up to along his entire political path. From our point of view, the Ministry of the Interior has seen a clear shift of power outside the courts of justice. And we're not talking about any people, we're talking about the old state police dome. Certainly, those who are not retired today, are well placed in other public places or in other private businesses, even some with a Catalan background, you see for where. Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, the despots were not in the basement, they were in the care of the police and political officials of the ministry. What has happened is not pro-democratic rules that guarantee the quality of the political system, democratic quality that we defend in political action there, also in the Parliament of Catalonia, that we found it lacking in the last few hours. To conclude, we want to state that the security forces have made, fan and must make a phonative task in the fight against crime, in the fight against terrorism, but we note that from the dome of the Ministry of the Interior, in the mandate of Mr. Fernández Díaz, it was created a police or a police structure aimed at various things: to obstruct the scandals of corruption that affected some senior leaders of the People's Party; to follow, investigate and pursue political opponents; to produce fraudulent reports that have affected the Socialist Party Obrer, nationalist leaders in Catalonia like Mr. Trias or other political formations like We Can. All this with the knowledge and consent of the Minister, under the command of the Director of Police, Mr. Cosidó, and at the orders of the Director of Operational Actions, Mr. Eugenio Pino. And, therefore, and in order to finish this intervention, from the point of view of the Socialist Group, an unacceptable partisan use has occurred with political ends of the effects, means and resources of the Ministry of the Interior and of the bones and security forces of the State with a clear abus of power that breaks the essential rules of democracy and the state of law. Thank you, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.47.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrides... Mr. Terrades, I'm sorry. Next... [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]] The words of Mr Fachin, for the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.48.0	Thank you, President. It's a pleasure to be here to address our opinion to the plenary on some really serious facts. During the development of the committee of inquiry, we had an ambivalent feeling: for a band, surprise, right? , to listen to witnesses in the first person who have to put on guard any minimally democratic person, but at once a feeling of "why must this not alienate me? I'm a long way from listening to what I'm listening to, but sometimes I didn't just freak out. To what extent have we come: despite the very serious things that have been explained in this commission of inquiry that they were taking away from us, that unpleasant feeling of "so, does not alienate me. We knew, but always listening to him is fine. As Mrs Vergés said, we were lucky that, among other people, among the converging, there were journalists who even played security in some cases to denounce these serious facts. I speak of the public journalists, Patricia López and Enrique Bayo; Mr. Ekaizer also explained to us, for example, who was Mr. Olivera – go to Google, possessed« Olivera, « cloacas, « CITCO – ; Mr. Pedro Águeda, d'Eldiario. It is. I want to claim the enormous value of journalism when the other powers give symptoms of general failure. What we've been listening to is terrible, and terrible, is that in order to be able to listen to it, we have to face boycotts that only need to reaffirm the peril before which we find ourselves. We have seen how the committee that wanted to investigate these very events in Congress has been boycotted, and has been boycotted by three parties: the Socialist Party, Citizens and the People's Party; boycotts of appearances, boycotts of the ability to extend the term of study of grave events... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't say no. Your party voted against the fact that people very involved in this attended the Congress of Deputies, and this is documented. I can say not as much as I want. [[Greetings.]] He's been boycotted... these parties have been boycotted by the communication media that do bend before power. We haven't been able to see any state-owned television the documentary that denounces and documents the rigorous work of journalists. [[Greetings.]] What kind of democracy is this, in which Spanish Television does not explain to the citizen how the police and how – the police on their side diverted, after we talk about this... – the government, above all the government, of a state assaults the state of law? Why didn't Spanish Television want to post this documentary? Why did Antenna 3 not want to post this documentary? Why didn't Friday want to put this documentary down? There's no answer, and I think we all know it, the answer. He's been boycotted, he's been boycotted, he's been boycotted, he's been boycotted, he's boycotted, he's boycotted, he's boycotted, he's boycotted, he's boycotted, he's boycotted, he's boycotted, he's boycotted, he's boycotted, he's boycotted. We have seen people who have refused to go to the Parliament of Catalonia, but they are going to The Sixth. We've seen people who are refugees before legal arguments so they don't come to explain. President Mariano Rajoy did not come to Parliament. Well, we know that for President Mariano Rajoy the Parliament doesn't matter either, but it's not that he went to Congress either. It's what makes them so much for, to explain what's going on. And, finally, in this committee, the one here, we have seen as the same three groups – Citizens, Socialists and People's Party – have also boycotted. I have to say that in various degrees – I have to say. The Socialists have not come, directly, either a coup – or a coup. The People's Party endured a little, but it also ended up leaving. And I have to say – and it's also true – that Ciutan was there until the last moment; now, we understand that there was to be until the end. It is very difficult..., and we see here as, for example, the spokesman of the Socialist Party said: "Well, it is, of course, the Vidal Commission... We are also very angry with what has happened to the Vidal Commission, but one thing does not take the other – no, no, one thing does not take the other. When in the Parliament of Catalonia there is a committee where the former head of the Spanish National Police Internal Affairs is confronted and says, and claims, that he is a fan of punters, that he is falsifying reports, is there really any excuse for not being there listening to this? No, you don't. We..., and we have said it on repeated occasions during the commission of inquiry, and I want to repeat it here: that this commission of inquiry does not serve to make the report that all that corruption that has been the protagonist of Catalonia's Democratic Convergence is an invention of the State. We don't get through this – we don't get through this. Tests are on the table. We, for example, have denounced and will continue to denounce – and I put it as an example – the role of Mr Xavier Trias in building a health model that is a bit of opacity and corruption. We have denounced it and we will continue to denounce it: Mr Xavier Trias has been a part, together with many others, of the construction of a health system that should shame us. Now, I think, and we're very clear about that, that's one thing, but another thing is when Mr. Trias is done what he's done with the state's locksmiths. We are very clear that it is totally compatible to denounce policies against public health, against the transparency and good functioning of our services – it is totally compatible – with the very clear that before the action of the State's locksmiths we will be at the side of Mr Xavier Trias. Just as we hope– just as we hope–, and we know that it is so, that before these very claves any minimally democratic person, think what you think, will be at the side of Pablo Iglesias and Podemos, that they have also been victims of these very claves. We need to be very clear about this, because, if not – if not – we are already co-workers of the state's locksmiths. Mr. Matías Alonso, from Ciutadans, said: "Well, they want us to paint here that it is only the Spanish State. We are very clear, precisely because of this, because these questions are to be denounced with the same affective force to whom they affect and operate where they operate. And we've always done this. We've just been hit in the Plaza de Catalunya by the Mossos d'Esquadra, we've been spying, jumping the rules, by the Mossos d'Esquadra and by its political leaders, and we've denounced it with force. And we don't have a problem doing it, just like we don't have a problem reporting what's going on. So, before the barbershop, there's no fairness, and I think maybe that's the most important thing we could learn from this board of inquiry. I end up with a reflection, that I do from respect and from the soul to cry to recover dialog spaces. I can't help it – I can't help it – think that the same three groups that were undermining the Commission of Inquiry into Operation Catalonia are the same three groups that yesterday decided to abandon the escó and not politically debated on which the citizenry is concerned. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.49.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fachin. The words of Ms. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.50.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... When the desire to convert and build a story surpasses the goal of seeking and finding the truth, then it happens: that some MPs present here instead of making MPs and politicians become mere third-party interpreters, which is what you have been doing in that committee that you called and baptized« Operation Catalonia. The reality is that we began to participate in it with the hope, though uncertain, that you would maintain the decency of listening and not making interpretations or insisting on a story you had already written. And that didn't happen. Because you, in the end, always, like the good nationalists in your maximalist version, would be nothing without your story, and therefore your political proposals would remain in nothing. Nothing, because they'd run out of content. What would you do – what would you do – without your outer enemy? Whom could you blame? What would happen – what would happen – if you couldn't say that when you spend more money than you have – it's Madrid's fault, that when you buy expired prostheses so that patients in Catalan public hospitals suffer in exchange for commissions, it's also the fault that you want to charge our Catalan health? What would you do without that? What would you do without that epic, that epic nationalist in which you believe David is fighting against Goliath, in that "our enemy is the state? They would be little, very little. What would you do if you did not deny that individuality to each of the people who make up this land, Catalonia, and turned us all into a uniform magma called "poble català, where the one who disagrees is no longer part of the "poble català when discussing their dogma? What would you do – what would you do – if you did not have those supposed operations, those conspiracy against you, which also always come under a common slogan, and it is: "Everything that questions us as rulers is an operation against Catalonia? Are you imagining that all the governments we have had in Spain would have used that argument every time they were wrong or lost elections, or even discovered to them some member of their party who had stolen them? That's what happens to you. You, when you take the opposite, when you catch them in your lies, or when you chase your corrupts, it turns out that an operation has been organized against you, not your party, not your corrupts, but from Catalonia as a whole. And you, today, can't give any lessons. After what you did yesterday, after striking democracy like you did yesterday, don't far from a story of Don Quixote, that of the mills, remember? , enemies, etc.. You're in delirium. In the permanent delirium, in the delirium that imagines those enemies you are fighting against, when in reality the enemy is in you. And do you know why it is in you? Because you are the real oxymoron of democracy, the real oxymoron of coexistence, of freedoms, and of equality among all Catalans. And yesterday they proved it, because here there are Catalans of the first and second: those of the first, the independenceists; those of the second, represented almost in the middle of this Chamber, are of the second. And you come here today to give our lessons. It's amazing. Please note: there is only one sentence that we share in this opinion, and it is the one that says: "This committee should never have constituted itself. And it's true – it's true. The whole context of the opinion, therefore, we interpret them to the contrary, but we do share this phrase. And it is that in the end you have made this Parliament – just as you did yesterday, and just as you did with this committee of inquiry – a theatre. You in that committee decided that opinions were proven, that certain issues were not even to be discussed, because they were a reality and a revealed truth. This is not an inquisitorial court; it is not the commission of inquiry an inquisitorial court, and it is not this Parliament. You use the law in fraud to create that: inquisitorial courts against a party that governs this country, which is Spain, and therefore also Catalonia. And they're not gonna make it. You will not be able to endure the seams of lying much longer, you will burst, and you will burst for one thing: because you, always – always – who remember certain questions, make deaf ears. What questions do I refer to? When you are reminded that you are violating the rights of Catalans on a daily basis – and now I will explain to you why – you make absolutely deaf ears there. Look, I'm going to explain one thing to you: for you... what you call Operation Catalonia, do you know how it starts? It starts with garbage bags full of money crossing borders to Andorra and Chile, and they were carried by the Pujol family lords. That is the reality you want to hide, and now you want to sell us that it is the State..., or that it is even the forces and security bodies of the State that have invented all this? Is it that when they are yours, it is an operation? Is that a conspiracy? Is that an ideological persecution? Doesn't it make you ashamed to say that? Do you know what conspiracy and delinquency is? Collect fiscal data from Catalans and list them; make lists of good or bad judges according to what they think about independence; have laws hidden in a drawer and present them yesterday, at midnight. Do you know what the Penal Code used to say about night and light? Exactly that, that is exactly conspiracy and delinquency, devoting money from everyone to illegal acts, and stealing – stealing – from municipal censuses – the data from the homes of each of the Catalans we live in this land to use them in an illegal referendum. That is indeed delinquent and not what you are prejudging in this Faristol today, in the commission before, and long before constituting the. You of all this, on the other hand, did not want to give any explanation. Just coincided with the creation of the so-called Commission of Inquiry into Operation Catalonia when the opposition asked them for explanations on all these issues. They didn't want to talk about this, they didn't want to know the truth. Quite the contrary: you have emptied that commission so that others could not investigate what you are doing and how you are violating the rights of Catalans. Look, in the end what you are explaining throughout the speeches in this Faristol and what you did in the committee is not far from the revealed truth that you already had and that you had already written. Political independence made the story, the story of what is supposed to be a persecution. We may have warned and some other political parties have fed it, and fed it with equidistance, with a very short-term political vision. The Junts pel representative said Yes in the committee of inquiry a few statements last May 18 – I pointed out this because it is important – of 2017: "Through this commission what we want is to rebuild the narrative to exercise legal action against all people who are called to it. Stay with your story, stay with your soliloquy, and have at least – have at least – the human decency not to come later to interpret your roles as victims to those who have us used to. The only Catalan operation that has existed – the only one – was perpetrated by you yesterday, and it was to strike a blow to democracy, it was to try to blow up democracy in Catalonia: that is the real Catalonia operation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.51.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. The words "Mrs. Mireya Boya", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.52.0	Well, good morning to everyone. Thank you, President. The brutal war in the State against Catalan independence has long been mediated, fashioned, captured headlines in the media, and unfortunately these last few days we are seeing how this modus operandi is still shamefully in force. Mrs Garcia, I wonder if anyone doubts that there is a relationship between the note, the CIA, the Mossos, the state of opinion they want to create and the reference we will make on October 1. I wonder who's running the CITCO? Commissioner Olivera, one of the members of Operation Catalunya, who traveled to Switzerland to invent the fake account of Xavier Trias, decorated and now CITCO's leader. And why is no one talking about the clues that Ripoll's imam was a police confidant or CNI? Who's running the CNI? The minister of Catalan afers, the virreina of the harpsichord: Soraya. In the Catalonia operation, or in the state's keylogger operation, let's say as we are, we have seen recordings of the Camarga case ; the conversations between Fernández Díaz ; all the documentation concerning the case of the Little Nicholas, which revealed that there was this parallel brigade ; we have the statements of the witnesses who have come, some of them of very strong, like Commissioner Martín Blas, involved ; we have the feta work for investigative journalists with Carlos Enrique Bayo, Patricia López, Pedro Águeda or Ernesto Ekaizer, to whom we thank infinitely for the work they have done. And they're all very little likely to [[applause]] They're a little suspicious of being independent, basically because they're all working in the middle of Madrid. And even one of his own, one of those who work for the harpsichord, because they have published false information, Pedro J. Ramírez..., yesterday we were very emboldened with everything that was going on here, but I read what he said yesterday, talking about the government's failure to curb independence with the approval of the referendum law: "There is a great clumsiness in the way that people who are dealing with this within the government are managing it. Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría has been mentioned, we have to add the profile of Jorge Moragas, who is moving threads, media, police services, etc., to try to present the facts in a harmful way for separatism. Can you explain what this is? What are these statements? Think of arguing against Pedro J.? Because if they don't want to, it's true. And Albano said it very well: we've been boycotted, we've been boycotted here and in Madrid. And it's a shame. And I, the company of the PSC, would ask you not to apologize any more; in any case, that you explain to us or that you define what the LAG was, because the methods were the same; or that you explain to us what Mr. Villarejo, one of the commissioners, was doing, working for the Government of Rodríguez Zapatero, is that it does not see Fernández Díaz: a government of his party in Madrid had hired Mr. Villarejo to do exactly the same thing that he did in Fernández Díaz: operation of the state. We will reopen the commission – we will reopen the commission – but as we know there are many witnesses who have not appeared, so we think it would be useless. Some have apologized to this Council of State, which is the same as today's attempt to climb the sovereignty of this Parliament and this Government with a coup d'état orchestrated by the Constitutional Court. And in this sense we have seen many things. And you wouldn't want to stretch me out, would you? But for us, this political police brigade is an evidence, and it is not only an evidence that it is a parallel state structure formed by a drawing of commissioners, directed by Commissioner Pino, who occupied places of work outside the cataleg, which carried out prospective investigations against Catalan politicians, when they did not generate totally false mountains, which some have already explained here. One of the most important witnesses who came to the CIOC was Mr. Martín Blas, and his witnesses were able, or still, to ratify the statements that he himself made in his court, acknowledge that some of the officials who made the commissioners did not form part of his taskbook, confirmed that there were reports from the National Police to which he had "salt and pepper" – unsigned reports, apócrifs – before making them public in communication media so that they would publish without contrast, without signing. And to the chain of practice on the margins of the law of this entire political brigade, so we could add a lot of things, like this journey of this lord, who is now running the CITCO, right? Mr. Olivera, who came here to Barcelona, to see two prosecutors carrying the Palau case. Just before 9-N he said to them: « Run, run, let's make a escort to his Convergence, to see if we stop this 9-N. And with that I don't mean that the brute war has to cover corruption, because corruption exists. In fact, we're determined to put on lights and stenographers; we've published a book with names, numbers and all the cases that make reference, but when there's a bad practice reported to prosecutors to the Fiscal Council, it's that something that goes really wrong. And the political leaders, because this didn't work in an autonomous way... The content of the recordings shows the degree of putrefaction, cynicism and hatred of the political system of the Spanish State in Catalonia. We cannot frame in a state of law the practices of persecution, defamation, using for such political purposes the security of the State. Yes, in my knowledge, it was Jorge Fernández Díaz, but Mariano Rajoy knew it, Jorge Moragas knew it, Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría knew it, and they would not resign, because it is a shame. Like we're in a state that's a shame, and that's why we want to get out of this state, because there's total impunity for this kind of practice, so that's why we don't want to reopen this commission because it's no use, the only thing that's needed is to vote October 1 and go. The operation continues today, we've already said it before, and the communication media have a role to play: they want to create a state of opinion. The brutal war requires communication media so that it is difusal, that false information runs, that it has a great media impact, and if it is just before elections or key political moments of the Catalan independence process, then better than better. And that's how they want to influence the citizenry, that's how they try to influence the citizens of Catalonia so that I don't go to vote on October 1st: throwing shit, a prefabricated shit to Moncloa that comes out now and that will come out in the next three weeks in a brutal way, we're not convinced. And more connivance: the judicial front. We're out of the right state. This parallel brigade, this brutal war, this mountain has the connivance of many magistrates, judges and prosecutors, and now also the Constitutional Court. How can a refusal of all its members be resolved – is it to say, all its members refused – and they decide on their own refusal and are absolved? But what's this? Is that a straight state? [[Greetings.]] O Soraya, who said a few days ago, before voting here: "We have already prepared the answer to the vote on the laws of the referendum together with the prosecution. Ah, all right, separation of powers, fantasistic. This state loves us. Finally, and finally, the use of public funds and resources, which are therefore very expert, because apart from cases of corruption, so they have used public money to pay for trips to Andorra, Switzerland, the hours of work that were meant to follow other things, telephones, photocopies, etc. And now, three months ago: there are two hundred civilian guards who are following us here in Catalonia and trying to take out the shit we're supposed to have on this bench. And things are made up; yes – yes, yes – Mr. García Albiol, things are made up, I can tell. They are now once approved by the Law of the Referendum, signed by the Decree of summons and soon approved by the Law of Transition. They come by land, sea and air, we know that, because this is the Catalonia operation, because the crude war is with a multifrontal attack, that it is police, that it is political, that it is media and that it is judicial, and we see want without crime and suspensions, disqualifications, and many, and media gross war, and the desperate attempt to create a state of opinion on a people that has long taken the humble decision to self-governance, self-protection, self-determine, and to make an attempt to push this summit that is nothing more than the sovereignty of the Catalan people. And they're illusory, because theirs still feeds our determination more: their scandalous and brutal conxorxes are the paper that will fill the ballot box on October 1, and their threats are the vintage ticket to the street of the right and the sovereigns. And the measures they have prepared against us will stop thousands of citizens who have never stopped spending and who will bring us to freedom on October 1st. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.53.0	Thank you, Miss Boya. The words of Mr Lluís Guinó, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.54.0	Thank you, President. Members, before I begin my intervention and speak specifically about what is or has been done by the Catalonian Commission, which has had two functions: first, to put on the table the great work done by certain journalists and to objectively, empirically and with evidence, which will lead us to take judicial action after these conclusions, which has been done by the Ministry of the Interior and, therefore, by the Government, and which have not been concentrated on Minister Fernández Diaz..., which still presides over a committee of the Congress, which should not be carried out by the President of the Government, and which has not been done absolutely nor has it been possible to take part in any way in the European Parliament, such as the President of the Government usually gives them. And that was justified by different ways, but the crimes are there. There's been talk of the use of reserved sources. It has been credited to the committee that reserved funds have been used. He explained it to a private detective who came to explain it very clearly: he charged the police, and gave the name of the person and the contact there in Barcelona. And the use of sources reserved for certain issues is a crime, and there has been absolutely no legal proceedings. Since no legal proceedings have been opened, the progress that we will make with the hope that this political aberration that has been brought to an end only to do one thing... which, moreover, has completely failed: the independence process continues. The independence process yesterday demonstrated, with the approval of the Law of the Referendum, and with the approvals of the Law of Transition that it will end in this Parliament, that the independence process does not end, nor will it end with gross war. And it was only possible to put an end to this process by means of dialogue, and they have no intention of doing so or will certainly do so. To concentrate only on one of the interventions, I would like to say that of certain people we will not accept..., not only Together for the Yes, but the people we are part of Together for the Yes and that we are of the Democratic Party, and that certain people will not mislead us in political dignity, among other things because we will not accept lessons. [[applause]] absolutely none, and especially many of those who have the following list of cases of corruption, which is spectacular and long. No'hi cap, on the iPhone screen: Andratx case, Arena case, Baltar case, Library case, Bitel case, Bonsai case, Bon Sosec case, Brugal case, Barcenas case, Trojan horse case, Champion case, Carioca case, Cemetery case... And do you see me, Mrs. Esperanza García, giving lessons on respect for what questions? [[Greetings.]] Dignity—dignity—, political dignity and political positions, but you take on the difficult problem of corruption that your party has and that has not given any explanation at this time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Santamaría... President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.55.0	Excuse me, Mr. Guinó, I haven't seen him– I haven't seen him. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.56.0	No, it's just that I don't want to open a dialog with you directly. I intervened and I respected Mrs. Esperanza García's intervention, and I was probably much more outraged than hers! [[Greetings.]] [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.57.0	Mr. Santamaría...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.58.0	They haven't attended this committee in the first place because it's obvious...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.59.0	Mr. Santamaría, respect the chorus of words. [[You see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you ……]] Pardon me, Mr. Santamaría, now you don't have the use of the word; now you have Mr. Guinó's tea.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.60.0	There has been unquestionably brutal war, it has been believed and we have already insisted, and what would be normal in another more consolidated democracy and without deficits would be to assume responsibility. Someone said: "When did this start? What's the origin of all this? So, the origin of all this is a_dinar in which Mrs. Alicia Sánchez-Camacho participated very actively. And Mrs. Alicia Sánchez-Camacho is also a member of the Congress Table of Deputies and has given no explanation, and we dared to say that more... [[Widow's remorse.]] And we dared to say, moreover, that he surely lied in his parliamentary office, because he also remained conveniently believed. And in politics, more and more – more and more – to have dignity, to have principles, and what is to be done is to take on the responsibilities that they did not want to take on. It is obvious that Mr. Fernández Diaz spoke to the director of the Anti-Fraud Office. And, in addition, I will say more: I am also ashamed that this Parliament gave the confidence to Mr De Alfonso; I am absolutely ashamed, because it seems to me that even I voted for it. But before that – before that – what must surely be done is to take on, I insist, the responsibilities, and then not to use certain information against the other political forces, because to criticize one must certainly have a clear curriculum of these issues. There were other aspects to this committee: that there are certain political parties which have not come to the committee and which, moreover, have more, say, that they have all the right, but, go on, the credibility of an opinion made by a political party which has not attended the committees. [[relays]] It's flying pigeons and explaining stories, obviously, that they have to explain and talk about other commissions that haven't been set up and haven't been developed. Because about this in concrete they can say a few things, very few, because they have people close to you who have a direct participation. And this is either assumed or annoyed, and what has happened is that political forces have not wanted to attend this commission. A few games, plus, supporting when we were talking about corruption... and this was directly linked to the intervention that Mr. Alonso made on giving support or not supporting certain political parties in the Spanish field. Look, you give support to the party that's given it the details of all the corruption cases in the Spanish State. And I'll say it more – I'll say it more – and you said – you said – that you would make clean, that you wouldn't allow any kind of corruption, that you would set up blunts. And, at this hour, and I say to you, the intervention of Mr Rajoy's other day at the Congress of Deputies, in which he spoke absolutely less of what he had to talk about..., and this you have also allowed from the Congress of Deputies. And I'll say more: they've also tried to boycott the commission, and that's it. And the one they couldn't boycott because they don't have the majority to do it is that of the Parliament of Catalonia, because they would have done it too. If you had a majority, this commission wouldn't have been set up, and that's it – that's it. And, therefore, what they demand is that they be aware of the gravity of these questions. I mean, is the brute war justifiable? Can they justify crimes committed in the police field in order to harm certain people? There has been talk of Mr Trias: Mr Trias is a victim of the brutal war of the Ministry of the Interior; that is indisputable. It's supposed to be solidarity, too. They recognize that this is not well done, that the police are doing things that are not good and can be denounced, from a criminal point of view, indisputably, above all in a state that is completely judicial, that is filing lawsuits for having approved laws and that will surely file lawsuits also for having given the citizen's voice. In this environment we have moved the last few years in this country, and I ask them to assume, of course, their responsibility, not so much from a personal point of view, because they will have to assume it – because, I insist, we will bring legal action – not only from a point of view of the prosecution's performance, but we will argue, if necessary. And, man, be respectful of parliamentarianism, too. They are very demanding with everyone: yesterday we passed twenty-four hours that if we reconsider it up, reconsider it down and are very strict with the Rules of Parliament. The Rules of Procedure of Parliament are also strict with other actions and actions by certain parliamentary groups that do not comply. If we have to complete the Rules of Parliament, we always comply; if we have to be demanding, we also have to comply always, and they are somehow responsible for their activity. Later on, people who did not want to come to the committee of inquiry have not done so basically because they did not want it and for another question that is harder, that is that they have a problem not to respond to the dignity of this Parliament. This Parliament will please them more or less, there will be a majority or another..., because some other day there will be another majority, which we hope will not follow, but there can be another majority, and I tell you, on the part of the people I represent, that we will respect the result, we will respect the majority, we will respect what the citizens of Catalonia have said. And, therefore, from this perspective, what we want to make them hear is that, democratically everything is perfectly possible, and that we will fight because the brutal war does not return to actively participating in the political life of this country. Mrs Boya referred to it: we have doubts about what she's been through the past few days in Ripoll – we have doubts about it. He'll be out by now – he'll be out by now. And this inn in doubt of the work of the Squadron Mosses will see how it ends, because we know how the Spanish State has acted so far in different questions. And we'll see, and we need time... there's been a rough war and what we thought was that it would be over, and we have the feeling that we're gonna have to fight a lot more because it's finally over. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.61.0	Thank you, Mr. Guinó. After the debate, we shall now proceed to the vote on the opinion of the Commission of Inquiry into Operation Catalonia. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Alonso, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.62.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.63.0	Okay. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.64.0	Well, first of all, respect the respect of the Rules, tell Mr. Guinó that I was surprised that I started as president in this debate and finished speaking; I thought it would be Mr. Roger, who would participate in it. But well, anyway, letting go of this, if we are talking about giving support to Mr Rajoy and the People's Party, historically who has given support to it is precisely Democratic Convergence, also in this Parliament. Citizens at this time don't give him support, he gave him support in an investiture with some concrete conditions. And respect what you say to allow rallies, the rallies there allowed another game, which has also been expressed here. Citizens have already been against this extraordinary Ple because where Mr. Rajoy has to go with a duty to tell the truth is to the Investigative Commission driven by Citizens to the Congress respect corruption. So, things, that were clear. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.65.0	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. We're calling it a vote. Mrs Vergés, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.66.0	In the first place, because I want to add something that seems very relevant to me today, which is to give thanks, apart from the Members and Members that we have worked on to the committee, which I have already said, to the parliamentary servants of this house for the great work they have done on this committee of inquiry, which has been complex, especially for the incomparencies that we may have had. And to add that this Parliament will defend before the state institutions for these same incomparencies. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.67.0	We shall proceed to the vote on the conclusions of the Opinion of the Commission of Inquiry into Operation Catalunya. The vote begins. The opinion of the Commission of Inquiry into Operation Catalunya was adopted by 82 votes to 11, with 41 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Changes to the agenda]] Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.68.0	President, I ask you for the word because, by virtue of Article 81.3, and also by virtue of the Law of the self-determination referendum approved yesterday, we want to change the agenda and propose a point to incorporate it. We want to incorporate, in concrete terms, the debate and final vote of the Transitional Law Proposal. I think it's important to explain why we're asking for this law now. It is a law that must serve us to ensure that, as long as he won't win the yes in the referendum, there will be a legal framework, that is, that there will be legal certainty. Because, if I win the no, it is very clear what will happen: that everything will remain the same; but if I win the yes, we have to make clear who will be this legal mark that will apply. This law, therefore, is to ensure that the reference is clearly linked, both for one result and for another, that the two results, the two options of the reference, compete in equal conditions. This read is that all supporters, yes and no, can make a campaign knowing what effects their option produces if it is the winning option, which they can know what effect their vote produces. A very important question: this is a law that will only come into force if the supporters of the yes win the referendum. That is to say, today we propose to process it and, if it goes out, to approve it, but it will not have any type of legal effect for now, as provided for by the same rule. And another important issue: the Transitional Law ensures that citizens do not only have the rights they currently have, but also include us, by directly transposing international regulations, such as the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights or the European Convention on Human Rights and its additional protocols. At the processing level, as yesterday the incorporation of a point in the order of the day generated a lot of initial confusion, we want to make it very clear. What we propose is the same thing that happened yesterday: directly go to the point of debate and final vote on the text of the law, so we ask for a vote also in the chamber, a _second vote for Rule 81.3, to exempt us from the scheduled procedures as provided for in this very article of the Rules. In this vote we also want me to make it very clear that we are asking for this legal processing without the request to report to the Council of State Guarantees because we consider that this law, the Law of Transition, clearly exceeds the statutory and constitutional framework. It's a known law, it's a law that's been published, it's a law that's been distributed to the spokesman, it's a law that we're also asking for to incorporate the passage of partial statements into the articulated text, it's a theme that we obviously want to debate and we want there to be a final vote, to approve it and to reject it. Therefore, we try to guarantee all the rights of parliamentary groups. [[Widow's remorse.]] Therefore, President, they ask for two votes – they ask for two votes –: to put the item on the agenda, debate and final vote of this law, and to agree by an absolute majority, if any, of this chamber, as the Rules say, to proceed to the final debate and vote of the text, guaranteeing it the publication, the papers, the debate and the final vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.69.0	Thank you, Mrs. Rovira. Mrs. Gabriel, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.70.0	Yeah, good morning. Also for a point of order: to ask the inclusion of a point on the order of the day on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Crida Constituent, by virtue also of Article 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure and, therefore, to request this first vote. And the second vote, also by virtue of the same article, except for the procedures provided for in ordinary circumstances, in ordinary proceedings, and, therefore, that are exactly the same as the ones that were exempted yesterday, as has now been mentioned by Juntes' spokesman for the Yes. And the law we refer to, of course, which I think I didn't say, is the legal and foundational transitory nature of the republic, as is obvious. We want to remember, because we put it to the plenary at its meeting – the Bureau too – that the parliamentary initiative that we use to include this item on the agenda must be taken up by the Bureau. This does not prevent the groups, the spokespersons who wish to do so, so they can try to strain the Bureau, but finally who is assuming this included in the order of the day we are the two parliamentary groups that we are setting up. And let's say that because I don't think anyone gets away with what context we're celebrating this plenary. We are celebrating it after, therefore, an opinion of the Council of State, which I assume you know the content of it; and also after a probable appearance of the Council of Ministers at this very moment, which I believe no one escapes, either, which will serve to announce that they will bring constitutional appeals to the law approved yesterday, of reference, and also to the decree of summons..., more than likely, secure automatic suspension by the Constitutional Court of the law and of the summons; this Constitutional Court, which itself, in a high degree of impartiality, has decided not to allow the refusal to proceed. And we have done so above all, also, aware of the context, of the warning that the Attorney General of the State has already made, precisely addressing or warning the members or, better said, certain members of the Bureau of Parliament, but also the members of the Government. On behalf of the CUP - Constituent Creed, and as usual, and as part of our political tradition: all the support, anim and all the determination to the people you will be assigned to the Attorney General of the State, the Government and the Bureau of Parliament. Also, we do not want to contribute to this repression: nor do we want to normalize it, nor do we want to trivialize it, much to the contrary. Yesterday, we told the government that the next steps that would be taken after the passing of the Referendum Law are certainly going to do with this political, judicial and repressive persecution. So, actually, he's already arrived. And we don't want to stop denouncing it, but we don't want to stop working for what we all have undertaken to do, which is to respect the majority will of this country to be able to decide, in the sense that it is. More compromises than ever, therefore, with the reference called; more compromises than ever with this treaty which does not go from law to law and in a peaceful or legal way, but from lawfulness to deliberate legitimacy. We know that freedom, justice and life at the end are won only if there is determination. Count on ours. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.71.0	I'm guessing that before this vote, you've filed a request for reconsideration, and so... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, a request for reconsideration of the admission to transit. And, therefore, we have to call Table and Board of Spokespersons, which I'm already calling you now, but I'm calling you to a four in the afternoon, huh? And we call on the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen to settle this review, and after we settle it, we will continue with the plenary session. Therefore, the plenary session is suspended until after the reconsideration has been resolved. And then, all the parliamentary groups, absolutely all of them, will be able to intervene, less those who have already intervened... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.72.0	Yes; on a point of order, Madam President. Well, we would ask you... Well, first of all, I don't know if we should rule on this right now because you say that there is a pending reconsideration, and we believe that, at that Bureau meeting, what the Bureau should agree is whether or not to include in the agenda a bill that clearly violates our legality and the rights of all Members here and of all Catalans. And it is the Bureau that should be responsible and agree on the necessary agreements...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.73.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.74.0	...if we don't want them to get...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.75.0	...if it seems to you, we suspend the session. He then made these considerations to the Board of Spokesmen, because the Bureau was not close to him entering the contents.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.76.0	That is why I ask you to convene a table precisely to decide whether or not to bring this to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.77.0	The Mesa is already...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.78.0	...because you have the obligation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.79.0	...the Bureau...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.80.0	The Bureau – if I may, Madam President – is mandated by the Constitutional Court to prevent any initiative that violates the ruling of the Constitutional Court. And as you are commanded, when you hear what this lady has said [[Funnel veils]] It is not for them to decide on the reconsideration – this honourable Member, of course, and with all due respect – that it is for them, in view of the request, that you gather the Bureau and say to them: "Boys, we have been requested by the Constitutional Court...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.81.0	Thank you for explaining to me what the Bureau has to do. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] Mr Carrizosa, thank you very much for explaining to me what the Bureau has to do: the Bureau has to resolve the review. [[Greetings and strong remorse.]] And they suspect the session later... [[You've got a lot of eyes on the president.]] All right, all right. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] It's part of the session. Don't you want to suspend the session? [[Pause.]] So, it's part of the session. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.82.0	Ma'am...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.83.0	Mrs. Granados, you have the word. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.84.0	Madam President, I would like you to try to calm us down a little. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.85.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.86.0	At his capacity...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.87.0	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.88.0	...of innovation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.89.0	Yeah, I'm good to say it – I'm good to say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.90.0	Yes, Madam President. Because in theory we are in an ordinary plethora, the Board of Spokesmen decided what was the order of the day, and we have the majority that is twisting this Plethora. [[Greetings.]] And let's make it clear, because in the end it looks like we're making... Then we have the address of this Ple in his figure, which I also ask him to respect the Rules, because when they make slogans he is not a political rallyer, which is what we have witnessed at these times. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.91.0	But...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.92.0	Third place...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.93.0	...Mr. Granados, don't pateixin, who here in this Parliament, everyone can speak, absolutely everyone. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.94.0	And so, yes, we see it – we see it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.95.0	And you'll have the same time, just like you did yesterday...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.96.0	President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.97.0	...to speak, the same time, he will.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.98.0	My president today...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.99.0	All groups will have the same time, so I know it doesn't have to change.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.100.0	I had raised the session when we asked for the word, and my president had to start screaming to resume the session. So I, please, ask her to respect me. We already know that they will pass over our rights – we already know that. But at least every time we ask for the word and every time we ask for it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.101.0	Every time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.102.0	...legal reports, please, make a few cases of opposition groups. I take advantage that I have the word, too, to ask again. I know you don't say words. [[remorse of the voice]] , which does not give, at all, the word when asked by the major reader to meetings of the Board of Spokesmen. [[Greetings.]] But I, please, ask them... [[Pause.]] ask, please, that this time we do have a legal report on the constitutional and statutory adequacy of the text that has been admitted to the proceedings. My group asked for the reconsideration. So now it's not up to you to do the debate that you were trying to initiate the two most important spokespersons. We ask for a meeting of the Bureau and that this review be made. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.103.0	Mrs. Granados, I've already summoned you, the Bureau, huh? Perhaps I did not explain myself well, but I seem to have called the Bureau and said that we could not do this vote because we had to resolve the review. And I suspended the session and said, "Up to the end of the review. But... [[Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.104.0	Yes; two things, telegraphically. The first: deeply regret that, in a new attempt to violate the rights of the democratic opposition, the President of the Generalitat, Mr Puigdemont, and the Vice-President, Mr Junqueras, are absent – we do not know whether to eat or whatever, to dedicate it to their things – instead of being here giving face. And second question: indeed you and the Bureau have been warned through rulings, rulings and orders of the Constitutional Court. And not only that, which comes, as you would say, from Madrid; you also have the warning of the lawyers of this house and an opinion of the Council of Guarantees Statutàries. We would like to ask you, in addition to allowing us to speak when it is appropriate, to think about and reflect on it, because you and the Bureau will be responsible if you alter the agenda again following the request of the Junts pel Yes Group. Think about it, about the dignity of this institution, about the dignity of the Generalitat de Catalunya and the profound damage they are doing to the institutions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.105.0	The session is suspected until after the review, that we will do it at a quarter of four. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.106.0	It's part of the session. Very late in the day, all of them. Before we proceed to the vote on the amendment of the agenda, we will give the word to the parliamentary groups. In the first place, we will give it to Mr. Fernández, who I see is already prepared. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.107.0	I'm glad you're so funny, not like this morning, but, well. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. He's always fine, that's why the dinar was fine. Simply to convey that our parliamentary group has now filed a motion for reconsideration and, consequently, we also ask for the meeting of the Bureau and the corresponding Board of Spokespersons – surprise, I imagine... – and therefore proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.108.0	Secretary, are we aware of this request for reconsideration? [[Rialles.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] So, you know: Table, Spokesman's Board, Table.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.109.0	It's part of the session. Before we proceed to the vote on the alteration of the agenda, we will give the word to all parliamentary groups. Do any groups want to ask for the word? [[Pause.]] Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.110.0	Yes, to announce that we have requested a reconsideration for admission through breaking or calling law by another name for you. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.111.0	Yeah, yeah, so... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, well... [[Widow's remorse.]] Come on, come on... let's go call table and doorman's meeting. Looks like we'll be able to do it later, 'cause it's the only one that's missing, huh? So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.112.0	It's part of the session. Before we proceed to the vote on the alteration of the agenda, we will give the word to all parliamentary groups. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa. [[Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]] I gave the word to Mr. Carrizosa; then I will give it to you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.113.0	Yeah. First, Madam President, on a point of order. Today we also received a second letter from the Council of State Guarantees, which was received yesterday, but still today, if it is possible, even more precise with regard to the respect due to the possibility, to the right of parliamentarians to request an opinion from the Council of State Guarantees. The first thing I would like to do is thank the Council for Guarantees Statutàries for its militant democracy, its rapid intervention to prevent the violation of the right of parliamentarians who want to go to a statutory body. And, said this, said this thanks, even to those courageous advisers of the Council for Statutory Guarantees, appointed by the Government, who are contradicting the government's strategy. [[applause]] , three people who will not be appointed again by a government of Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras, because they are saying that the rights of parliamentarians are respected – frankly, I like that a statutory body is working – and now what I would like, so that it does not remain in empty and partial words of a parliamentary spokesman, I would like the Bureau to read point b of the resolution that has come to Parliament today and that you..., and that works in your power. If it's possible, they'll read it, if not, I'll have it here and I'll read it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.114.0	No, no, don't call...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.115.0	... because it's three lines.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.116.0	...you don't have to read it, because it's a request that's been made at the table, too, huh? That's what I'm saying. I, therefore, understand that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.117.0	So, before...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.118.0	Therefore, the Bureau was asked to give an opinion, the request was resolved, the reconsideration was resolved. And, besides, I want to say that what has been rejected is not an opinion, it is an agreement of the whole, and that the Council of State Guarantees does not have powers to issue resolutions that may bind the plenary and that, according to the Law of the Council of State Guarantees, its functions are circumscribed to the elaboration of decisions that cannot express criteria of opportunity or convenience.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.119.0	I am not going to discuss the arguments you make, but what I am saying is if there is any problem in which all Catalans and members of this chamber read what you say, hear what the Board of Guarantees says, which is summed up in the following: « L'esmentada facultat – that of being able to be the subject of a request from... [[Widow's remorse.]] Well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.120.0	No, no...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.121.0	...it seems that some of them put...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.122.0	Let's see, let's see...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.123.0	What are they afraid of? – What are they afraid of? [[Widow's remorse.]] What are they afraid of?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.124.0	All right, Mr. Carrizosa, read...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.125.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.126.0	... I just read, and we'll give the word to Mr. Fernández...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.127.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.128.0	...but I've already challenged him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.129.0	Point b...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.130.0	I just read it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.131.0	...of the unanimous agreement adopted by the Council of State Guarantees today, point b of its agreement: "All the proposals of the law, without exception, in the process of being carried out in the Parliament of Catalonia, and before they are finally approved, must be subject to the request for an opinion before this Council, at its preceptive character, if the legitimate subjects so request. And now, Mrs Rovira and the President: "The elected faculty is a right of parliamentarians to guarantee the status and legislation that develops it, and cannot be limited by the decision of a parliamentary body. [[Greetings.]] It cannot be – it cannot be – limited by the decision of a parliamentary organ, it cannot be limited by this plenary, it cannot be limited by the president, it cannot be limited by the Bureau, because they are parliamentary organs, and the State Guarantee Board says so. If you don't want to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.132.0	The Board of State Guarantees, Mr. Carrizosa, has no powers to dictate resolutions that may force the Ple. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.133.0	No, but the Board of State Guarantees is telling you that what they're doing here is illegal, and the evil Constitutional Court has not told you..., and the prosecution and Rajoy's government do not say it : our Board of State Guarantees says it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.134.0	All right, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.135.0	...that now it does look like ours, that now it does look like everyone's.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.136.0	Mr. Carrizosa, it's been made clear to us; thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.137.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.138.0	I have the word Mr. Fernández. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.139.0	Madam President, I say one thing. If Mrs Rovira asks that the procedure of the Council of State Guarantees and the Council of State Guarantees be abolished, she says that this cannot be done by any body in full, then I wonder whether they are going to be run over in front of all Spain and all Catalonia and all the public here and all the Members, whether our rights are going to be run over. But, look, as we all actually see that all the fish is sold, Mrs. Rovira has already recognized that she does not want to, in her exhibition she said that she does not want this supreme law to go to the Board of Guarantees Statutàries, because she already knows that it is not in accordance with the Constitution... But above all it does not go to the Board of Guarantees Statutàries, because they do not arrive on October 1, which is the date on which Mr. Puigdemont and Mr. Junqueras [[applause]] They want to hold that referendum that..., with a law that they passed yesterday, and seven gentlemen that they passed yesterday, at night, that will watch the referendum go out as you say it has to go out. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All members of Esquerra Republicana. And with that Law of the referendum that was obtained overrunning the rights of all Catalans and of these deputies, with that Law of referendum and with that Electoral Union, that you, all the syndicates, at seven, at twelve and fourth of the night, you alone, those of Junts pel Yes and the CUP, let those seven gentlemen watch the cleansing to come out what you want to come out and then have that supreme law, that would come into force without anyone else having participated in its drafting more than you, who took it out of a drawer forty_and_eight_hours ago and have taught us now for the first time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.140.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.141.0	...well, then...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.142.0	...has already put forward his arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.143.0	Yes, I know that... Well, then I ask you: are we going to be able to go to the Board of Statutory Guarantees to dictate, as they say, our laws? Or have we already abolished Catalan laws at this time, before the supreme law enters? [[Greetings.]] Before the supreme law works, we've already...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.144.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.145.0	...absolved our laws? Have you abolished our laws, Mr. Puigdemont? Have our laws already been abolished? I want to know. Should I obey the lady who disobeys Catalan laws as well? [[Greetings.]] Do I owe you obedience? Should I shut up when she makes me shut up? Should I speak when she allows me to? Should I do this?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.146.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.147.0	Madam..., Madam President, you do not obey the laws. We respect the institution of Parliament, we respect it too much to reduce it to the point that I do not obey the instructions that you as an institution give me for the time being, as long as you are President of this Parliament. But I ask you to do the same and to respect our rights, as we respect the institution.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.148.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you've already made the intervention. [[Greetings.]] Mr. Carrizosa, you've already spoken before the vote. Thank you. Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.149.0	Yes; inform you, President, that we have submitted a request for reconsideration of the non-admission to proceed with our request for an opinion to the Conseil de Garanties Statutàries and, accordingly, we call for the immediate convening of a panel of spokespersons and table. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Do not protest, that if necessary we will be here debating today to defend freedom until hell freezes, let them be clear. Until hell freezes! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.150.0	Yes, Mr. Fernández, I'll call immediately... there's another word asked for...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.151.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.152.0	...I will immediately convene the Bureau and the Board of Portaveus. But Mr. Carrizosa has already made his speech before the vote, because everyone... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, and so much so—and so much so, and so much so. And while you have, because the other spokespersons have not spoken, you have already spoken. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You've already spoken, Mr. Carrizosa. [[Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]] Mrs. Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.153.0	For a point of order, and also for clear direct allusions in all the intervention made by Mr Carrizosa. I do not know whether this is the intervention we have before the vote or not; I would also ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.154.0	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.155.0	Yeah? I'm accumulating everything here; do we agree?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.156.0	You and Mr. Carrizosa have already spoken; Mr. Pedret will be missing, Mr. Fernández will be missing and Mr. Coscubiela will be missing. So if you want to talk now, speak, Mrs. Rovira, but... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And the CUP, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.157.0	It seems to them that I take the word and also have the opportunity to give my arguments, yes? [[Pause.]] Yeah? So, come on, som-hi. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you. Here we are to expose..., because we have to consider that we have to proceed to the vote that we have asked for, I don't know how many hours ago, this morning, respect the application of Article 81.3, because we can proceed with this Transitional Law Proposal. We've done many hours of doorman's meeting and table meeting, with many reviews, with all the patience that we need, because they have all the right of the world, I'd just miss it – I'd just miss it. That's why we're here. I would like to say that, as some of the arguments that have been objected to by these debates on the Board of Spokesmen have been put forward, and that in any case we did not even object to these debates on the Board of Spokesmen, we dared to expose them in this House, because we considered that the place to present the arguments for these reviews was the meetings of the Spokesmen... Here is a brutal confusion: the meetings of the Spokesmen are political debates that are not made here, and here are technical arguments to avoid the political debates that should be made here. But, well... I'd like it now, and I know it's hard if I get bored... I guess I didn't get the word yesterday to clarify these technical arguments; I'll do it today, and I'll know it's hard, because it's a technical theme and a little complicated. The opposition groups ask that, in order not to admit to delay this proposal for law, a doctrine be applied which consists of the Bureau of Parliament having a political function on the content of this initiative. And then they tell the Bureau that, as they consider this initiative to be highly unconstitutional and that we do not have the legitimacy to debate it, that I do not admit it for the background, for the political content. We, before this doctrine, say that we obviously cannot apply this doctrine, because if we apply this doctrine we are able to provoke from the political initiative of the groups and the deputies the political debates on the near side, which is in this room. Therefore, we have asked the Bureau of Parliament, quite simply, all the members of the Bureau, who accept this proposal from the law, like all the other things that we are presenting, that accept it in agreement with what is to be done, as stated in Rule 37 of the Rules, which is a qualification on the procedure. Is that to say, the law's proposal gathers what it has to gather to be presented as the law's proposal? Did her proposal get into the register how she was to present herself? Yeah? So, simply what the Bureau has to do is admit it to transit and publish it, which is what the Rules say. If we make a political function for the Bureau of Parliament, that is to value the political content of this bill and, on the basis of this political content, say that I do not admit it to be dealt with and that there is no debate here, the Bureau is doing a political function and usurping the functions that we parliamentarians have as political representatives of the citizens who have elected us democratically. [[Greetings.]] This doctrine, which I do not invent, I would not have been able to invent - it is gathered into very many sensations, from these sensations that please them so much and that so much doctrine permeates, of the Constitutional Court. It is a doctrine based on an article of the Spanish Constitution – which at the moment is the constitution of all: of you, who call it much, but ours too. [[remorse of the voice]] – which is the article [[applause]] ..., which is article 23 – 23. Article 23 says that political representatives freely chosen can provoke or promote those debates that we consider appropriate and for that reason why we have been elected. And we were chosen and elected with an election program that said that in this legislature we would exercise the right to self-determination, and that's what we're doing. And we don't want political vetoes from the Bureau of Parliament to do our job, for which we went out democratically chosen. It also goes to say..., because then they will go out and begin to explain that this doctrine of the Constitutional Court has changed and that now the Constitutional Court has changed its mind. And it is true that the Constitutional Court has made some sentences, the last ones, which mainly affect this Parliament and the sovereign political majority in favour of the right to decide after the last parliamentary term in this Parliament, in which it says: "Well, now, as there is a sovereign majority in the Parliament of Catalonia – and even in this legislature, an independent majority in this Parliament –, "I will change my mind and force – as they say the warnings coming from the Constitutional Court – "the Bureau of Parliament to do politics and to ignore what does not allow us to bring here, in this House, wherever it is close, to debate politically. So, we've been... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let me speak, how have you spoken? [[Pause.]] Okay, thank you – thank you. I'm done – I'm done. We have asked the Bureau of this Parliament that I accept to forward the proposal of the law, that the publication and now we are asking you to agree with another article of the Rules, which is Article 81.3. Certainly, an article, this article of the Rules, what do you say... – I'm sorry, huh? , Bureau and President – that neither the President nor the Bureau of Parliament have the power to decide whether Rule 81.3 applies; it turns out that it has the power to vote in this Chamber. Therefore, what we are asking is that we vote if the Members and Members of this House consider it opportune that we make this political debate. And that's what we want to do, we want to vote today, as we said before with Albert, we want to vote yesterday and we want to vote October 1, man. Therefore, we want to vote, in accordance with Article 81.3, that we include in the order of the day of this plenary session the debate and final vote of the Transitional Law. Certainly, Article 81.3, that journalists who accompany us can also make a search for the Chamber, that they have exercised all the parliamentary groups of this chamber and that they have demanded that publications be exempt from all, that for us it is a fundamental process. The publication, the papers, the debate and the vote are fundamental aspects, basic pillars of any handling of Parliament. But it turns out that in this House we have even exempted the publication of a young man who came in for 81.3. [[Funnel veils]] Well, so, how does it fit into 81.3? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, really, huh? ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.158.0	Quiet, and please. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.159.0	With respect to the Board of Guarantees Statutes. It's hard for me to know that... it's hard for me to know that the State Guarantee Board is being used and that it's political in this way. [[Widow's remorse.]] First of all – first of all – the council... This, if any city of Catalonia can hear me, I'd like you to get the message. The Board of State Guarantees has not issued an opinion, has issued a written opinion, an agreement that they were gathered in a ple; it is legitimate, perfect, the entomem and the decision. The writing says that the requests made by the parliamentary groups of this chamber, the PSC, the Citizens and the PP, these requests from each of their groups, the Council of Statutory Guarantees says that they are not correct, [[remorse of the voice]] That's what the same Board of State Guarantees says. Because the law, the Law of the Board of State Guarantees, says that the groups of the chamber cannot go directly to the Board of State Guarantees, but it is the Bureau of Parliament that has to decide whether to ask for an opinion or not to ask for an opinion. [[Widow's remorse.]] Oh, of course...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.160.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.161.0	It turns out – it turns out – that the Bureau of Parliament has a democratic and political majority that they do not like the decision they make. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] What do they do? What do they do? Because the citizens of Catalonia understand, they go to the State Guarantee Board for the back door, press them to issue a letter [[remorse of the voice]] of a law – of a law – that we have not yet incorporated into a debate and vote, ask him to write a letter of a law that we still do not know if we can debate or vote and ask him for a procedure that is not correct, and I will no longer say that it is illegal because I am not aware of it. The letter that we have rejected from the Council of State Guarantees says, certainly, as Mr Carrizosa read, says the same as the law says, that the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees is preceptive. But the same writing says that it is mandatory, as are the other regulatory procedures that consist of the Rules of Parliament. But as long as..., and this gave the writing of yesterday perfectly, we had exempted, according to Rule 81.3, these regulatory procedures, what the Council of State Guarantees had to do is to be for what this House had decided. Why? Because the Board of Statutory Guarantees cannot decide what we decide in a Ple, it cannot impose what has decided in a Ple. It's obvious, and consider the opposite. [[remorse of the voice]] – to consider the contrary – is to consider the Council of Statutory Guarantees over the Ple of Parliament, when more than one parliamentary group has gone through the back door. What democracy are we talking about? What democracy are we talking about? [[Greetings.]] In this sense, and I finish on this point – I finish on this point – of the President's Board of State Guarantees. President and Bureau, we would ask you not to comply with this new petition from the Council for Statutory Guarantees, which the representative of the People's Party has explained to us because it simply does not take place. Then... [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm done – I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.162.0	I should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.163.0	Yeah, I'm done, but it's just, president... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Ask for a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.164.0	Orderly question. Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.165.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.166.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.167.0	Clearly, I'm asking the same questions as I was yesterday. I mean, I don't think we've only seen two days of brutal filibusterism. [[remorse of the voice]] , using the mechanism, to which you have right, to review it in an abusive way, trying to obstruct the debate in the plenary, because this has happened – this has happened. But do you know what's going on?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.168.0	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.169.0	Do you know what's going on? That we didn't just suffer today and yesterday, and that the citizens will be very conscious; they are hours of reconsideration, suspensions of the plenary, what's going on, and how it is. It didn't just happen yesterday and today, that, but two years ago we kicked it, because this law, which we propose today to incorporate into the debate and vote, we tried to approve it through a joint debate. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm done. One minute, President, and I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.170.0	Ahabi – Ahabi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.171.0	Yeah... [[Widow's remorse.]] Home...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.172.0	Please – please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.173.0	I'm on my way. [[Pause.]] Miri, the president... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.174.0	Please. Mr. Carrizosa has spoken all the way around, because I told him... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please – please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.175.0	Miri, president... president, with... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.176.0	Let her finish.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.177.0	President, as it seemed to me that this would happen, that these are constant interruptions – constant – I made the group, the parliamentary group look at us, that we have a person, that we calculated the time we talked about yesterday during the whole process, okay? It turns out that Ciutadans spoke forty-five minutes, the PP thirty-eight minutes, Catalonia Yes it is thirty-eight minutes, the PSC thirty-four minutes, Together for the Yes twenty-i-sis and the CUP dinosaur. So, I'm not saying again that we haven't let them talk, please, I'm not saying again. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.178.0	Thank you, Mrs. Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.179.0	I'm done with the surgery. If we have put doses of patience in all of this – doses of patience – it is because we do it to defend the right to vote of all and every citizen of Catalonia, and in this, despite what you are doing is obstructing this plenary and the political debate, in this we will continue to put doses of patience and everything you need to defend democracy in this country as has always been done. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.180.0	Mr. Pedret, do you want to make your speech before the vote now or do you want to make it later?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.181.0	Madam President, I am asking you for the word, which I have not yet commented on, for a call to comply with the Rules of Procedure as provided for in Article 88 of the Rules of Procedure, in relation to Article 81.3, and I am surprised that our group considers that, according to the Rules of Procedure, these interventions to comply with the Rules of Procedure cannot be counted as an intervention on a position, whether or not a point should be introduced on the order of the day. And as long as there have been interventions of such length, I ask you to be able to do the intervention from the Faristol. All right, thank you, President. President, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, as I have commented, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, ask the Bureau to observe the Rules and in concrete terms what is provided for in Rule 81.3 of the Rules, which has been misled by some of the previous spokespersons, and certainly feeling how it was explained and what it was, we fully understand that it is not particularly convenient for them to enter into the debate on the procedures, the forms, the guarantees, not only because they intend to skip them altogether, but also because, when they talk about them, they are doing an embolism that they do not have, eh? [[Voice remorse and applause.]] In the second term, we have stated on more than one occasion that Article 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia does not fall within the section of the Rules which speaks about the specialties of the legislative process, which is, for example, the one-time reading process and, therefore, cannot be interpreted as meaning that Article 81.3 can lead to a final vote on the text, but only to a debate on the whole. And even less can be deduced from what Article 81.3 of the Rules says that it is possible to dispense with absolutely all parliamentary procedures and less still... because, look, Mrs Rovira said: "Clearly, all procedures are mandatory in the ordinary processing of a law. Indeed, they are all binding, but there are a few that the Council of State Guarantees in its Opinion 7/2007 says that they are inexcusable, that no one can jump, and if you remain in doubt, they have come to say, both yesterday and today, with an agreement of their plenary, but they have turned freely, not pressed for anyone, they have purposed freely to address this Parliament in order to remind them that all the proposals for law without exception, in the process of being dealt with in the Parliament of Catalonia and before being finally approved, must be subject to the request for an opinion before this Council, at its preceptive character, if they seek to read them. Legitimate subjects are parliamentary groups and Members and Members. And the extra faculty constitutes a right of parliamentarians guarantees for the State and the legislation that the development, cannot be limited by the decision of a parliamentary organ, which includes the plenary. On the assumption that it is impossible to exercise it, the decision taken is likely to be subject to constitutional redress, which we will obviously do every time we believe that the rights of Members and Members of Parliament are at stake, the rights of Members of Parliament and, therefore, through them, the rights of citizens and citizens to whom we represent. [[Greetings.]] Because, look, we have also tried to explain it on some occasion: in democracy the majority principle is absolutely transcendent, absolutely fundamental and we fully understand that you have the majority parliament. But this does not authorize them to pass as a Panzer division over texts of the Statute and Constitution Rules. [[Greetings.]] He does not authorize them to overthrow us directly, because you, the majority of the Members of Parliament, should agree with us that in a democracy it is possible, and even often, the change in the status of the majority in a minority situation. It is purely conjunctural that you have the majority and, therefore, the guarantees of the procedure are not guarantees only respect to the parliamentary minorities of today, they are guarantees respect to everyone, to all and every citizen who is represented in this Parliament, to all and every Member who sits on these seats. And what they claimed so much today as they claim today, that with a full majority agreement, I ceased to apply what is a right that is guaranteed by the Law of the Council of State Guarantees, that it is not a law of any kind, that it is a law of basic development of the State, that it is a law that regulates how an organ is to function, that it is the organ that ages for constitutionality and the statehood of the standards that arise from this Parliament. It is perfectly in force, and it takes us on our right, and we also have perfect grasp of this right to seek advice from the Board of State Guarantees with the Statute of Independence of Catalonia, which was very difficult to conquer, and which you are climbing – which you are climbing. [[Greetings and remorse.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, you're shoving it up with a little bit that they're all legit to complain about respect for things that you can. [[remorse of the voice]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.182.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.183.0	...contain. Therefore, let us reiterate our request that the Bureau, and in concrete terms the President, seize the rights of the Members and the Members in this Parliament, that the rights of the Members and Members of the Opposition be seized, that the rights of the Citizens and Citizens of Catalonia be seized, that are represented in this Parliament through them. Let us give it, moreover, Madam President – because someone is complaining about the debates that are taking place on the Board of Spokespersons and that they are not here – that ours, which is a political force which, at the length of all these months, which, at the length of all these years of proceedings, has sought to express itself with great respect for the political positions of the contrary, of the political opponents, which has also sought to express itself with great personal respect to each of the people with whom we disagree in this Parliament, and which is not found only in the majority of Parliament, but also among the dissents of the opposition..., we gave it with all condensation that what we understand is happening in this House is a concerted action between the majority of Parliament's opposition. And don't think about giving it up, don't think about stopping by. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.184.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Mr Coscubiela, if you want to speak now, before the vote, you will do so now, because after making this review that the People's Party has asked us to vote on, because it is already the last one in the absence of the statutory guarantee opinion. So, I'm telling you, if you want to do it now, you won't do it later.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.185.0	I think there's a so-called Castilian saying no food for eating, there's nothing lost. Okay. We are ahead of a frankly dramatic situation in democratic terms. And I have to start with those terms. Yesterday you could have a certain political excuse. They needed to stage a relationship with which they had agreed with the citizenry that, yes or yes, on the 6th, the Law of the Referendum was approved, even though it was passed over the rights of parliamentarians, which, therefore, means the rights of the citizens of Catalonia. They could even have this excuse for the political relationship. But today doesn't even have any leftovers. And I don't know if there's any evidence that you're taking your liking, climbing the parliamentary rights of the groups in this chamber and the city council. For the third time in two days together for the Yes and the UPC argue that, with the alibi of the alteration of the order of the day, the debate, now, of a law of the transcendence of the Law of legal and founding transitionality of the republic is incorporated. And on top of that they have the bad taste, the joke, of telling the groups in the chamber that we don't share this bust, that we don't share this way of climbing the rights that you're making..., they say we're making filibusterism. And they tell us, at the very least, to parliamentary groups that we have chosen to behave cautiously at the time of reconsideration – even so, I think we have presented only one, that in the end we did not need – but that we are prepared to break our faces – forgive us – in democratic terms, because the other groups can do it. Because when the rights of any city and of any group are being raised, the rights of all the citizens of the people of Catalonia are being raised. [[Greetings.]] Don't they, of the gravity... don't they, of the gravity of what you're doing here? It's very hard! And one day they can try to do it because they need it for their report, but two days in a row, more with a law of legal transition that turns out that you already announce that it will not come into force until after the reference, it is already that it is to take-like anti-democracy, and authoritarianism, and to do things over people's rights. What's happened here today, what's happening here is very difficult. Fix 'you well: they don't want to listen to anything. Did you look at the reaction that you had when a Member of the House asked for the reading – did he ask the President, do you have a right to do so – what the agreement of the Council of State Guarantees says? They got nervous. "No, no, no; we don't want to listen to him. And when this deputy read it, they tried to cover their mouths. And that's what you're doing all this time. [[Greetings.]] Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, I told you... CUP companies, I told you yesterday and I can say it now – and you can tweet Catalonia –: whenever it's about defending democracy, I won't have a problem sharing applause and positions with anyone else. [[applause]] To defend you, to defend you, to defend you, or to defend who you are. Yes! I'm telling you. Anything, yeah. I have the honour personally – I have the honour personally – of having been four years fighting the Congress of Deputies defending your rights and defending the rights of citizens represented here. I have this honor. And from this authority, from this authority that you give me, you won't shut me up. Because I'm here – because I'm here – because my parents taught me how to fight for my rights. I am here because thanks to my peers today we can enjoy freedom. And I don't want my son Daniel living in a country where most people can cover up the rights of those who don't think like her. I'm not available. [[Strong applause.]] Yeah, yeah, you can... [[Applauds and crits of 'Democracy, democracy.]] You know why I don't mind that? For one thing some of you will not hear: because we fought during the dictatorship we did so with people of radically different ideologies in defense of democracy. And, no doubt, this moment has nothing to do with that, but there is one thing in common, which is the defense of the rights. Look what's going on here. It's just that it's not just a defense of our arguments, it's that you're being told by the State Guarantee Board, it's telling you that you're climbing the rights of the city, you're being told by the Legal Servants. And what's going on here today is very, very hard. I'm sorry, Mr. President; from the personal respect you deserve, I don't know if you're aware today of the barbarity you've just committed. When his spokesman, Junts' spokesman for the Yes, was saying that the agreement of the Council of State Guarantees is as a consequence that some people, by the back door, had gone to influence and had provoked these two agreements, you, the vice president and all the government, like some hooligans of any kind, came to applaud. You think the President of the Government of the Generality, you think... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, you've seen it all. You believe that the President of the Government of the Generality can reach the level of degradation of Catalan institutions as to applaud... [[Funnel veils]] , applaud, yes, applaud when it is said that the State Guarantee Board is acting because someone is going through the back door? You've lost... you've lost your sense. You, today, with this behavior..., you, today, with this behavior, have converted..., with an act absolutely unworthy of the cargo you wear. You are not a hooligan of any kind, you are the President of the Generality, who has the obligation to respect our institutions while they exist. And I'll say it, yes, because it's a very difficult situation that's going on right now, it's a very difficult situation. Because, before a reality like this, you try not to act with our rights. Fix what's happening to you at these times. Mrs. Rovira, we don't have a problem debating the Law of Transition, we'll discuss it... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, we don't have a problem. The one... we want to discuss with respect for our rights. And we want the procedure to be respected. In democracy – in democracy – until and until media are not different things; remember Norberto Bobbio, if they don't believe us: media condition the ends. Legitimate means can come to convert..., totally illegitimate means can come to convert legitimate things into absolutely degrading things. And that's what's going on right now. It is not true that we do not want to discuss this; we are asking you only to respect the laws, to respect our rights. The Board of State Guarantees is giving this to you. It's very hard what you're doing. And besides, it's not necessary for you to do so, because today you don't have to approve this law; strictly, just because you want to maintain a political relationship, which is legitimate, but what's not legitimate is that to keep your political relationship stifling the rights of Catalonia's citizens. It is not – it is not –; it is not possible. The cunning has a limit. And, among other things, cunning has the limit of respect for rights. One question: who do you think...? I ask you a question: who do you think would be an authorized voice because you do it in relation to what things can be done or not? Says you who... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Parliament? Mr. President of the Generality – Mr. President of the Generality. Look, I'm sorry, we're getting into a very difficult situation. If a person has to explain to the President of the Generality of Catalonia that the majority of a parliament cannot approve the laws that trample the rights of the citizens recognized in the Constitution, if one has to explain to the President of the Parliament of Catalonia that he cannot ask the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia, if one has to explain to the President of the Generality of Catalonia, he means that the least is already the referendum, he means that the least is the Law of Legal Transition. [[applause]] I mean, we're ahead of a very, very hard problem. Mr. President, what did you hear, what did you hear, what did you hear, what did you hear, what did you really hear, that all of you approve of this law? I've been trying all the time... – and those who've been to the Spokesman's Board and the Bureau know it – I've been trying all the time to make them see that you were coming to the untenable limit of what it was to climb your rights. Is it really necessary to get here? You don't even need it for your political relationship. I... we, our group, are in favour of the referendum and we defended it – we defended it – even when you abandoned it for a year for partisan interests. We believe that the political system of this country, the social, territorial, political pact of the Constitution is exhausted, and that it can be renewed, and that it can be done; we believe that it is absolutely legitimate that everyone can raise the objective of the Catalan Republic, which we do not believe, that this can be done in this way. Do you know what's going on? Do you know why your plans are not credible? Because someone who really considers an important thing, someone who really can estimate the reference, the process constitute or the process of creation of the Catalan Republic, does not sotmetry, indeed, to this political instrumentization. You know... no, you know perfectly well that at these times important objects are being carried, and that's why some of us are suffering so much, much more, possibly, than others are suffering more. Because you know that at these times you are delegitimizing objectives that are absolutely legitimate; the same way that today I have no problem in applauding certain people with whom I have a great ideological discrepancy and who are voting with you constantly the fiscal policies of this country, the saying that I am willing to break my face because you can exercise your right to independence from Catalonia, but not if you do so by climbing the rights of the rest of the city. I don't know how they can hear it. It's so hard, it's so hard for you to understand that in democracy most people can't do it all? I told your wallet today, Marta Rovira, something I don't think you've just heard. And I want to share it with you in a plethora. Set 'ends on top of his argument that the majority can do it all without limits and that neither the Bureau, nor the letters, nor even the Council of State Guarantees can prevent you from approving the law. Imagine that someone in this chamber, who has enough, thinks that it is good for security policies to reimpose the death penalty in Catalonia. So, well... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah, I hear you sound like a barbarity to them? - Do you hear you sound like a barbarity? To me, an immense barbarity. But, according to you, with this argument that the majority of Parliament has no more limit than its will, which could prevent you from discussing this law? None. It's the reduction to absurdity. [[Greetings.]] No, why? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, all right, Mr. President. I'll take it. It is not the same, sense of doubt, the death penalty, of course not; it is not the same death penalty as the rights of parliamentarians, of course not, are completely different levels from the point of view of human rights. But who establishes this raking of the rights that can be raised and the rights that aren't? Don't you see that? Don't you see everyone's telling you? You are told by the Board of State Guarantees, you are told by the Legal Servants, you are told by the sensible independents, you are told by the entire legal and political community of this country, that you cannot continue on this path. As a matter of fact, you should have thought again... yesterday you had to do something, and I can hear it. But did you really think you were gonna get here? Look, as some of us have the opportunity... that we're talking to everyone, I can tell you that you don't even think that what you're doing has meaning. A lot of you know that. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes; forgive me, but it's that people sometimes have confidences and even all the members of the government have moments of weakness... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes; because they are human people, obviously. You know that the one you're looking for didn't miss it. Besides, some of them – certainly, I don't want to look at anything so as not to compromise anyone – he said. There is no need to approve the Transitional Law before the referendum. But it's that you know that this is being done for something that has nothing to do with Catalonia's interests, not even with the interests of the reference; you don't have it. Why are we being subjected to this situation? Why? Tell me 'ho. Why? Tell me, why? What's wrong with you? You only get it in the best of cases, when we're in charge – which I hope is soon, if it's not October 1st, October 2nd – the situation that is being created today, the scourge that this will leave to the citizenry of Catalonia, the scourge that this will leave to Parliament, the scourge that will leave to Catalan democracy, can become an irreversible scourge in terms of negation. It's not all right, President, it's not all right. You have the greatest responsibility, and I'll just say it because I think we've established a personal relationship. You think a little: you, the vice president and the government, applauded when your spokesman was saying that this happens because the Board of State Guarantees had to go through the back door to push for this agreement. I have fixed up to what degree of irrationality you have reached. That's not what anyone deserves. I don't deserve you and, above all, I don't deserve the institution of the presidency of the Generality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.186.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. [[Pause.]] Mr. Fernández, now we were going to do the reconsideration that you asked us to do, but if you want to do it now..., go out and do it..., position yourself, as the rest of the groups have done, then, when we come, when we come back from the reconsideration, we will proceed directly to the vote. So, you can come here and do the... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.187.0	Thank you, President. Before starting the speech, ask for a separate vote in the proceedings that they intend to dispense with... We believe that it is essential that we know what rights they want to violate, and therefore I take the opportunity to make this request now on behalf of my group. Shortly before being disqualified, Francesc Homs said the following words: "I will not abide by my disqualification. In addition, I assure you that if the court disqualifies me it will be the end of Spain. It is possible that in Mr Homs' fertile imagination he still holds the position of spokesman in the Parliamentary Group of the Congress of the PDECAT. It is even possible that in the fertile imagination of Mr Homs Spain has disappeared; we should ask him, we do not know. But reality is clumsy, reality is imposed, and it is my obligation to transport them to reality. I began the intervention with this reflection, because the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia powerfully drew my attention to the exact same thing the other day: "I will not abide by my disqualification, and if they disqualify me it will be the end of Spain." Each one who draws and draws any conclusions that may be appropriate. [[Greetings.]] As Mayra Gómez Kemp said, so far I can read about this subject. Look, all this didn't move him with the intention of watering the party or discouraging them; yesterday they were very excited, hugged, selfies were made, even some tearful... I understand; emotions, then, are as they are and... But it is my duty, as spokesman of the People's Group, to remind them of a number of things, to transport them to reality, with serenity and firmness. Humiliating Parliament's lawyers won't come free; trampling democratic opposition, as explained here today, won't come free; scorning the Guarantee Board won't come free; threatening, as they did today, democratic municipalities won't come free, and ultimately trampling and humiliating 52_per_cent of people who didn't vote independent options won't come free. And it's important to make it clear. Today they intend to admit to processing their version of the Venezuelan constituent. I know they're saying that's an exaggeration, but let's see if they're capable of rebutting the arguments I'm going to move on. First, it is typical of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes to use referendums as an alibi and as an excuse for a previous decision. That is what you are doing today by accepting this version of the Venezuelan constitution; you have already made the decision. They say it would come into force later, but they already want to approve it today, trampling on the rights of the opposition. That I moved him in his day here and got very nervous, they said he was exaggerating; today it is shown that what we were saying is true. But then there are four absolutely indisputable arguments that show that what you were doing equates you to the worst banana dictatorships and, indeed, to the Venezuelan constituent. Four points. First: violation of the rights of deputies, as in Venezuela. Two: repeal of the existing legality without respecting the reform mechanisms themselves, as in Venezuela. Three: suspension of the separation of powers, as in Venezuela. Fourth, the most Kafkian: new location of popular sovereignty, which ceases to be the free and equal citizens of Catalonia and becomes temporarily deposited, for a period of time that we do not know, in the ANC and a conglomerate of entities that has not voted anyone. This is the transitional suspension of democracy in Catalonia, as in Venezuela. This last step – this last step – reminds us of the great Elias Canetti, when he was talking about the mass of harassment. Look, you, once you suspend democracy in Catalonia today – the two steps, yesterday's and today's – you're going to try to organize – you're not going to get it – a referendum simulation, where the least it takes to vote, that doesn't matter to you: the important thing for you, as Canetti said, is that a broad, broad but minority minority, take the streets with a series of instructions that you, from the ANC, are passing on to all the citizens of Catalonia who consider themselves independent. Objective: to make what I said four years ago a document of the ANC, which called for the decisive moment – I quote textually – "to occupy infrastructures and public buildings. That would be a real Arab spring, and we're not here in the Arab Spring. This is the fourth engine of Europe, one of the great nations of the world, a powerful economy that is emerging from the crisis, and therefore it is my duty, as spokesman for the People's Group, to place them back in reality. And they're gonna have to come back to reality. Because today I'm sure they're going to do selfies again, they're going to hug you again, it's possible that some tears will fall again... But soon, if they go this way, they'll be with Mr. Artur Mas and Mr. Homs asking for ten euros from all the Catalans who have deprived them of democracy. [[applause]] – those who have deprived democracy. And I go ahead and I go ahead and I go ahead and I go ahead and I don't think they're going to be doing very well. The news I have is that there aren't many volunteers so far. I want to finish my speech by telling you one thing. You believe that this perspective in which you are involved does not provoke me or us, as a People's Parliamentary Group, any pleasure. We appreciate many of you; there are some of you who could even say, because I have known you for many years, who is my friend. But I must also say to you with all firmness and serenity: whatever happens from now on – whatever happens from now on – will be your sole and exclusive responsibility. You will have got into this mess, you will have destroyed democracy in Catalonia, and therefore I am very afraid that you will have won it. I'm so sorry, it was your decision. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.188.0	Mr...., Mr. Fernández, you have asked for a separate vote from all the procedures that are to be excluded, but it is the one that presents the request that has the ability to determine which procedures are to be excluded. Because this is not a law proposal, nor is it a resolution proposal; it is a joint request. And, in any case, it is the proposing groups who have the ability to say the procedures they want to exclude. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Mr. Benet Salellas also wants to position?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.189.0	Yes, thank you, President. With a lot of patent and trying to give a little more peace of mind to the plenary debate... we are aware that the criticisms, right? , and the twins we have to feel during this late respond somehow, so, to the nervousness that is causing the setting up of a reference that wants to be discussed above all else. And we wanted to do, re, two or three points, without mentioning any constitution or neither, let's say, no famous phrase. In the first place, to suggest that whoever we have experienced this delay does not please us, did not please us. Anna Gabriel said that yesterday, didn't she? : In the end it will turn out that we are the anti-systems that come to defend the functioning of the institutions, right? [[Widow's remorse.]] I don't know. In any case, what is certain is that this cascade of demands that we have to see, resolve, and that has interrupted the functioning of this Parliament for hours is clearly contrary to the principle of good faith that is required in the right act, always, is what has been called 'the right abuse or fraud of the law, or we place it with the label that we claim, and that is clearly a totally reprobable attitude and that in addition to the same Rule in Article 10 asks Members and Members who do not exercise it. Not only on the 10th: concretely the 227 states, therefore, that the one that is not to be produced in the hemicicle are attitudes that deliberately intertwine the course of the debates, that it is manifest that we have experienced this late and that we saw yesterday. Personally, I have to say that it costs me a lot to hear the willingness of one band to put the State Guarantee Board in the middle of this debate as, for another band – I have to say – that the State Guarantee Board accepts to stand in the middle of this debate. And I have to say, because it makes me very sad. Here it has been said, the word "rights" has been constantly invoked: "rights of the deputies, "rights of the citizens... Clearly, for this Parliament, during all these years many legislative initiatives have passed. Some of them have affected citizens' rights in an absolutely shameful way. Many of them have affected the right to education, the right to housing, the right to the environment, the right to sanitation. And I've never seen – ever, ever – the State Guarantee Board acting as offices to defend any of these rights. And, therefore, it makes me very sad that the only time the Board of State Guarantees acts as offices to defend Spain's sacrosanct unity. Therefore, it is not worrying: the report of the Board of State Guarantees already says that, if this right is violated to which you are constantly taking over, to ask this opinion to the Board of State Guarantees, you may appeal to the Constitutional Court. If you have a strong state, a full state of institutions that are dying to act against this Parliament and against the deputies of the independence majority! If it's true that I don't think it's hard or hard to see what we can approve of in this sense in this Parliament! Therefore, you have mechanisms to restore these rights that you are constantly invoking as being violated. We, let's just say, are not in this situation, in an equivalent situation. What we would like to talk about is the question of funds, the question that includes the proposition of law. And it's precisely, I think, that you don't want what we're doing: that we're discussing, that we're talking about politics and that we're talking about exactly how we recover sovereignty and process is what we plant. And I am talking about sovereignty and procedure, which is ultimately what the Law of Legal and Fundamental Transition of the Republic is about, because here it is constantly talking about that the parliamentary majority, which does not represent a social majority, is saying, therefore, that we are imposing our will. But, of course, that we defend the process is not only Catalonia, we are not the independenceist majority; also the Catalonian Group Yes, it is Pot is a staunch defender of the recovery of Catalonia's sovereignty and that a process is set up. So my question is serious: how do we start a process in Catalonia with the Constitutional Court that we have, with disputes, disqualifications? Someone can explain to me, companies and companies of the PSC, that I am so learned to cite all kinds of legal precepts and aphorisms, can you tell me how we can make a process constitute Catalonia in the context that marks us the CT? I think that the independence majority that we have tried – what we have tried – is, in these difficulties that the Constitutional Court imposes on us, to maintain the procedures that we think are indispensable in the processing of a law and that I think they guarantee, as far as possible, the rights of the Members: to publish the law, which is still known, to give the possibility of hearing, that is, to draft the legal text, to discuss it in plenary and to vote on it. Why, if all of this is given, exactly what is the right that has violated the opposition? Has the right made a debate to the full? Is this, the right so substantial and capable that before a process constitutes and a willingness to open a process constitutes an articular one? I think that here there is a debate, there is a debate on foundations, which I hope we can then address, on constituted power and power. You take over the constituted power and want to impose the constituted power, and what we want the independence majority is not to impose any constituted power, it is to open a process. Therefore, from this perspective of the..., not of the will to impose anything on anyone, but above all of giving the word to the people, it is for which we want to ask the admission to court and the vote of this bill. One last question. I don't know if it's going to freeze hell, as someone said on the other side, because at least we don't feel absolutely guilty about anything. We feel responsible for all the decisions that are taken in this Parliament and that we want to try, somehow, to project constantly as a ram head to the Bureau. The only thing we want to do is give the people a look. Can Citizens, PSC and PP say the same? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.190.0	Thank you, Mr. Salellas. I call on the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen to make the last review and proceed to the vote on the alteration of the agenda. Thank you. They suspect the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.191.0	It's part of the session. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendment of the agenda, in accordance with Rule 81.3... [[Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]] Mr. Fernández, we've already done all the interventions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes; say, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.192.0	Thank you, President. We wanted to request, immediately after the vote, an extraordinary meeting of the Bureau to make it the Bureau, invoking Rule 37.3 of the Rules of Procedure, to reorder the work resulting from the dispensations that we are going to adopt below, because it should be remembered that it is not the competence of Parliament to reorder that work, but of the Bureau. Yesterday he refused, but let us hope that today you will do well, worth the redundancy, well things. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.193.0	Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.194.0	Call for compliance with the Rules, 88.1, and in relation to Rule 82, which I mentioned yesterday, and it was my absolutely ignored petition, in the sense that any subject that may be raised in the House must be available to Members with a minimum forty-four hours. If you wish, you may waive this request, but it must be an agreement of the Bureau, which at this time we do not know, and it must not be because the Bureau has not met again. Therefore, I would not have felt that we were voting on the enlargement of the agenda to substantiate an issue that at this time does not meet the requirements for discussion in the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.195.0	Mr. Rodriguez, this is a deal that can be waived for a table deal. And I understand that the plenary, like the supreme organ of Parliament, can do that, too, huh? So, let's get to the vote on... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Just a moment, because before... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] One moment. The vote has to be called. It is more that there has been a petition from the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia asking for a vote to put out the motions. I told the spokesman, Mr Fernández, that this is something that he can only accept or say if he accepts the proposed group. And, therefore, I ask the proposing group, the proposing groups, if they accept this petition from Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.196.0	President, we want the vote to take place as provided for in Rule 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure, which is in a single vote. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.197.0	Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.198.0	I'm really not as good as, as you know, and my group is not, with the interpretation that you and Juntes make for the Yes and the CUP of 81.3. But at least they should agree that... if they are said to be exempt, that certain procedures may be exempted, we should agree on five. And it would be good to keep the complete list, not just to say: "And there will be a final vote. To make it clear that we are voting.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.199.0	All processes are exempt, I understand, less the process of admission to the process, the publication, the transmission of messages to the articulation – which will be given two hours – the debate and the vote. And, therefore, we vote first on the alteration of the agenda. The vote begins. Votes...? The amendment to the agenda was adopted by 71 votes to 60, with two abstentions. We will continue to vote for the exemption from all the parliamentary procedures that we have said... [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Say'm, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.200.0	Yes, no, it's that with respect to the observance of the Rules that I did and that you told me that the Ple could get out of this process... it's that it didn't happen. So, in these moments it was over... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, excuse me... at these times, the order of the day had just been extended to substantiate a subject that did not meet the regular conditions for discussion. I already understand the argument that you give us; but in any case the exception that I have quoted and that is provided for in the Rules: either the Bureau's agreement, which is a regulatory possibility, or the agreement of this House, is that you have voted on the enlargement of the agenda without taking this aspect into account...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.201.0	I told you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.202.0	...we should have taken a vote on it, but he didn't do it like he did yesterday.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.203.0	Mr. Rodriguez, 81.3 exempts from all procedures, any assumption that it is to go to the plenary may be exempted from all procedures. And this one's voting now. Okay? [[Widow's remorse.]] And I told him that if the Bureau can make an agreement to exempt the plenary from this process, which is the highest organ, it can do better. So, without any further delay, let's proceed to the vote on... [[Widow's remorse.]] Let's go to the vote... let's go to the vote on the exemption from parliamentary proceedings. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Please! [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I told them; we've already looked at it. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, I didn't give him the use of the word, sir. Miri, you told me 88 points... 82. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You see, it's a call to the Rules that the President resolves by consulting the members of the Bureau. And the president has already consulted the members of the Bureau... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] I consult the members of the Bureau. [[Pause.]] The members of the Bureau have decided that we shall proceed to the vote. Therefore, the vote of the petitions that can be..., the exemption of the petitions... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Please, please, please... [[Xavier Garcia Albiol asks to speak.]] Yes; I'll give you thirty seconds, the word, thirty seconds, but let's go to the vote, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.204.0	Listen...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.205.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.206.0	The Bureau of Parliament is not a place where six friends are found, they ask for the rosary and make the decisions they want; the Bureau of Parliament is a collegiate organ, and therefore when the Bureau of Parliament makes a decision it must do so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.207.0	Sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.208.0	... according to the procedures...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.209.0	Mr. García...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.210.0	And you, this decision, and I'm done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.211.0	Mr. García...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.212.0	...I can't take it here, commenting as if you were...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.213.0	Mr. García...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.214.0	...as if you were in a pocket...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.215.0	Mr. Garcia!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.216.0	...or as if you're not sure where to make decisions that aren't your own... [[Voice remorse and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.217.0	Mr. Garcia, you don't make me take the word out of them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.218.0	Is it possible to gather and make the decision officially?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.219.0	Mr García, it is a consultation of the members of the Bureau, not the Bureau, a consultation of the members of the Bureau, and the end of the day. That's what the Rules said. So, please, start the vote. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] The result of the vote was 70 votes in favour, 19 against and 2 abstentions. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] There's a period of emens... there's a period of emens that will end at eleven o'clock in the night. And as long as we continue with the order of the day. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] The next item on the agenda is the question to the Government... [[Miquel Iceta and Llorens intervenes without using the microphone.]] I've already... Mr. Iceta, I've already warned you. I think... [[Widow's remorse.]] They've been talking to all the parliamentary groups, all of them, a long time. So I think the vote has already been taken. Now we'll do the next point of the order of the day. [[Asking the Government about the decline]] [[300-00203/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the decrease, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - Constituent Call. To expose her, has the word Lord Sergi Saladié. [[Greetings.]] They ask them, as always, to go silent so that they can continue with the session. [[Pause.]] Mr. Saladié, when you're ready.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.220.0	All right, thank you, President. After many hours waiting to be able to continue with the Ple in a normal way, we would try to bring some elements of interest in relation to a topic that seems important to us, such as the question of decline, basically for two questions. The first is because we are, therefore, before a process constitutes, that we have no doubt that we will initiate it in the next weeks, after being able to do what we approved yesterday, which is the result of this reference. In order to decrease, and to begin to clarify some concepts, we understand that it is carried out in an orderly, democratically directed and socially just way towards an economic model that is based on the economic stability and the regeneration capacity of the planet. We also seem opportune to talk about this issue of decline because, in fact, we are already decreasing in some aspects, if not in most. Just taking some references, some general data, so, for example, energy, we look at the same levels of electricity consumption we had in 2005, after having a peak around 2010-11; in road freight transport we were at the levels of 2003; at the level of cement consumption we were at the levels of the sixties, and at the level, for example, of retail trade we were at the levels of the nineties. So, after passing a cycle of a peak, let's go back to levels, so, with those that I've exposed only in example mode, which would correspond to decades passed. And all this, basically, we could explain in the context of a series of questions that need to be taken into account, especially from the base that we live on a planet that ends up in its resources – it has resources that are limited – and that also has a limited capacity to absorb our residues. And that, moreover, we are doing with an economic and social capitalist model, which continues to feed or continues to feed the myth of infinite growth. And, therefore, they are two absolutely contradictory things: while we have a limited planet, with limited resources, we have a capitalism that bases all its existence on growing infinitely. And here it is very important to introduce a series of questions to take into account before the situation we face. For a band, the eco-friendly fart. The ecological scourge is an environmental indicator of the integrative impact of a certain human community – country, region or city – on its environment. And today our planet Earth is with an ecological patch of a planet and mig, globally, but with huge inequalities: while there are countries that consume levels again and again their surface or need again and again their surface to feed off all those levels of consumption, such as most countries like Canada or the United States, there are also many countries in the world that live, or survive, or live with less of a country, that is, consume less of a country in relation to the resources they need. In Catalonia we are located on a level of a 7.7 of ecological petjada. What's that supposed to mean? That we need an area of 7.7 times that of Catalonia to supply us and to maintain our current level of benefits and energy, and also to manage the residues we generate. That is to say, we could do it in another way: Catalonia we are apt to a territory 6.7 times larger than our own to maintain this level of consumption that we currently have. So, that, say, is an unfair way to relate to the world community. Another important aspect that we need to consider in order to hear the situation we find is the issue related to the climate crisis. And here we haven't talked enough, because we have processed a law of climate change; we could say that in this sense we have advanced in some aspects, even though this document, this law, therefore, would still have some elements that would be better in the future. We're also ahead of a biosphere crisis. Speaking of which, we're in front of the massive extinction earthquake; the last one was 65 million years ago, huh? At the time of the Cretaci. At present, according to the index of the living planet, we have, we say this index of the living planet, that the world population of fish, aus, mammals, amphibians and reptiles has decreased by 58_percent between the year 70 and the year 2012; it is to say, in forty years we have carried more than half of the species we have in the world. Sweet water reserves, another problem that we have very hard: each time they are more known, therefore, the great evens that affect important parts of the planet, the increase of torrential plugs, that generate a lot of water, but it is an unprofitable water. Residues: we have a metabolism that generates a large quantity of residues, in Catalonia we have a hard problem with residues, only we are able to manage more or less properly a 35-40_per_cent, with a target of 2020 of 50_per_cent, and while, therefore, all this was done to incinerators, mouthpieces or directly drawn to the natural environment. Let's get into the hard core, you know, one of the key aspects of this crisis, huh? , in which we are and in this decline that is already evident with these parameters that I have commented at the beginning: the energy crisis. The energy crisis, we could say, was already predicted for Marion King Hubbert the year 56, geophysical and technical of the Shell – I mean, it wasn't an NGO, it was a lord who worked for an oil company. He predicted the exhaustion of the cheap extraction of oil and fossil fuels in the first decade of the 21st century; that is, four days ago, we have already passed this first decade. And, indeed, in November 2010, the International Energy Agency made public that conventional oil extraction – what we know as "raw" – reached its maximum level – zenith, strenuous or peak – the year 2006, recognized for the same International Energy Agency. Since then the companies have tried to introduce various non-conventional resources, such as biofuels, bituminous sorres, fracking, to compensate for this decline in conventional raw. They are alternatives that have failed and that have not only generated severe environmental and social impacts, but have also ruined the businesses they wanted to dedicate themselves to. In the United States we have a magnificent example of how many companies that have invested in fracking have ended up ruining. Moreover, oil companies are in a disinvestment campaign to stop exploring new deposits or to develop some of the already discovered but not in production, and this, obviously, will have consequences that will make them feel sooner than later. Moreover, this zenith, pit or peak is also coming to other energy products: natural gas, it is expected that by the year 2020, therefore, it will arrive at this pit; the coal has already passed the year 2015; the uranium is in irreversible decay since the year 2012. Therefore, there are – at least these will not be – alternatives to the future in this sense. And this is already having effects in our day-to-day lives. In fact, several economists directly relate the current crisis in the western world to the arrival of this zenith of oil: preus alts, which provoke an economic recession, which, then, generates a fall of this demand for oil and, therefore, low prices, which enable a certain economic revival, which, say, increases these oil prices. And in fact, if we look at the evolution of economic metabolism with the evolution of the barrel of oil, we'll see that this, say... there's quite a direct correlation. Professors, for example, of economics, such as James Hamilton, of the University of California, in San Diego, believe that from the noranta_dòlars the barrel of oil the economy begins to stress and that, moreover, when energy expenditure rises by 6_percent of the total expenditure of citizens, or may say a company or an administration, these begin to change their behavior significantly, because it affects the assumption, already domestic, business or administration. And, indeed, from the impressive pull that we had held on oil prices in August 2008– everyone must remember that the barrel of oil has squandered the hundred_Fifty_dollars the barrel–, we have no longer raised head. And that fact, say, so, is getting worse with wear... this morning we were talking, huh? , of a proposal of law against banking usury, as in CUP - Constituent Creed ; therefore, this fact that we have commented on the energy crisis is being made worse by the usury of the providers of unjust and unpayable debts that have led to glue the majority of the population with a few shortcuts and a reduction of their living conditions. So... And that's just a few examples of these limits that we have in our current growth, these are these small examples that we've wanted to put on the table, but actually it's a question that we've already talked about forty-five years ago at the Club of Rome, with its well-known publication The Limits of Growth, which has already, we say, wished that, if we followed those trends of growth that were in force at that time and that the last few years have not stopped increasing them, the most likely result would be a collapsing of civilization towards the mid-twentieth century. And this report, which was last reviewed, in 2012, by authors like Graham Turner..., confirms that the conclusions of that report are being scrupulously completed, unfortunately, we could say, and so, say, quite stupid on the part of the human condition, that we would have to be much more intelligent in order not to reach these irreversible points. We wanted to plant this in the government, because somehow, so we could say what you think, right? , of all this panorama partially exposed here in this intervention, and, above all, as they see this affect of the various crises that we are affecting, already environmental, already energy, of these limits that we have as the planet. And, in any case, on the second side, therefore, developed some more purposeful questions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.221.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.222.0	Good night to everyone. [[Pause.]] Good night to everyone. I'm glad we have the opportunity to talk about this kind of questions, too, that they are, sense of doubt, very uplifting. A first reflection that seems interesting to me or that seems important to me is what we mean by economic decline, what we mean by decrease, and when we talk about decline we make a reference to economic character or make a reference to the use of natural resources. And surely depending on that we would be more or less agreeable. Of course, for the sake of the use of natural resources and its sustainability, this is a question that we are sure that it also gives for a great deal of reflection, but in any case, for the use of natural resources there is certainly a broad consensus, and we probably have, I understand, a remarkable consensus, around the need to ensure economic sustainability, to ensure the sustainability of these resources, to try to reduce the impact that human activities and human presence have on the planet, this so-called "massive extinction that according to some scientists is occurring as a result of human intervention on the planet, etcetera. Another different reflection – meaning dubte are interlinked, but different – is the concept of economic decline. And surely here the consensus is not so broad and we probably don't agree; but in any case, we also have the option to prove it, to explore it and to seek consensus on what is possible. For what it does to economic growth, or its decline, economic growth continues to have a direct impact and will certainly have it, at least for a long time, for example, in the levels of occupation. And, therefore, economic growth continues to be a very important factor in hearing the capacity and potential of an economy and its ability to have a fiscal musculature, a tax base that supports, for example, the state of well-being. In this sense, economic growth means that it is a remarkable objective, a remarkable criterion. We are sure..., go on, absolutely sure that it cannot be the only remarkable criterion in the analysis of the behavior of an economy; there are many others: the distribution of income – various indexes are used in this sense – the conjunction of the social structure, etcetera. But in any case, economic growth seems to us to be a relevancy and an objective that we need to put into value. In this sense, fortunately, from my point of view at least, the Catalan economy in the past few years has a very good behavior from this point of view, and we are in record of gross domestic product. I insist that it is a given that for it itself is not an explanation of the complexity of economic and social reality, but it is a relevant one. In fact, at the end of the year you see, of the 2018 exercise, we are likely to be around 245,000_million euros of gross domestic product, when four years back we were around 200,000_million euros. Therefore, it is a positive fact, which is explained, in good measure – we have dealt with it here on various occasions – also for the good behavior of our exports, of our foreign sector in general, etcetera. You cited the concept of eco-friendly petjada, which is a very useful tool to try to understand the impact of human activity and economic activity on our environment. In fact, the Catalan economy – you were talking about the Catalan economy for a moment, citing some facts about this – has been an economy that, in many moments of its history, has had an uplifting ecological crush. Because the ecological patch is also related to population density levels, with the provision of natural resources per capita... And the history of Catalonia, the Catalan society and the Catalan economy have, among other particularities, that of which we have sustained levels of population that clearly were above the borders of economic capacity of the territory. This made it an economy that needed to be a very open economy. It has been in the 13th century in relation to the suppliers of Mediterranean cereals, which was the star product of trade at that time; it has been in the 17th century in relation to the producers of cereals from northern Europe, the Baltic lands; it has been in relation to the contributions of the North Sea, the North Atlantic, in the form of herring, cod, etc.; it has been in relation, for example, to Cuba, with the paper on sugar, etc. Therefore, the ecological scourge is a concept that can necessarily link to these levels of population density, that can link to the endowment of natural resources per capita and, in the case of Catalonia, the endowment of productive agricultural land has always been very limited by the level of population we had. And that's what made us look for these resources abroad. The need to finance imports of these resources has also determined that we are a necessary open economy in the field of exports. And, therefore, it has been an economy that has tended to seek productive specialization in products that have a behavior of its elasticity that relatively essential facts in the market. This certainly also explains questions related to the development of textiles, etc. Fortunately, technological development has transformed many of these issues; it has transformed them because, for example, it has made certain natural resources more cost-effective than we would otherwise have considered exhausted. And, in this sense, the theoretical debate is a lengthy debate – from the Illustration to the coming – and it is a debate that I continue to feel relevant in our days. Indeed, the sustainability of resource consumption on the planet at this time is an element of concern and that involves us – or should we, at least – all of us. At the same time, it is also true that technological endowment levels condition the ability to extrude these resources or make the extraction of resources that were not previously profitable. This makes the..., peak oil, the border where oil production ceases to be profitable is not a border that is defined only by the quantity of reserves but also by the quantity of exploitable reserves – this is linked to technology – or by its price. Because, obviously, the higher the price, the more profitable is its exploitation in certain contexts; this happens in the case of oil. And, in fact, to a good extent, the behaviour of the oil market and the oil price market is conditioned by rivalry between various forms of production. In any case, I insist, it is an uplifting issue, from the point of view of..., at least, from the ecological point of view and natural resources – here, I think we agree – and that our attention should be worthy of our attention. Deia: "Fortunately, the Catalan economy is also an economy that in the past few years has been very clearly specialized, from a point of view of the increase in its productivity. The total productivity of the factors has improved at a much faster pace – almost three times faster than the European average in the last three years. This makes us continue an economy with more capacity to grow, an economy that grows more quickly, which generates more opportunities to generate wealth, than the economies around us. But obviously there are still limitations in the amount of resources available. The more technologically available we are, the more capable we are of making our economy sustainable. On this issue too, another reflection that seems interesting to me is – that I don't know if I will have a chance to develop now and, if not, perhaps in the next return, and, if not, another day – that the relationship with our environment is not only conditioned by the availability of resources, by technological levels or by social structure; it is also conditioned, and this is connected with..., of course, with all these elements at the same time, but it is a substantial pro-element in itself, for example, by forms of ownership. And, in this sense, one of the most obvious features of the development of capitalism in the next two and a half centuries, in the next three centuries, is a definition every time clearer – and the concept ‘clearly does not necessarily have positive connotations' – of the property right. The right of ownership that has characterized capitalist development is a right of ownership well-established in the Roman private right and contrasts with a tradition that was hegemonic in medieval and modern times, that founded the right of ownership on the tradition of the right of German inspiration, that had a less clear definition of these rights of ownership and that included, in many cases, multiple property or multiple uses of natural resources and that also explained a good part of its sustainability. In any case, we will then develop it and I will try to respond to your proposals, both in this comeback and in our own parliamentary sessions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.223.0	Thank you, Vice President. I've got the word Mr. Saladié.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.224.0	All right, thank you, President. Returning or collecting the question of the decrease in this exhibition that we made the book of the Club of Rome, the study of the Club of Rome, entitled Limits of Growth, and that we warned of a possible col·lapse to the..., during the second half or around the half of this century, we would have to start worrying or we would have to take it seriously because of this reason that we have stated: recent follow-up reports have found that actually, right? We're going in this direction or this wrong direction. And we should also be concerned – and, besides, you are a historian and you will surely know that there is..., I understand that you will know some of these cases – that we would not be the first civilization to collaps on a global scale. As a matter of fact, we have more or less awareness of a few col·lapsades: from May to Central America to Greenland, passing through Easter Island. So, until you're up to seven more, more or less, huh? Approximately, they're the ones that we'd be in control of. Of these, there is a professor of geography at the University of California who specifically analyzed five of them in his magnificent book, titled Col·lapse. Because some companies stay and some others disappear and what was published in 2005 – I don't know if he will know it but, well, it's a lot of reference book, apart from being quite extensive. We explain, with these five cases, how environmental degradation and overexploitation of resources are factors that have brought..., among others, as you also thought, reality is very complex, but these two elements – overexploitation of resources, especially, and environmental degradation – have brought these civilizations to the col·lapse. The problem now is that it would not collapse an island or collapse a small territory; as society is globalised – or mostly globalised – the risk of collapsing would be worldwide. Obviously, with different levels of intensity, according to the reasons. And also according to the levels of resilience, which is a concept that I would also like to introduce, even though today I will not have time, so they will be better adapted with these chances of col·lapse or with this decrease, of this decrease that we already have, which is already palpable with those numbers that I gave at the beginning of my exposure. Therefore, in order not to see us engaged in these risks and in some of the evidences that are already palpable, we understand that we need radical changes in our ways of life, in our forms of production, in the design of cities and the planning of the territory, in food and energy, among other factors, but above all in social and cultural values that guide all of the above. That is to say, those elements that are the ones that mark social priorities. If we do not have good social values surely the other we will be secondary or even according to some ideologies or positions, therefore, irrelevant. And it shouldn't be like that. Therefore, we need a society that aims to recover this balance with the biosphere, to increase its resilience, as we say, to make this transition possible and to use research, technology, culture, economy and politics together and in a comprehensive way to move forward with these objectives urgently. That is why we need, we understand, all the political imagination, all the moral generosity and technical creativity that we can deploy. It will be an effort comparable to that of a society that is under war and, in fact, we could hear from this point of view that we are at war for our own survival against a system that carries us head, as we informed the book..., the report of the Club of Rome, therefore, towards extinction. And we understand that in this sense setting the decline should be one of the priorities as the basic tool that we should use so that we do not get hurt from time to time by a collapse that we would not understand, right? When we were dealing with the Agricultural Law, which was that of the agricultural areas, now that we have the Agricultural Council, we set the example of the lack of supply of the markets, in order to increase the price of the oil year 2008, of the trucks that went to the vaga, that we opened a telenews of TV3 with empty shelves of supermarkets. And the people said, "Host, how did this happen? Well, so, it was a long time ago and fortunately there, so, it was carved, they recovered from that, we could say, disturbance and we could continue. But if that disturbance, then, lasted two months or two years, what happened, right? Let's say Catalonia we're only food sovereigns in a 30_per_cent, we only generate 30_per_cent of the totality of food. In change, we don't export much, much more than per capita we would need to eat. We're a little... a lot of food when we might have to make less of a lot of different food, right? , to self-supply and ensure this food sovereignty that we didn't take the train in the middle of the road. Plus we're in this mind-blowing process, aren't we? , building a new republic. And, therefore, we understand that here the element of recovering those sobrieties that would precisely allow us to be much safer, much more resilient, should be one of the priorities that we would have as a country. I mean, it's not an eccentricity that we come up with a question here that... related to this question so concrete, it's probably unknown to a lot of people. And in this sense, we would be interested to know if the government has already, before these evidences and risks, some measures aimed at guaranteeing food sovereignty, for example, energy sovereignty. Or if he has not done so, then, as if he had contemplated it in some of his prospects of viability, no longer only economic or social but of viability of life itself. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.225.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. I've got the vice president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.226.0	I don't applaud him because I have to answer him, let's just say it, huh? Let's see, basically from the perspective of the Department of Economics and History, let's say, huh? Therefore, yes, the government and our department in particular is trying to have these types of issues present, from our sphere of responsibility, for example, with the management of Feder programs and with the development of RIS3CAT programs and, therefore, with the development of intelligent development or intelligent decline. All those elements, all those sectors that precisely have high levels of productivity, because that makes us more sustainable. As higher is the productivity of the combination of our most important factors, we preserve the natural resources we use in these production processes. Therefore, it is one of the priorities of this technological development and that the returns are the highest possible. Precisely because this preserves these natural resources. Catalonia certainly faces, in some cases in a very obvious way, significant limitations. Surely one of the most well-known and conscious for everyone is in the water field, to set an example. But it goes through other natural resources or it goes through some of the elements that we're pursuing around us, huh? And, for example, these are elements that must focus our attention. On this question also another..., now I feel tempted to make a more generic reflection, because I understand that you allowed me in your intervention when you were talking about the collapsing of certain economic spaces, right? Some of these collapses have been more widespread than the ones you proposed, which I agree perfectly with you. And, therefore, they pose us even more clearly before the end that can lead to a climate change, a change in our ecological environment, that can lead to any kind of alteration. For example, in the field of climate is certainly the most obvious, most known case, the rise in sea level, etc., because it puts at risk, therefore, the provision, the reserve of agricultural land, very often agricultural land of high production. Therefore, obviously as the planet here we are also before a very high repte. We, like the country, insist, from the Department of Economics try to work in this intelligent development, in this intelligent growth. And, therefore, empower those high-value economic sectors, those high-tech economic sectors. The government and Parliament and the joint venture of society also express this concern, for example, with the Climate Change Act; therefore, it seems to me that it is also a good indicator of our concern for this issue. It is obvious that in many cases many of these problems are beyond our territorial scope, because they are global problems. And in all those areas in which we can have a direct intervention even more, let's say, in all of them but still more in which we can have a direct intervention and in which our action has more obvious consequences, so it is obvious that we have to be especially relevant. I understand that in the motion following this inquiry there will be concrete proposals that can be discussed in the field of energy, in the field of natural resources, in the field of water management, in the field of agriculture, etc. And it is possible, to the best of my knowledge, that in many of these elements we agree, because, in fact, in some cases we have agreed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.227.0	Thank you very much, Vice President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.228.0	We make the eighth point of the order of the day that is the inquiry to the Government on the competences attributed for Decree 108/2017 to the Department of Vice-Presidentship and Economy and History. [[Question to the Government on the competences attributed by Decree 108/2017 to the Department of the Vice-Presidentship and Economy and History]] [[300-00207/11]] The word has the deputy Fernando de Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.229.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, Vice President... thank you, President-in-Office, at this time, thank you. Councillor Junqueras..., Councillor Junqueras, good late. Members of the government, companies, companies, deputies, deputies, people who are present in the public, good late everyone. Well, you'll understand that this interpellation is difficult, or complicated, or put the adjective you want, to do at a time like this. In theory, this interpellation should be one more within the daily parliamentary activity, within parliamentary normality, but unfortunately there have been a number of facts that, logically, you will understand that I have to include within this interpellation that goes precisely on what you want to do, which is that non-referendum of October 1st. Therefore, as it has been you who have changed the agenda, as it has been you who have introduced new aspects into this week's debate, you will understand that I too have included them in my question. And it's hard to start questioning Councillor Junqueras, Vice-President of the Government, without reflecting on what we're experiencing these days. And we are living one of the saddest days of Catalan democracy, where a minority, because you are a minority on the street, as you know, have trampled directly on the rights of the majority of Catalans, who are represented by opposition groups, who are represented by groups that we think differently but that unite us one thing, to opposition groups unite us something, that is democracy. As I say to you, during these days we have attended a roll, a parliamentary absolutist majority, and I believe, Mr Junqueras, that you cannot be proud of what you have seen these days. You cannot be proud of the management, which has been made, Parliamentarians and how we have dealt with people we think differently, who, of course, defend our ideas, but who in any case are parliamentary colleagues and colleagues in democracy. And unfortunately it has been broken in the middle of that corridor that separates the opposition from the government, it has broken into two democracy in Catalonia. And that's very serious – it's very serious – and of course that also influences what you want to do, which is the referendum of October 1. Because as this debate has begun, as this approval has been achieved, it says a lot about the democratic quality that you want to promote in the coming days. And I have a number of questions in this regard, because what we are most concerned about right now, which is directly linked to the object of my inquiry, is that they are unable to listen. You have said this on several occasions in this Parliament, that you like to listen and that you always listen attentively to Members. Well, I'm concerned that you don't just listen to the opposition anymore, but that you don't listen to the lawyers in this Parliament. And when you don't listen to the lawyers in this Parliament, you have two reasons: either you know more than them, that it's possible, that you know more than them, or you just don't like what they say. We also don't understand why you don't listen to the Status Guarantee Board. And I would also like you to position yourself on that, because you are in charge of organizing the referendum, and the referendum has started to organize itself in an illegal way, you have started to organize yourself by literally skipping the democratic norms and the rights of Members, who, although we do not govern, even if we are not in the party that supports the government, have also chosen us in an urn – a real urn, in this case – and have also voted for us just like you. You have been voted Catalans and we have also been voted Catalans. As I say to you, this Council of Guarantees Statutàries I imagine that now they will start to say... – I have heard it in statements by the deputy of the CUP – they will start to say that it is the cave, too. But it is that the Board of Statutory Guarantees is not in the Castellana, Mr Junqueras, the Board of Statutory Guarantees is in Palau Centelles, in the Baixada de Sant Miquel, number 8. There is the Statutory Guarantee Board, and it is a body chosen, as you know, by members of your government directly to your finger. And when the Board of Statutory Guarantees, which is not the evil Constitutional, is not the evil prosecutor's office, but is the Board of Statutory Guarantees chosen by you, you do not listen to it and remain alone. Do you believe, as the organizer of the referendum, that it is a good way to start? Are you proud that what you have been entrusted with, which is the organization of that non-referendum on day 1, has begun in that way, without listening to most Catalans, without listening to the Parliament's lawyers and without paying attention to that Council of Guarantees Statutes? I insist, a Council of State Guarantees which is of all Catalans, especially Members of Parliament, who have the right to use it. Therefore, in this first phase you have suspended. Understand that you make this assessment from the opposition. You suspend in the first phase of the referendum because you do so in the only way that you could not do it, that it was by skipping democracy and scorning the rights of all Members of this Parliament who do not think like you. And, in addition, already entering into the question of holding that non-referendum on 1 October, issues that worry us, questions that I hope you will answer. I know you're very skilled at not answering the questions, but let's try it, or I'll at least ask the questions in a clear way so that you can't then tell me that I haven't been clear in my question. I'd like to know... I understand that to make a referendum you'll need a census. And that census will be made up of the data of all Catalans, it will be made up of our addresses, where we live, by our DNI, by a series of information necessary for any electoral process, even for which you intend. I would like to know how they have obtained the data of all Catalans, how they have obtained the data of all Catalans. I'd like to know where those data are that you've got. Have they been achieved through their usual methods? Because we had a good chance to talk about that topic, we had a good chance to talk about how data was obtained in the Vidal commission, but you didn't want to. And since you did not want to, because it was the first time in the democratic history of the Parliament of Catalonia that a committee of inquiry is blocked, those questions have not yet been answered, Mr Junqueras, those questions are in the air, they have not been answered as they have to be answered. And, therefore, you will understand that I ask you that question every day: how will you get the data? Will he do so as Mr. Vidal said, who was literally spying on the Catalans? You know Mr Vidal well, because he has been a member of his party, he has been a candidate, he has been a spokesman in the Senate, I imagine he will have a professional relationship, at least I dare say, with him. Was Mr. Vidal lying when he was talking about the data? Have you really had to obtain the data for the referendum, as Mr Vidal said, who was spying directly on all Catalans? We would like to know why you refused to appear on that committee, because you blocked it. That was a parliamentary filibusterism, not what we have experienced these days, which has been defending the rights of the majority of Catalans. Mr. Junqueras, in addition to a census I imagine that in your non-referendum someone will also have to do it, someone will have to be on the ground. I already know that in the previous one you were counting the votes directly in your people, but I imagine that on this occasion there will be people who will also count on you for that organization. And we are concerned about the role of officials in all of this: what role do officials play in holding their referendum? Are you going to make them choose between committing an illegality that is paying attention to you and following you? Or will you allow them to carry out their duties? Because officials, what a government has to do is protect them. A government can't do with the officials is make them choose politically, a government can't do with the officials is put them in the decision that they have to comply or not comply with the laws, and you're doing with the officials exactly the opposite: it's using them. And we will not allow it in our party and, as leaders of the opposition, we will not allow it. And you have a chance here today from this inquiry, Mr. Junqueras..., I know I'm being very optimistic about my questions and that I probably won't get an answer, because that could also dismantle part of your story over these days. But I'm going to try, it's my obligation as a job that we have the opposition to control the government, and I'm going to try. I want to know if you can ensure that you will protect the officials on October 1, and I would like to know what plan you have for all public servants for that day. Because we've already seen what happens next and we've already seen what happened after 9-N. And you intend to repeat a 9-N and we are concerned and I am convinced that, to many officials, regardless of what you vote for, if you vote for Citizens or vote for Republican Left, you will be thinking about what the government will do for them and what role you will play. In all that, Mr. Junqueras, you know that after October 1st arrives on October 2nd, October 3nd, October 4th, October 5th, October 6th, and so on. But you're just talking about October 1st. Well, and they're talking about day three, because I imagine they'll have the result written and you know what's going to happen. But I would like you to have the courage today to answer all these questions, to have the courage to tell us how you are preparing October 1st, to have the courage to tell us what you are doing with our data, to have the courage to tell us how much it will cost us October 1st. Will you have to pay for it on October 1 as Mr. Artur Mas will have to on November 9th? We would like to know that answer, we would like to know what cost it will have, because in the end your parties, independenceists, Mr Junqueras, for now you do not pay them: we pay all Catalans of our taxes: those who have voted for you and those who have not voted for you. And that's why I'd like to know those three questions. Let him answer me, let him be honest, let him be brave if I dare to tell him and please tell us once and for all what they are going to do for that next October 1st, because he worries us, after what we have lived these days, where they have been run over and where the rights of the majority of Catalans have been trampled. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.230.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. The words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Oriol Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.231.0	Good afternoon, another time, everybody. I'm glad they've had a chance to talk loud and clear. I'm convinced that you'll listen to me as much as you respect that I did, let's just say. In many of your questions, there were very explicit judgments of value that I obviously do not share; but in any case, I start with one of the extremes that you pointed out. You said, "After October 1st will come October 2nd, after October 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th... It's an obvious thing about which we are absolutely in agreement, and, more than that, I mean, we could keep going for days. And you said, "They don't like to talk about this kind of question. On the contrary, we like to talk about this type of question very much. And what will it be, what is our will? So, exactly the same one that's always characterized us, right? To face the future from the highest respect, from the highest education, from the highest consideration respect our interlocutors – in this case, parliamentary interlocutors – respect our interlocutors in general, respect the joint society, etcetera. It seems to us that, in addition, maintaining these good forms, having an educated attitude and a respectful attitude is something that helps to help us to hear more clearly what our message is. With regard to the month of October, the month of November and the years that they will come, whatever our attitude should be, I said. This, and also the conviction that we all have shared responsibilities. We have shared responsibilities respect our society, respect the institutions, respect the joint venture of the European Union, and that these shared responsibilities are also fundamental to what we have often referred to as 'credulous reputations'. In fact, this is a concept that we have used people with various ideological characteristics: I have used it very often, I have also felt that I did, for example, Minister Montoro or Minister De Guindos or so many other people. Who are these credible reputations? Therefore, the fact that, obviously, all those institutions which, for example, have fiscal responsibilities over the citizens of a particular territorial area of a particular company, are also responsible for the services they provide in the context of their sphere of responsibility. It is also all that relates, for example, to external debt, to bonds of finance, public bonds, other public institutions, private ones, etc. And that, from this point of view, there is no other possible attitude – and, in any case, we do not set ourselves up with another – that does not follow the one of the maximum responsibility and the one of the will of the maximum collaboration. Because we are convinced that any of the decisions that we may take will have consequences on the rest of the institutions, on the rest of the citizens, and three-quarters of the same opposite: any decision to take the rest of the institutions will also impact our economy. We want to be responsible, in fact, explain very often that responsibility pleases us as long as we want to be able to assume it all. In any case, this is a decision that the citizens of Catalonia will have to take, which fortunately they will take in a democratic way. And this has always been our commitment. We've always respected the results, always. And when we haven't had the chance, then, to have most of us respect the results, the same way we expect everyone to respect them if in any case this circumstance changes. It is obvious that in the parliamentary sphere at these times, therefore, it is this way, and we also hope that it will be referred to by the social majority of our country. And if it wasn't, then we'd respect the outcome, as we've always done, exactly the same. So, for example, in the field..., to speak of the future, let us say, in the field, for example, of public debt, you know that our intention is to assume that part that corresponds to the public debt of the Spanish State. And we are willing to talk about it; in fact, we have not talked enough: we have done it with public institutions, we have done it in this Parliament on many occasions, we have done it in the press room of La Moncloa or we have done it in conferences in entities deprived of all rights. Therefore, we want to take on a share of this public debt, which we understand is that we are still able to put ourselves - there is agreement and that it corresponds to the appropriate levels. Here you know that there are several possible criteria to apply: criteria for what makes the investment effective – in fact, this is the criteria that has been used most commonly in the later secession and creation processes of new states from previous states – demographic criteria, gross domestic product criteria, fiscal stress criteria, etc. And we are convinced that this objective, this objective that we have to be responsible for, to act responsibly, so it must also be the same as you have, the group that you represent in your intervention, or the group of public institutions. That is why it seems to us that it is very important that the set of decisions we take in the way of taking on these responsibilities are always decisions marked by democracy, by the vote of the citizens... And that's precisely why we do all the efforts that are in our midst to help the citizens have the option of deciding with their vote. That's our goal, it always did. If you had occasion to listen to us at other times, even many years ago, you would have heard us explain exactly that in the same terms, etc. And, therefore, in this sense, our commitment is absolute. We understand that with you we do not share a part of our goals, it is perfectly respectable. And, as I like to explain, because I actually think it is very relevant, I understand that most of those citizens who want to vote do not in the October 1 referendum separate a relatively minor issue from us. And it's that, obviously, as you correctly assume, so I'll choose yes and they, in this case, those who want to vote no, will choose no. But, aside from this element that separates us, there are many elements that also join us and unite us. In this sense, it unites us, therefore, the willingness to exercise a democratic right as well as the right to vote. And, therefore, between now and the time to put our respective papers in the ballot boxes, it is obvious that we share our compromise with democracy and with the exercise of the right to vote, that it is a democratic right of speech, and from the moment we put our paper in the ballot box, respectively, so we share the will to respect its outcome. Therefore, with many of the citizens who will vote 'no', or with all those citizens who will vote 'no', it is obvious that we share values that are fundamental and that are universal, and that is why we understand that they are perfectly understandable and consumable for people who see many different places, or that they are perfectly consumable for so many people in our country that at this time, under various circumstances, therefore, has the opportunity, in many cases, to live in other places of the world. In particular, in this sense, between the things that unite us there is only one thing in this Parliament that you have heard me say on various occasions– and, if not, today, therefore, I am sure that yes, if at other times you have not had the opportunity to feel it –: we have always expressed it – and if that is not the way it will already correct us – the utmost respect and consideration for Spanish society, for Spanish citizens... Why? Because we share a lot of things. In fact, if we do not share them, we would also feel the same consideration and the same respect; but, moreover, there are many elements of emotional proximity, for family bonds, for origin, for questions of language, etcetera. Therefore, we are convinced that the fact that democracy can triumph in Catalonia, with the exercise of such a fundamental right in any democracy as the right to vote, is not only an opportunity for democracy in Catalonia, but also an opportunity for democracy in the world, and in particular in Spain. And that referring to Catalonia and that the fact that the citizens of Catalonia can decide democratically and collectively on a question so high is also a lever of change, is an opportunity of change for Spain. And in this sense we always ask the Spanish democrats, as we ask the democrats from all over the world, therefore, because they have the most collaborative attitude possible with our project. All these elements that I have just mentioned to you and that seem to me to somehow summarise what our will and intention is, so they are the elements that characterise and characterise this reference and our work in this area. And sure – sure – you've heard us explain many times that we're going to make this reference as always, that's to say, by putting in the maximum of democratic guarantees, and that there's one element that's sure that it's not like always, and that's that there's a state, also with its keystrokes, known to everyone – we've felt ministers of the Interior conspiring openly to make false evidence, for example – so that does everything possible so that the citizens of Catalonia can't vote. And before we do that, we always add new and more guarantees to it so that the citizens of Catalonia can express themselves freely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.232.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. It has the word, for the reply, the deputy Fernando de Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.233.0	Well, thank you, President. Mr. Junqueras..., with you it is very difficult; it is very difficult because it does not answer any questions, basically. I have put the questions to you in a very clear way, I have tried to make an exhibition with a moderate tone. I have asked you direct questions, which can be answered with yes or no; some can be answered in one way..., with two or three monosyllables. And you didn't answer anything. You have been here ten_minutes talking to me about terms like « the creuades reputations, « the deficit... But, Mr Junqueras, it is that I have not asked you why, it is that I have asked you a very clear question: census. In ten minutes you did not say the word 'census' or 'officials' or tell me about the cost. I asked you: how are you going to do the census of the next non-referendum on October 1st, Mr Junqueras? Or have they not yet? Don't tell me you haven't done it yet. How are you going to do that? If you're spying on the data from the Catalans, as Mr. Vidal said. I have asked you very specific questions, and you have given me a presentation in which you have not answered any questions. You no longer only trample on the rights of the majority of Catalans, as you have shown these days: you do not even respond to the opposition when you exercise parliamentary control, Mr Junqueras. He hasn't answered any questions, it's amazing! Really, I admire you in that ability that you have to say nothing in ten_minutes. It is an enviable ability, not to answer any questions asked by an opposition Member, Mr Junqueras. Officers: Are you going to protect them, yes or no? Census: Do they already have it, yes or no? Cost: How much is it going to cost? Will we have to find out later, through the sentences? Look, Mr Junqueras, you tell me about responsibility, that you want more responsibility to act responsibly. Did you feel responsible for what you did yesterday and today? Did you feel responsible for the image that you have given during the two days that we have had in this Parliament? Does that seem to you to be responsible? Is it your responsibility that Members of this Parliament be deprived of their rights because they think differently than you think? Does that seem to you to be responsible, Mr. Junqueras? I insist, if you want to advance an exclusive... it's no exclusive, you're already informed. You know that the referendum law has been suspended by the Constitutional Court [[applause]] That information has it. But it is no surprise, you already knew it, you knew it, because you know that the rule of law works, fortunately, in any democracy. Mr Junqueras, you have gone to the Constitutional Court when you are interested, you have gone to the Constitutional Court; as a government, as members of Junts pel Yes you have resorted to that Constitutional Court when you are interested. What happens, that there are times when sentences, therefore, do not interest them, and then it is the evil politicized constitutional. What have you done to change the Constitutional Court all this time? What have you done to change the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia? Absolutely nothing, because you, when the judges give you the reason, seem to them to be the most neutral courts; but when you say what you don't want to hear, then it's the evil Constitutional Court. Look, Mr Junqueras, not only because the Constitutional Court has just suspended the shorter law of the last years of this Parliament, but simply because you know you can't do it, because you have nothing done, because you have done nothing all this time. Well, they did: what they have done has been to warm up society, Mr Junqueras; what they have done has been chryspation; what they have done has been to see in this Parliament today that people we think differently, from the left, to the centre, to the right, we agree. And the biggest failure of a government is to agree on the whole opposition, and you have agreed on the whole opposition. But not to talk about health, not to talk about education, not to talk about any of the real concerns of Catalans: you have agreed to talk about the basic principle that governs in any parliamentary chamber, which is democracy. And you, with your attitude, have joined the democrats of this Parliament, and we have forgotten for a moment whether we were called Citizens, PP, Podemos or Socialist Party; that did not matter during that time, because the only thing that has joined us during those moments, and that I hope that one of us from here on in has been democracy, has been to defend the rights of all Catalans. And that is above red, orange, blue or purple, and that has been shown in this Parliament. And that was because of the attitude you have shown. You've been here ten_minutes talking about attitude..., of a series of concepts that are interesting; I'll be delighted that one day you'll give me a lecture, and of course I'll learn a lot and take note. But I am asking you parliamentary questions in a session, an inquiry, and you have the ability not to answer me any questions. He's got another chance, five more minutes of questioning. And of course I'm convinced he won't answer me, because we already know him. But please make an effort and answer us to three very clear questions, as I said to you: census, officials and referendum cost. Have the courage, please, even if it is in, already, the last fulls of this legislature, even if it is in the last collections remaining from this legislature in Parliament, have the courage, for once, Mr Junqueras, to answer the questions of the opposition. Because if you do not answer the opposition's questions it will be clear what your answer is, because sometimes silences speak more than words. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.234.0	Thank you, Congressman. The words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Oriol Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.235.0	Bona takes another time. I don't know if I've interpreted it correctly, and if my interpretation isn't correct, I'm already apologizing to it beforehand, huh? But it seemed to me that at some point I was trying to appeal to my heart, wasn't it? "Be brave," she said, "or at some other time I was trying to appeal to you, making a lever on my vanity," she would come to a conference with you and learn many things. And at some other point it seemed to me that the ugly one was threatening to tell me, "And you'll have to pay..., and I don't know what. No, no... go, no such calls, let's say, or no such references or attempts to provoke in me some kind of reaction that you're out of place..., I'll tell you that I'll make sure it's not produced, let's say, huh? And, therefore, that's an effort, as long as you accuse me of being gorgeous as you accuse me of being a coward. All in all, let's say, is not part of my political responsibility, which is precisely to guarantee the welfare of the citizens – of the officials, of those who are not working, of everyone – and, therefore, to guarantee their rights to the maximum. And all that we do, everything, everything is aimed precisely at protecting our rights, at giving them more opportunities, to have a better future, to guarantee equal opportunities in the joint venture of our society and, as far as possible, with all the modesty that characterizes us, I hope, but also with all firmness and with all compromise, to achieve that this is going to happen in the world if it were possible, isn't it? And where you're at our abast. Therefore, we will certainly protect everyone's rights. Actually, all we do is protect everyone's rights. Just so that for us the opinion of the citizens is so relevant... the citizens are so relevant that their opinion is what we want to be able to listen to in a reference. If your opinion is relevant to us, it's because these cities are relevant to us. I hope that the citizens understand that those who do all we can to listen to them, therefore, we have a higher consideration than those who do not do everything possible to listen to them; it is more, that they do everything possible because they cannot express themselves and cannot express their will. Therefore, with all the good will of the world, as always, we try to protect everyone's rights and guarantee everyone's opportunities. We do it, as always; I mean, with the same instruments. You asked me: "How will you do that? So, listen, as always, as is done in any other types of electoral consultation. And our intention, precisely, is to do so as in any other election consultation because we are especially guaranteed. And we know that there will be a lot of crossings and there will be a lot of difficulties, because they will put them on us every day, as they always do, let's just say it, right? But at the same time we would also try to overcome them all. And finally, a reflection of personal character, let's say, because the moment I was asking about my future, it seemed to me to hear it... I wanted to do the following consideration. With regard to the country, respect for society, respect for the citizens, I am soc absolutely irrelevant; in any case I hope to be relevant respect for myself, respect for my family environment, but do not respect the country. Therefore, whatever my future political function is, it has no real relevance. And it's not a matter that worries me, neither mass nor people; I don't worry. And, it's more, I'm absolutely convinced, and I think it's a fate that's like this, that the day I don't devote myself to politics, so no one's gonna miss me. I'm sure you'll probably be the least I can find. Which I'll appreciate very much, let's say it, because it will allow me to engage in other activities with much more tranquillity, let's say it. No, no one will find me missing, because fortunately, in this country, and I am sure that in the field you represent, there are many people much more prepared than I to take responsibility for the future. And, therefore, any one of them will do much better than I did. I will do everything I can, always with the best attitude, always with the most respectable attitude possible towards everyone, always. And, in any case, listen, in this country there are many people who fortunately will have the opportunity to decide on their future, and any of them, and any of those who at this time choose not to participate in it, for the reason that it is, let's tell us, therefore, will also have the opportunity to decide. As Mr. Pedret said before, who now knows it's hard for me, the majority are circumstantial, certainly, and minorities too, and political options, and ideologicals, and state structures, and states, and borders, as history has done. It seems to me that we are especially conscious and with all modesty try to make our best contribution. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.236.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Asking the Government about the school model]] [[300-00204/11]] The new point on the agenda is the question to the government about the school model. The question was made, made by Mrs Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.237.0	Well, thank you, Vice President. Consellera Ponsati... Good night to everyone. It's a little strange, the truth, at these hours, so, talking about second things, right? But before I do, I'd like to say, because there are a few days left for the official engineer..., to wish for a good start in the course of the more than a million and a half students who will start the course on their own Sunday and also the master, who are already preparing a few days ago. We will begin the course with 2,700 new students and 5,500 more teachers than the past course, which we have already said when it was agreed with the unions, because, unfortunately, we must say that, unlike what had been granted, eight hundred teachers destined for replacements have not all started on 1 September. And, if not, that they ask, therefore, many of the people who are forced to prepare classes in question of days. And it is again a course that begins with assumptions that, far from being the most social, go so far as to meet the 6_percent of GDP target that the LEC envisages, so they keep education in this underfunded country, at the expense of the OECD countries and still a lot of the 2010 assumptions. And, let's just say it all, let's start the course, too, with too many dues hanging from the department. It will be a course without the programs of inclusion and equity that had characterized years of government of understanding and that had encouraged equal opportunities, for example, aid for the acquisition of textbooks, educational plans of around; a course where the Government will keep without resolving lacks of infrastructures and facilities of centers – we remember that still more than a thousand barracks in Catalonia, that can be joined, remember it, also, various classrooms; that eighty-three of these centers, so neither three, nor four, nor five, but eighty-three, are entirely in barracks; that it is still developing without advertising, also, that many of these centers, so far as to guarantee an important sense of government including, but not enough, a sense of government, but rather a simple, municipal course. In short, with deia, mass of pending department deures. But I will already focus on the subject that is now the subject of this inquiry, the model of the school institutes. Surely he knows the history, the republic origin of the school institutes: on the 3rd of February of the 32nd, therefore, eighty-five years ago, the Palau del Governador of the Ciutadella park first collia a_sixteen students of the school institute of the Generalitat of Catalonia. Before, on October 31, the Minister of Public Education and Fine Arts, the Catalan Marcel·lí Domingo, had authorized the Generality to organize, in Barcelona, a school with the character of pedagogical essay. And that same month, the Catalan government promulgated the decree of creation of the first secondary teaching center born to the emperor of political autonomy assumed in the republican era. And among the educational and organizational aspects of the institution were complete co-education, the use of català as basic language, secularism in theory, in costumes, the suppression of qualifications, and, lastly, many other themes; among other things, the coordinated continuity between primary and secondary education. But a lot of time had to pass, there had to be a war, which began seven years later, there had to be a dictatorship and also the years of the Pujol and Convergence Government, because at the end, in the age of the Governing Council, the LEC, approved in Parliament in 2009, allowed, again, in its article 75, the creation of this mode of public education establishment, which integrates in a single center the levels of childhood and primary education and compulsory secondary education, and which recovered the best pedagogical tradition, begun eighty years earlier. Nevertheless, today, the Catalan education system has so many schools, twelve of which became operational in the 2010-2011 school year, and six more in the 2011-2012 school year, and some others, it is true, have been running counter to or despite the lack of political will of the Administration, converging on the last few days. But what is clear is that, on the margins of history, of symbolism, between which, so obviously, I lean, we are talking about a model that, making possible this pedagogical continuity between childhood and primary and secondary, is very positive to address not a few educational challenges that we have at these times and that I would like to detail. Why do we defend and believe that we should promote this model to the public as well? First, for its pedagogical model, which allows to reduce the negative impact of the changes that supposes this transition from primary to secondary, which is still a critical moment for most students that legislators have to take into account. And in a few days, then, we will see as thousands of children, who are in primary school, who are still children, twelve years old, so they will start studying in another secondary school, and they will do so without knowledge of the surroundings, in a less protected environment, who are accustomed to generating less personal security, who has normally accompanied a downgrading of school income, without the affectionate links they have with teachers, with the educational community, with different times, with no food, nor with any help linked to this service, with change in tutoring, in the family-professsor relationship, with a more academic and more formal contact; in short, also, with a different academic demand in the field. And these changes should be taken into account especially in the case of students with special difficulties in the changes, since this transition can actually lead to a deeper break; for example, profiles that are characterized by expected behavioral problems, poor academic preparation, lack of family support and disadvantaged socio-economic contexts. On the other hand, if we have, as we have at these times, the problem of massiveization at secondary level, for the demographic boom, lack of centres, insufficient public offer, why not take advantage of this demographic context, counsel, to push public school institutes where circumstances advise me? Why don't we turn this deficit into an opportunity to promote this model? We know that from now on we will have full primary and empty institutes again, because this is the cycle, but this model of school institutes would precisely allow us to regulate these flows between primary and secondary. I want to stress that it is not only a matter of responding to a programming or temporary schooling problem, but of taking advantage of this opportunity to promote a very positive model. Thirdly, the educational continuity of the school seems to us to make a decisive contribution to reducing absenteeism, significantly improving the possibility of not premature abandonment of studies, and, as studied, also, that in the early years of the ESO they can be hard, not only for the adaptation to the change that he was commenting on but also for the settling, bullying phenomena that are produced more intensely in these early years and that worry especially about the development of the studenthood. And in these cases, this pedagogical continuity, or in its case an enhancement of the coordination between primary and secondary, has proved very useful. Now, as I said, until today, we have very few centers with these characteristics, Convergence had never believed, perhaps because they assimilated the schools to a political left proposal or because it was not interesting, and, in fact, they have donated the skeleton, while, on the other hand, most private and concerted centers are integral centers between children and primary and secondary, and they have maintained and enhanced them through concerts. Those differences that, if we were misguided, would think they're not random. And, counsel, I want to ask you directly: can we count on your commitment to promote this model of education also in public centers? I imagine you'll tell me that the next course, which is very few days away from being officially inaugurated, will start with a few new school institutes, but all of them are socially complex. And we obviously do not oppose this creation, on the contrary, but a school is not just that, and we fear, counsel, that the government to which it has integrated..., a certain stigmatizing will, since they have validated this model only in certain circumstances, when years ago we asked for the impulse of land and they are not doing so. And you can tell me that you may have done what established the criteria of school programming in the course that we are starting, that the department, therefore, agreed a few months ago with the Federation of Municipalities, the Association of Municipalities, but also, I want to say, not with the educational community nor with these parliamentary groups, where schools are provided exclusively in these complex environments from the sociocultural point of view where it is necessary to strengthen the continuity between primary and secondary. But I want to remind you, too, that the priority or demand of the municipalities was to extend this model even further, and therefore not just with countertops as it defended the department. Or to the small municipalities with two primary lines in a center and which is not equipped with secondary. Why this restriction? In less populated environments too much sense to push this model, which would allow many students of small municipalities not to move around to study secondary education in other longer-distance areas. And, obviously, relying on the will of the local administration, we defended as the government of key proximity in decision making in school programming. In short, counselor, let us celebrate the creation of our school institutes, but we urge the Government and you to give serious reflection on this model, which goes further, to believe it to promote the good of public education in this country. Why, for example, do not donate green light to the school institute of Martinet, or Pinetons, to Cerdanyola, or to the Mediterranean School of Viladecans, to Polinyà, to Montgat, to Ripollet, other existing requests to the territories of years ago, which struggle to convert their school into school institutes. Who are the reasons for this gang lockup? And what scares them? Let's hope you don't do the private competition, let's hope so, that's not it. And let me remind you that there are countries with Finland, known for their excellent educational results, which have integrated systems that could correspond or be considered proper to those of school institutes. Therefore, counsel, we ask you to remain brave, to give answers to these requests of the territory. We know you have people on your team with a great knowledge, who believe in the model, study for themselves, but they do this quality jump and take advantage of these complicitys to boost and promote this model also in public school. And I would leave, then, some other considerations and questions for the second time. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.238.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The word has the Counselor of Teaching, Mrs. Clara Ponsatí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.239.0	Good night. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mrs. Niubó, thank you for reminding us of the school model. In my case, I thank you for making the historic rest so I can get rid of it. Anyway, in my case, let's just say, I have a lot of the model and history here because my mother was a high school student and my avi, a teacher. So, in this case, it's a story I know from the first hand. And as I know first-hand, I know that the school institute of the Republic has had children since eleven years. Just a note. Therefore, it is true, the school institute, the school institutes – there were a few – they were a shining experience of our pedagogical history, and everyone who had an interaction, who went there, who saw them, who saw them, never forgot them, because I did not always hear them speak as an extraordinary memory; they are, indeed, an icon of our pedagogical imagination. And, therefore, it is fantastic that when we approved..., when this Parliament approved the Catalonian Education Law, by consensus, which actually promoted a councillor from which the PSC was then – from which the PSC was then; this councillor was also here yesterday, but he was higher... – when we approved this law, the term "school institute" was re-enacted, but the model reflected in our School Education Law is not the same model as the school institute we had here in the park in 32. Simply, for historical reasons. The school institute that recedes the LEC are integrated schools, in which there is primary and secondary. And, indeed, I share that it is a model that can be excellent and some countries that have an insurmountable educational trajectory the fan serve, not just Finland. Lithuania, Denmark, Sweden, Iceland, Norway, all of these serve the integrated school model, which in our law goes school, which is not the school institute of the park. But there are also countries that do not have an integrated school model and that also have an excellent educational system, from which we can also learn many lessons. And these countries include, so, Germany, Belgium, Holland, Austria, the United Kingdom, Switzerland. All have for and against, advantages and drawbacks, but it is obvious that all these countries have excellent choices and that a priori, that the system is integrated or separate, is not defined because the school is better or worse. Therefore, I believe that this Parliament has done very well to admit the integrated primary and secondary school system, as a possibility that our law accepts, and recognizes that in some cases it is perfectly appropriate to push it, but the law did not legislate that all education has to be in an integrated system. And the moment we were explaining the law, we had a system that wasn't integrated. And today we have – forgive me but correct it – this year, twenty-five schools, which is a very small name in relation to the total number of centers we have in the public education system. It's true– it's true. Do you ask me to make a general policy of directing and accelerating the creation of school institutes? Is that what you're proposing? The cases that we have are of a great variety, because some of these twenty-five school institutes came out of schools that came..., that had been private and became public – the schools of Cepepc –, and this is a group of the school institutes that we have. And others, yes, indeed, are school institutes that have been created for the fusion of primary schools with secondary schools. And they have very different characteristics. He studied their assessment agency, together with the ICE of the Autonomous Region, and came to the conclusion that, effectively, they could have a great role in the education of this country whenever some conditions are complicated. And who are the conditions? So let the pedagogical team really be an integrated pedagogical team. And when we have a system where there are primary schools with primary teachers, and secondary schools with secondary teachers – which are different communities; neither better nor worse, different – take a few schools and an institute and say: "Now you will be a school... Forgive me, it doesn't seem to me that this is doing good educational policy – it doesn't seem to me. I believe that if we have something later on in education policy it is that dirigisme does not work, that we have to trust the educational community and the families. Obviously we have to make decisions and we have to take priorities – obviously – but, in any case, decide that now the rule must be the rule of schools in a general way, I would seem totally inadequate. In Barcelona, this year, there are three school institutes. And it's true, schools are being set up around the most complex, because it actually seemed like a good way to address very complex school situations – it's true. And it is true that there are many requests in the territory that we create school institutes that continue to give primary schools. But we are still responsible: that some families of a territory, who have educated their children with great satisfaction to a primary school..., does not give them the right to have the Government of Catalonia make them, each of them, a school. This can't be done in a general way. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.240.0	Thank you, Counsellor Ponsati. I've got the word "Miss Niubó."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.241.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. No, the truth is, I'm not asking you, we're not asking you to do an indiscriminate policy of setting up schools where it's not necessary or convenient. What I am saying is that they do not deny the possibilities of the requests of the territory where there are many centers that actually want to become a school, because they did ask and need, and you deny them the possibility that they do give to the concerta. And that's historical. We are saying: "I also give the opportunity to create and promote schools to the public. That's what we're asking for. [[Greetings.]] But in order to recover the thread, I would say that the challenges associated with the transition between primary education and secondary education we are talking about mean that they must not only be faced by the school institutes, but also, obviously, by the primary and secondary centres working in the same territory. And, in this sense, I would like to stress the problems that also exist in many points of the school map: the lack of territorial coordination, the lack of information between this primary and secondary. And here I am referring to the fact that the information normally developed by primary schools does not usually take into account secondary education – therefore, they get used to starting from scratch – and, when there are meetings, organisation, it puts much more emphasis on organizational aspects and not so much on pedagogics, and it cannot be said that this coordination is limited, for example, to a meeting between primary and primary education systems, a few months before the stage change. It seems to me that this is insufficient. Another element – we understand that it has to do with the identity and character of the same centre – is that there is a lack of knowledge, in many cases, of the centre project on the part of the community, and also on the part of the faculty. And we understand that this ends up creating a lack of connection to the educational project, which is not positive. For what it does to discontinuities in the curriculum and in teaching methods, it could also be said that the different formation and trajectory of the faculty before each stage assumes a problem and would want to talk. In relation to the curricular and methodological dimensions, the lack of tutorial and orientation for academic development, in order to avoid precisely that this risk of school failure can translate into the risk of abandonment, a process that ended evident in the academic divide. Also, highlight the family's involvement. In cases where the family is not actively involved, problems and difficulties increase. Finally, I should also like to refer to the problems of equity, which affect particularly socio-economically disadvantaged groups. But, for all intents and purposes, we think it is essential to improve this curriculum and methodological coordination, the academic orientation and the involvement of families. And we'd like to know if you also share these considerations. We are aware, as I said, that there are questions that raise this model that they may be concerned about – the differences between primary and secondary school teachers, for example – but I would like to remind you that when ESO was implanted it also happened that many teachers were integrated, until then, at secondary school, and there was a solution. And, therefore, what I'm saying is that now that the faculty, both primary and secondary, finish college with a degree title, maybe in this context it's possible to think or study a salary equalization. But I put it on the mark of a dialogue with the unions, with the educational community. It's possible to plant it, understand. And, therefore, what we ask of him is that they take advantage of the opportunities that exist, that they explore the paths that we know can lead to a better education, as I said, in public education. Another issue to take into account is the necessary available land. We know that in a school it requires fifteen_thousand_metres_squares; in an institute, deu_thousand. And, therefore, we understand that this is also a consideration to be taken into account. But, finally, we did want to ask him if there is a study or evaluation of the functioning of the results of the existing centres until that moment. If that's what it is, if they think they're going to introduce him to Parliament or if... well, that would be nice to know. Why haven't the centres that have integrated, integrated, created so far, really developed reference innovation centres? Looks like you're doing it. On the other hand, taking into account the desirability of having zones of influence that allow the coordination of primary education schools and secondary schools, do they think forward in the plans of formation of educational zones, therefore, plans of joint and face-to-face formation of teachers between these zones? And so, ultimately, if you share this convenience and opportunity to promote and promote this model of school primarily to public educational centres during this term, it is through new creation centres or to promote mergers or integrations. Obviously, where the circumstances advise me. We are not asking them to do so, as you can imagine, where there is no such demand, but where there is this petition and where circumstances really recommend it. And, therefore, we ask him if he is committed to promoting and facilitating this implementation of this model, beyond the programming criteria that were agreed the year before with the municipalities, and to enable, obviously, also a presuppositional game to this effect, in the proper exercises. And it will work to improve and strengthen, at least, coordination between primary and secondary, to reduce the problems resulting from this transition. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.242.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.243.0	Thank you, Mrs. Niubó. Do you know what's going on? That in this education, when we put ourselves in earnest we always agree. That's what's going on. And then, trying to debate parliamentarians about a thing that's enough to run first, to look at the details, and to... Now you say to me: "But how come they don't do more school institutes where it is justified? Look, if we haven't done any more, it's because it wasn't justified or because the department, assessing it, according to the meetings, according to the requests of other territories... Because, of course, when there's a demand in a territory, there's also requests in the territory here. There is an institute that retreats students from various populations. There's a school that wants to be brought to him by his institute... It's complex – it's complex, huh? So, if we put ourselves in a row first... I'm sorry, I don't think this Parliament is the right place to discuss whether we should set up a school in the East Valley or the Penedes, huh? So, with all the modesty... – and with all the modesty – I'm sorry, I see that I'm saying something that they just didn't like – I'm sorry –, with all the modesty, at these hours of the night, this counselor is not seeing with heart – I'm telling you with all the frankness, huh? – to discuss concrete cases of school institutes. I don't see myself in color. I don't see myself in color, ma'am. [[Funnel veils]] , from Ciutadans – forgive me – I don't see it with color. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.244.0	It's the Socialist Party, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.245.0	What's going on?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.246.0	It's Mrs. Niubo, of the Socialist Party. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.247.0	Yes, no, no... but this lady was making me some skirmishes that I didn't understand, forgive – forgive. [[Widow's remorse.]] Look, you're still making skirmishes, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm sorry – I'm sorry. I'm having a hard time, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.248.0	It refers to Mrs. Sierra, Mrs. Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.249.0	Okay. So..., is it if you ask me: "Do you agree that we need to promote more coordination of the territory? Of course, yes; but there is, and my department is working on it. And there is one thing that is very important: do we believe in the autonomy of the centers or do we not believe in them? He's also in Catalonia's Education Law, huh? I don't believe in driving, I don't believe it – I don't believe it. And school planning... we have reached a pact with the Federation of Municipalities and the Catalan Association of Municipalities. That's never happened before. We have, we respect it – we respect it. And if you and I are talking about education... it's that we don't disagree! Follow me, it's just... it's hard, huh? Because I already know that you have to oppose it, but on this subject, it will cost you a little, because we agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.250.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about the crisis in the fruit sector]] [[300-00205/11]] The aim of the agenda is to ask the Government about the crisis in the fruit sector presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it, has the word Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.251.0	Thank you, President. Councillor..., Councillors, members of the Government... – isn't there any? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Members of the government..., pardon, of the department. It is that I always look up to greet the members of the department, who always accompany us, but at these hours..., the apology, I would just miss. Members, Members – you see, now you are – members of the department that accompanies us..., to explain the Socialist Group's inquiry into the crisis of prices, the crisis, for different reasons – that we will try to break up here and try to find some solutions – of the fruit sector that is accumulating from the past few years. And, obviously, we also believe that it is a strange day, a different day; surely it would have been good to be able to reflect on it another day and in some other hours, but I believe that it is also important to reflect on what is happening in the country, on those issues that affect the country's economy in a very important way, on those issues that affect the territory, the environment in a very important way, and that in certain regions, in certain rural areas, therefore, they are a fundamental pillar of the economic and social development of many citizens. We are very concerned, as we were also speaking a few days ago on some of these major festivals where he was also very concerned about the fruit, very concerned about the situation of the crisis of the fruit, the fruit sector, the economic pesso that it has, the repercussions it has and, above all, because it was accentuated a year ago. We have already come from years of changes in the economic model, of economic crisis, of rising production costs, of great difficulties for the small entrepreneurs of this country, of the medium-sized farmers, of ramaders, but also of other sectors of the economy, who have serious difficulties to pull forward, serious difficulties to be able to compete in costs, to be able to compete in innovation, to be efficient to produce, and this makes the name of entrepreneurs, of small producers disappear from little to no avail. And where does that affect me most? So, obviously, to the smaller towns, to the larger towns, to the towns where there is less infrastructure. And what's going on out there? Where there are fewer people, there are fewer companies and there are fewer infrastructure, because there is also less demand. Therefore, I believe that it is a vicious circle that we must try to break it, that we must try to compensate it. It has no easy solution and therefore we come here to say: « Listen, the food industry makes 99,000_million euros a year. The basis of this food industry is obviously the primary sector, and in this case the fruit sector: fifty thousand hectares of fruit, two thousand workers. We are one of the most competitive territories in the production and sale of European artefacts, something that people surely do not know: one of the places in Europe where it produces more fruit, where we are more competitive, where we are more efficient and, therefore, where it has innovated more, also, therefore, it is Catalonia, between Catalonia the regions of Lleida, as can also be to a lesser extent the Aragó, Múrcia, Extremadura and outside the State, as is also Italy, as is France, as is Greece. Therefore, we come to talk about pressecs, nectarines, apple and pear, which is 90_percent of the fruit production that we produce here. And of this percentage, 82_per_cent is produced in Lleida's districts, where there have been mobilizations, where there have been tractors, where some have done Lleida in Barcelona, others have wanted to do in Madrid; finally, they have also done in Catalonia. I think it is important that Parliament, the Councillor, the Members..., the Parliament says: "Listen, that we are with the sector – this is free, therefore, that we are with the sector –, "we are with agriculture, with ramaderia; we are with the fruit sector, because of its import into Catalonia, that we collect the mobilizations and requests made by its mayors, the agricultural unions, the individual producers..., that we are at their side. And from here we say that there are no sensible solutions but that we have to put ourselves to work, that we have to put thread to the needle, with more and better resources. We have differences at the level of how to focus the future policy of Catalonia, but one thing that is the skills in agriculture we already have. Therefore, if you want to follow the European Union, you will have to go to the door of the European Union. Therefore, we can take responsibility, keep very clear at short notice..., see how we try to alleviate the crisis that is looming at these times, how we try to withstand the price of fruit, how we try to fight against the abuses of power of the great distribution, how we try to compensate for the increase in costs of production of energy, of labor... So, as we help, as we give more and better infrastructure. Today, the one that is not effective in producing, the one that is not able to produce more and better with less resources, has no future. Therefore, we here are where we need to help, and we will not do so if we do not coordinate the Government of the country with the Government of the State, with the responsibilities it can have, with the European Union. The European Union has already said: "The future of the fruit sector in Europe passes because it is a competitive and market-oriented sector. Therefore, you compete in the market. Parentheses: the raw materials and the food have always been a reason for speculation, a reason for price oscillations and, therefore, it is very important a country that has enough sovereignty, that has enough stability of prices, precisely because people have food with quality, with quantity, at affordable prices and that producers can earn a living. The farm income, Counselor, knows that it's gone further down. Now he's gonna tell me that this 2016_has gone down a little bit, but in any case, the last few years have gone down a lot. Avoid imbalances in the sector. Another strategic line in Europe that must be ours is to compensate for the increase in production costs, to compensate for environmental costs and lack of water, and to avoid the price gap for fruit. It does not stop lowering the price that the producer rep, the payment, for the fruit they see and, in change, the price of sale is maintained or increased. And, obviously, what we see, how do we make the difference between what I say and the price of sale to the malls. Therefore, we believe that they are the challenges of the future: to improve, to increase the consumption of fruit between the citizens and, then, obviously, more and better techniques of cultivation so as to be more efficient, as we say. In this line we believe – we have already said it, I said it personally, I think I say it here another time – that we have a problem: there have been withdrawals and currents on behalf of the European Union. It is late and bad and therefore we need to move forward these withdrawals, improve the withdrawals. They are pale effects of regulation of the market, of the oscillations of the market, but if they arrive late they do not have the desired effects. Therefore, it is necessary to improve the activities of the European Union, as withdrawals are better and better. Cal, obviously... but these are palliative measures. And then we have to plan the sector better. Does everyone have to do everything in Catalonia? So, no. Each territory must specialize in what can be done well and which can be competitive. Citrics will be made there, fruit will also be made in places that are competitive and, obviously, in other productive sectors of the Catalan economy, so they will be made there where they have specialised, where they have infrastructure, where they have the skilled work that they can carry out in these sectors. Therefore, what we need is to see among the fruit sector, how many hectares, what varieties, what crops, what technologies, what research centres we are putting them around so that they can precisely master this innovation necessary for the fruit sector. I therefore believe that we also need to work very hard on this line: to take practical measures for as long as we are; also on the part of the Government of the Generality, what resources can be put in place; to improve controls to prevent the abuse of the food chain. Every time we see big distributors, big commercial surfaces have more and more power. So we need to take over, or legislate or actually inspect, control and make it complete... and if we need to punish the cheater, the cheater. It's not protecting or intervening the market. It is to ensure that consumer standards are met. It is to ensure that the standards of free competition are met. It is to ensure that it is paid, that there is no morosity and, therefore, that it is paid, that it is not coming for under cost, precisely to infuse the small producer or to infuse the competition. That's what it is. He's done his whole life, and so the public powers are the ones that need to get old because that's not happening. Finally, I would like to say that, following the intervention of the Socialist Group, we would like to add the proposals of the House, but we believe that this is not possible, as we say, without a coordinated task between the different public administrations, between the different territories. It is not possible to go to Europe to ask for solutions, tailor-made for each territory. One sector has to look for complicity with fruit producing territories, and here is where Catalonia can flag this with fruit producing territories of Italy, France, Greece, as I say, which are the main producers. We say: "We want concrete measures and we want structural measures. Europe has an important sector, which exports a lot, and since two are going to war, which is dean of European Union and Russia, a third one has been revere, which has been, for geopolitical reasons, the fruit sector; it has been revere the worst consequences. Therefore, this also has to be explained and compensatory measures called for. In any case, on the next occasion, I will make some of the proposals that we believe should be pushed forward. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.252.0	Thank you, Mr. Ordeig. Next is the words of Mrs Meritxell Serret, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fishing and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.253.0	Thank you, President. Members, councillor, thanks for accompanying us in this inquiry and at these hours, especially – and thanks for the water. Member, once again to thank, as God, the opportunity to bring here to the plenary of this Parliament the debate around a sector that we have always defended from this government, and above all from this agricultural sector, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food, which is the production of food, which is the agricultural sector, which is the primary sector, the basis of the economy. We have always said this: it is strategic for the country, it is strategic in many ways, because it is a socio-economic engine – not to say, for the 90_percent of the territory–, plus it is the basis of environmental sustainability, because it also manages all this territory, and more provides us with a basic need of all the people that are food. Therefore, thanks for bringing these issues here and, above all, in the current context, there is a sector that is also strategic, as you said, for our country, such as the fruit production sector, specifically for a territory that focuses, above all, on the great production that we are doing here in the country, on the lands of the Lleida plain, on the Lands of Ponent, and that has suffered, as you have said, repeatedly since 2014, with the Russian veto, years ago they have been patenting crisis of prices, crisis of market disturbance, with excess of punctual production, and that they have done, therefore, this, which is speculated and that the price of producers or falls much or that even sometimes is not so fixed. So, it's a problem, as you said, after all these years, and we've seen it, and we've also made it clear from the department, and we've talked to the same sector. It is a problem that did arise at a point in time, in 2014, with the Russian veto, but to these heights we can already say that every time is more structural. And it's more structural, too, because the geopolitical conditions that caused this crisis are not only not changing but have also worsened. In fact, the evidence of the crisis of price has been from July when the Eurasia Customs Union closed the market of the pinyol fruit here and the markets of Belarus, which was one of the main destinations these past years. And that, obviously, was also done by the Russian government's ancestry. Therefore, it is a geopolitical problem, yes, and it has become structural. Since we started counseling, already the generation of 2016, we have been aware of the problems of the fruit sector. You said, yes, the data from the 2016 farm income tells us that maybe the 2016 campaign was a relief point, a little, respect the previous years, but it came back to fall, and it was a relief point that didn't mean it could recover the finances of the farms. Therefore, we are in a difficult problem, not just because we are repeating these price crises, but because the financial situation of many farms is already in a very complex situation. We have also come from a number of years, as you have recalled, that we had made and promoted investments, that we had made varietal conversion plans, but that we had done without planning, that we had certainly done, without a good market orientation, and now we find ourselves with exploitation that during these years they have made important investments, with the inability not only to make those investments but, above all, to see a future that is a little clear to the sector, because, there is a insistence, what we need is to keep farms in the territory and that this sector that is basic and strategic continues. So since the first moment we've been working on this advice, and we've done it with some very clear visions. First, it is important to be very aware of the importance of economics and socio-economics, but also of the importance that it has from the point of view of markets, because, as you said, it is an export sector: the Catalan fruit sector is one of the main suppliers of European and international markets in fruit, and specifically in the fruit of pinyol. That means that, as you pointed out, we can't look at the melic, we can't just think about what's going on in Catalonia. And that's what we've always had from the generality and the department. This is why we are part of AREFLH, this Association of European Fruit Regions, Alegums and Hortalisses, and since the first moment we have always worked a lot of rape with the other regions here, and specifically with Aragó, with whom we form this – almost, right? – economic unit for what makes the fruit of pinyol. And those days, both in the face of this one-time crisis this summer, we've been working rape rape with the government of Aragó, as well as the same sector, when it showed up, it did it together. Therefore, this vision of economic unity, of the need to work and coordinate all European producers of fruit in the face of global markets – we take it into account, they are global markets – is very clear. And we're also doing it these same days, this week, when the white book of the CMO of fruit is being discussed, huh? , and European Union vegetables, where we are also participating, through AREFLH, to aim to better orient all these policies, all these European regulations that help us to orient better what are the productions in these European markets, in which it is also contemplating how some of these mechanisms work, such as withdrawals, which is what has been used in the past few years. In these withdrawal mechanisms and other market regulation mechanisms, if there is any proposal that we have made, as long as we have debated the reform of the CAP as now, in the White Paper of the COM, it is better, that we can articulate better all these mechanisms than the COM back to the fruit sector, vegetables, in this sense– there is also the part of the time, but here we focus above all on fruit– and, therefore, we must see how they are ways of infusing to the European Union in order to be able to better agree with the needs and this vision and the Mediterranean perspective that we have always claimed to European policies and that, unfortunately, to give years has not always been able to fail and to say that we have failed. Therefore, we are clear about these joint strategies, we are clear about this European vision with a global perspective, about global markets, and above all we are very clear that this work, all this work, we have to do with this common vision with other institutions and governments from other regions and countries, but also with the sector. And it is together with the sector that we have promoted, since we are in the Council, both the demands of these measures of markets and of exceptional withdrawals in the Russian veto, through AREFLH, to reach the European Union, and also directly to the ministries, because, obviously, while we are part of Spain, it is the Spanish State, which has intended to affect Europe. We've increased the presumption of those fruit withdrawals that were destined for..., in the form of free food for the food bank. We have pushed a lot more of a phone book, which is the Code of good business practices, to help these positive synergies that need to be in the value chain. Because, yes, there are sometimes these bad relationships, but all of them are necessary, we need a well-integrated value chain that works in position and with clear standards and transparency, and here we are also pushing a technical commission. We have promoted a number of ways that the same sector has been demanding of us for years, such as economic circumstances. We've done the economic circumscription of the press and the nectarine, the apple and the pear. These economic circumstances must give the same sector this capacity for standard extension and self-regulation. I insist, the Administration – you said, there are some laws of the market – can not do according to what. Therefore, it is the same sector that needs to be self-regulated. We also created the Price Observer. Through this declaration of statistical interest, we have given it more strength. Now we're working with the sector so we can get it from reference. We created it, we're starting to collect data, we're getting this culture of better transparency because all together, sector and administration, we make a reference price observer who helps us give a more tool for this transparency and these good relationships in the agri-food value chain. We have also pushed a large demand from the same sector, with these marketing platforms, from the same cooperative sector, to jointly and orderly deal with the markets. We are also driving all that is innovation and transfer in the sector through the CAP, through these projects like Fruit Future or others. We're also promoting, in a nutshell, as you said, fruit consumption, we're campaigning a year back for promotion. But more than that, for the guany, isn't it? , for this course that we will start, 2017-2018, we have increased by 10_per_cent the premise for the fruit campaign to the schools, which is also a phonemental tool to educate citizens and our consumers, because it is also doing their own local fruit production, with the fruit of pinyol especially. But, I mean, this is all a package, it's an integral view. We need to push even more of these strategies, as you wish, huh? , integral and transversal and short, medium and long terms. Then, if we have a chance, because I'm running out... I'm going to talk more concretely about, I guess, what a situation we've found, who we're setting up in short, medium and long terms, that, as you said, and we've already advanced, we're already organizing a working group that will start acting on September 19th to put a thread to the needle in all of this. Thank you, and so far.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.254.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.255.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, I believe that many of the solutions to the fruit sector, precisely to stabilize prices, precisely to improve competitiveness, precisely to avoid abuses, can therefore be a test bench, or to put solutions on the table, precisely because we can apply them to other sectors to which they are also passing. Therefore, I believe that we must pose ourselves... as well as other sectors not related to agriculture, which obviously also have many oscillations and many problems. I don't know if you've seen it, but my company... must be that I bring them some boxes of fruit every season, and then I said to them, "Listen, if you want fruit, you have to be here listening, huh? I'll explain everything to you. [[Greetings.]] Then... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm telling you why, I'm telling you, she's even got me... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. Well, now we'll take care of the councillor, too, that Junts for the Yes will be wearing a fruit truck, for the Junts for the Yes MPs, to see if... [[The timer laughs. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Sure. It's a complicated day – it's a complicated day. It will allow me... and, Counselor, I wanted to say before, Counselor of Teaching, but I say it now. Because one of the proposals that we wanted to put on the table and that he said to me, I also thought about the agriculture counselor is the theme of the school fruit programme; it's very important. Because when we have to do pedagogy of the Mediterranean diet, of the benefits for salvation, one of the countries where we live the most, with a life expectancy greater than the whole world..., man, it's for the Mediterranean diet, while the eating habits, therefore, in certain circumstances..., we will have to make an effort to try to have good eating habits. We wanted to propose a 10-per-cent increase, but we believe... listen, if there's a day of fruit in school now, man, let's do more than one. Why, listen... And, if I can pay the Administration, fine, but if I can't pay the Administration, listen, I, one day a week, my children, fruit at the motel and head to school. And that's fine, because we're teaching not just healthy food, not just, obviously, fruit consumption, not just helping the country's producers either... I think we need to get out here. And we would also ask to extrapolate it to the institutes, to extend it to the institutes, to extend it to the universities, as we had at some point approved also, in hospitals and public administrations, to enhance the consumption of fruit. Therefore, go so far as to ask the young person, obviously, to extend this 10_per_cent, certainly not only with public assumption, that it can't do everything, but to try..., you can look for different formulas to try to increase the consumption of fruits. Concrete proposals. It seems to us that the group of experts they have made, and we would also ask that obviously the parliamentary groups, through this motion, but also later, we can bring our solutions to the Director General, because it is a matter of great concern to us, yes, it is a subject in which many companies, many producers, many pages are very concerned..., many mayors, and you know, they are very concerned, because they have asked a lot of producers and they have had to reinvent and change the sector, because they have not been able to cope with the situation we are living in. We believe that fiscal and financial measures are being cut down to try to help, so, through subsidies, through aid, these credits that will become..., that, with the difficulties of the liquidations that there are, obviously, many problems. Carences, subsidies, direct aid, through the Dun, for example, to those priority farms or those which precisely have encountered these problems. Measures to the State and the European Union, as we have commented. Millions in planning, that we understand that all this, obviously, the committee of experts..., seems perfect that they talk and that they can go with dues. The price observer might have to go feeding him data, getting better this... that there's a good transparency of prices, because maybe there's... the information he gives us about what the producer might not be accurate. What is the responsibility of the government, and we should do more, we should do better..., put more resources for control, inspection and sanctions on food chain abuses. It's very important. If the standards of the game are not clear and do not make it complete, there is not the necessary control, so obviously, what happens to us is what happens to us. And here it is where the government should act and it should do more, it could do more. Pressupost 2018, we'll also ask you, obviously, huh? As always, more money for the presupposition 2018; we already gave it to you in time – I don't know if we'll get there. And we also wanted to put on the table the possibility of making the organization... the interprofessional of the fruit, so as to secure in a table the different agents of the food chain. As we only have thirty seconds left and I think we agree on most things, only on the title of summary, what we would say is that we, the members of Parliament, like the Government..., who call us urgent measures, who call us an alert, who can do something immediately to try to stop the coup. Urgent measures, short-term, immediate measures and long-term measures to define model, planning. Call for urgent and long-term measures. Calen measures of the governments of the Generality, calen measures of the Government of the State, calen measures of the European Union, coordinated, eh? So we're clear where we're going. Some have already prayed; others, obviously, if we did well, will not be this their future, but it would be a very hard time for Catalonia, for the Catalan economy, for the territory, especially for the Lleida districts, as you have already said, and, therefore, the Parliament and the Government must say unequivocally that they are on the side of the agricultural sector, the branch and, in this case, the fruit sector. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.256.0	Thank you, Mr. Ordeig. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.257.0	Thank you, President. Thank you... congressman, you seem to have heard it, the Junts for the Yes, huh? They've begun to come. [[The councilwoman's laughing.]] For..., I have already commented that I would aim to explain very briefly what measures were being taken in this crisis, in some way, which has already shown us that we are in front of a structural problem for the Catalan fruit sector. I'm not going to insist on it concretely in all the timelines of all the steps we've been taking, especially since... in April we've already started, as God forbid, huh? To announce that this could happen, that we were... with the data we were counting on in the department and the sector, we might find ourselves in this situation. But, still, and to ask them, they did not just take into account the requests we made of withdrawals and others, of extensions of withdrawals. It was not until July when it became evident, as I say, this Russian veto, which is ugly effective from July 1st, from the borders of Belarus, has precipitated everything. From here, as we wish, huh? We have called for these withdrawal enlargements. We will ask in a coordinated way, Catalunya and Aragó, 40_million pounds. Finally, after managing through AREFLH with the sector, to Brussels; then again, no? , asking and pressing for the ministry to also raise demand, and finally, the ministry has also raised demand and we have managed, in prayer, that the European Commission has increased these withdrawals. This has slowed us down, but it won't be enough, we're aware. He didn't give us everything we needed... in one day he exhausted all the quota we had allocated, in only twenty-four hours, and of the twenty-thousands we had asked for from Catalonia, already twenty-four hours said. What we need is, first, better ability to predict these situations. Here we will have to make an effort, we have already said, all the Catalan administrations, but also from the other producing areas, because Europe has much more information, more up-to-date and more rigorous to be able to anticipate..., and the measures can be activated in time, as required in that first intervention. But not just. We need to see how we're stopping this impact right now on the farms, because, as you know, some are planning to fold, others may do it, but what we need is not to fold, especially when we're talking about young people, that there may have been some incorporation aid, when we're talking about farms that have made better plans and that are, right? We're trying to pull some inversions, and these professionals, we need to see how we keep them. Here, we have always said, we have the Catalan Institute of Finance at our disposal, and we want to accompany all these farms and we offer them, right? , through the regional offices, make this individual and case-by-case follow-up, to see how we can accompany these farms. The agricultural cooperatives are also offering themselves in this sense to make this follow-up. Therefore, sector and administration continue to work together and in a co-responsible manner, and we must continue to do so in our own months. But, as I said, there are some short-term measures, but we have to do this long and long-term. Control and inspection. It's obvious that control and inspection are important, but, as we said before, it's the same sector... and here we say it, huh? , we need to learn from other sectors, and therefore the same sector we also need to see as, through its organization, through its structure, with these working groups, with this work with experts..., we are able to improve these practices, better these systems in order to achieve quality. We say it very often when we talk to the same producers and the people in the sector: we have to sell..., we don't have to think so much about selling but about selling euros. In the end, what we want is to secure returns, to secure returns to the people, to the territories. So, controls and public inspection? Yeah. You don't do it here, do you? , to make another effort at the public resources available to us by the Generality, at the capacity we have now null and void, the Generality, to expand places, which is what we need to be able to give this response to requests for more inspection and more control to the point of sale or to the length of the chain. And, for the sake of the interprofessional demand for fruit, you know that we have the law and we're looking to bring the decree forward to make it happen too. In all this, however, I insist, what we want to do is to make a deep debate, a serious debate, through this group of experts, and of course that, predisposed to the fact that the committee and parliamentary groups can be aware of the outcome of these expert groups, and that you can be part of those reflections or analyses that are vague. We've already done these groups of experts in the mail sector. That was good. I'll give it to you, won't I? And if you want to explain, if you invite us, those conclusions. We're doing it with the hazelnut sector, we're doing it with the eco-friendly store. So, it's a dynamic of work that we think is positive and that we need to consolidate. Because, in the end, we are very clear that we are obviously doing everything in our hands, but what we want, above all, is also to convey the idea that we want a future for this primary sector; we know, too, how to build this future of the primary sector, with all the co-responsibility of the Administration with the sector, and that, as we have always said, many times, we want to take on all the responsibilities, but we also want to do it, as well, with all the skills and all the resources that the sector also deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.258.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Proposition of law of legal and founding transitionality of the republic]] [[202-00066/11]] I'm guessing the deadline for submitting papers is over and we're hoping they'll bring us... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah. I think everybody knows, but, yeah, we're waiting. The period of submission of papers to the Legal Transitional Law Proposition has ended, and we are therefore hoping that they will now bring the papers to us, to make photocopies and distribute them among all parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] Yes; therefore, we can continue with the inquiry. Okay. [[Widow's remorse.]] So, fem... wait, we're doing an inquiry... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Make a proposal, vote... let's continue with the inquiry, wait until we're done with the papers, hand them over... [[Pause. Benet Salellas and Vilar ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Salellas? [[Pause.]] Ah! They're already here. Inform them that papers have been submitted to the joint. And they tell me that the spokespersons of the different parliamentary groups already have these papers? [[Pause.]] So they have these items because they have been pre-distributed. And, therefore, we can proceed to the debate on the points of the joint. In accordance with Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, we shall proceed with the intervention of the parliamentary groups which have submitted reports. The parliamentary groups that have put forward the bill have given up this first intervention at this time. With regard to the papers submitted for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, does the word..., which representative of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia will take the word? [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Wait for us, then, to arrive. Vol...? If you want to give up the turn and some other group wants to start... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You want to start... I don't know, what's...? If you want. Any other groups? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You want to step in? [[Pause.]] Don't you? So, wait. He's already here – he's already here, he's already here. [[Pause.]] Xavier... yeah. Yeah. All right. [[Long break.]] Mr. García Albiol, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.259.0	Okay. Good night, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Yesterday, during my speech in the debate on the adoption of the Referendum Law, a law that knows perfectly well that the Constitutional Court, the institutions of democracy of this country have already annulled, pointed out that they were moving us to a fraudulent and perverse representation to maintain the illusion of a few, in addition to dividing us all of Catalan society, and that they were destroying the best of our tradition and identity as a society. Today we are witnessing the presentation of a proposal which is a clear example of the regime which you all want to impose on the Catalans as a whole. Its intention is simple: to make us subjects to all Catalans that we do not think like you. Today, ladies and gentlemen, I must add, and I really say this, with deep sadness, that the democratic level of the Catalan institutions had never fallen so low. In the last twenty-four, thirty-six hours we are witnessing, and you, the independence elite, leading actors, the greatest political, institutional and social decadence that Catalonia has experienced in its most recent history. Regrettably, no 21st-century European Parliament has acted in such an undemocratic, totalitarian way and against the guarantees and rights of Members of the opposition as you are doing. And, after all, I have to remind them that we are representatives of society, of the people of Catalonia. Yesterday, without going any further, beyond the repeated violations and violations of the most elementary rights of Members, as well as the various violations of the legal order and the regulations of this Chamber, they turned this Parliament into an improper circus of a minimally developed democracy. They can have a clear question, and evidence: if they have never had, not international support, but simply the consideration of the main international authorities, with this aggression on democracy and the rule of law that they have just provoked, they have become the main threat that the European Union currently has. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Puigdemont and the rest of the members of the Government, your project has failed. Its process of radicalization embarrasses any decent person with a minimum of respect for democracy and freedom. They know, and they know it perfectly well, that they have neither had nor have the support of the social majority of Catalonia, and with the authoritarian spectacle that they have starred in the last forty-eight hours, fewer support will have. Today they will receive, yes, another big applause from the CUP; from the CUP and from the fanatized entities that enthusiastically support and encourage them. But, you know? They will also receive another major rejection: the majority rejection of Catalan society. Looking for a few minutes of glory and the applause of the most radical politicians in Europe, today, Mr Puigdemont, put the Catalan institutions and the self-government of Catalonia at serious risk. In their desire to ignore and humiliate state institutions, they are sinking the self-government of Catalonia. Mr President, I would like to ask you, the members of your Government and the parliamentary majority of this Parliament a question, and you answer it sincerely yourself. You and those like you who bet on the break with the rest of Spain should ask if at what point in history in Catalonia radicality and break have improved the quality of life of all Catalans. I'll tell you: never. How, therefore, is it possible that the Government of the Generalitat today is working against the interests of the vast majority of Catalans? What is happening in Parliament is not about democracy; this is a kidnapping of democracy, it is a blow to democracy that can only be answered with firmness and authority emanating from our country's democratic institutions. No one, and they know it perfectly well, can appropriate a right to which he is not entitled. Spain is not a tailor's drawer where the flaps are kept or simply an artificial occurrence; we are a great nation, with Catalonia at its head, the oldest in Europe, and neither you nor any other daring will consummate the breakup of our country. The independence parties and you from the government have been fomenting hatred for Spain for years to retain a sense of disconnection. They have created an external enemy to exalt the idea that being Catalan is a feeling opposed to being Spanish. And it's true: they have a parliamentary majority, but they don't have a social majority there on the street. And I want to insist on this point: you do not have a social majority, but you want to impose a social model on the whole society that does not think like all of you. After the contamination of concepts such as "democracy or" giving voice to the people, a political model is imposed, a mixture of Bolivarian populism and authoritarian regimes, where the law is a relative and voluntary concept to which neither the legislative nor the executive power is subject. Undoubtedly, an unprecedented political and social scenario in today's Europe. What they are doing has no value, because they simply do not have the capacity to expel the Spanish State of Catalonia; nor to force us to comply with separatist laws that are completely illegal. Make it very clear that democratic institutions are not going to allow a single minute of double legality in Catalonia, as is already being demonstrated, and they have been able to see it, in the last hour, with the latest resolutions of our country's democratic institutions. After passing the Referendum Act, which, as I say, is annulled... but after passing the night and light, today they have repeated the circus again. The coup proposal presented to us shows that the referendum is simply a strategy of agitation and propaganda, simple and plain. And today they put the cart in front of the oxen; they take advantage to pass a law of breaking democracy, the rule of law and freedom, without knowing the hypothetical outcome of the referendum. Everything, as you can see, very coherent and very exemplary. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we are simply faced with a dangerous excuse to remain settled in your account: irregular censuses, electoral authorities that are ultimately voluntary, no legal recognition and now a law of break-up on which they base the outcome of a referendum that will not be held or convened. And on top of that, they have the misunderstanding to say that we are taking part in this vote in this debate that we are at the moment. It's just a farce, and I'm telling you, we're not going to do it. This is, unfortunately, the image – another – of an attitude proper to underdeveloped democracies that do not represent and that do not respect the guarantees. I do not have the slightest doubt that they even know what the participation of the hypothetical referendum and the outcome of it will be. We are facing a very sad moment, that is the truth. But the consequences are totally predictable. A referendum that, while President Mariano Rajoy remains in office, will not be held in Catalonia or anywhere else in Spain. There will be no referendum to separate part of Catalonia from the rest of our nation. Ladies and gentlemen, Catalonia urgently needs to move on from this dark stage. He needs a government with real priorities for normal people. Most Catalans are sensible people. Everyone has, and is true, their identity, their interests and the way or way of understanding Catalonia and also Spain. Out there, on the street, most of our neighbours hope that the Government will not create any more problems, but that, on the contrary, those problems will solve them. They want a change of priorities. Catalonia is sick of politicians who create problems. It is truly meritorious what most Catalans have had to endure in silence. More than 70_percent of the men and women we live in Catalonia feel Spanish and Catalan, or Catalan and Spanish, and we are for centrality, for understanding, for the pact and for common sense, for the seny. Therefore, you do not buy or want the confrontation that you are looking for between Catalonia and the rest of Spain. I repeat, Mr Puigdemont, and – now that you have arrived – also Mr Junqueras, I am talking to you about an immense majority of men and women from Catalonia. Each with its own way of seeing or understanding, as I said, Catalonia with Spain. Some, from federalism; others, from the current defense of the autonomous state. Some, feeling more Catalan than Spanish; others, more Spanish than Catalan, or as the men and women of the People's Party, as Catalan as well as Spanish. But all, I repeat, all, want to live naturally our sense of belonging without anyone forcing us to give up what we feel like our own. You, the independenceists, offer breakup, division, hatred, conflict and aggravation. We, on the other hand... [[Some applause.]] We, on the other hand, offer them an integrative project, eminently practical, of course. We bet to strengthen the state in Catalonia and, at the same time, the best of Catalonia also export to the rest of Spain. And now here I would like to address the Members of the opposition for a moment. I mean you, I want to tell you that we have political differences, it's true, we can't deny it, but right now I'm sure that what unites us most is the struggle against the great challenge that we have ahead. That, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, obliges us to give an adequate response to that challenge and we cannot live up to it unless we do so together. It is what the moment requires and what the Catalans are waiting for from us. Unless we perfect that union..., understanding that we can have, as it is, different stories, but we have common hopes; that perhaps our social and economic visions are different, but that we all have and we all want to move in the same direction, towards a better future for our children and our grandchildren, without others endangering coexistence. And now, in this exceptional moment that is touching us to live, is when most Catalans are waiting to see what we do. Frankly, I am convinced that we are and will continue to live up to the moment. And a final reflection for all of us, and especially for those who are defending the project of rupture in Catalonia. The agreement between the Catalans is a much higher value than the political, legitimate, personal aspirations that each of you can have. The epic of the knock on the door is ephemeral and all the resentment they are feeding today, tomorrow – don't give them the slightest doubt – is going to be frustration. They know perfectly well that they will not break Spain because they have neither social support, nor international consideration, nor legal reason. All they're going to do is dig deeper into social wounds opened up by the economic crisis and now by the process crisis. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I say to you that you do not have us for this task. Irresponsible ones – and I am finalising – who skip the law will receive a strong response from the rule of law. However, the wise will have the energies to sew society, a divided society, and to reconcile the Catalans. And you have no doubt that we will be the Members of the People's Party there. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.260.0	Thank you; many thanks, Mr. García Albiol. Then there's Mr. Jordi Orobig, from the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si, isn't there? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.261.0	[[The orator lowers the position of the mics of the Faristol.]] I don't have the size, obviously, the physical size of Mr. Albiol, do I? Thank you very much, Madam President. President, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies, People of Catalonia, one might think that I have begun my intervention with a formality: « Many thanks, Madam President. Today, less than ever, it's a formality. First of all, 'thank you' must be used to express my thanks, and I think I can say that that of my parliamentary group, for the management of the plenary, that in its yesterday and today's session it has experienced very complicated moments and that it has saved respect for the right of all Members to express themselves freely. The President, for the sake of respect that she is given, for such a condition, and I understand that it is essential to express it, since yesterday, among others, the chairman of a parliamentary group, one of these who fills the mouth with proclamations of respect for the law and the institutions, has referred to you repeatedly as "Mr Forcadell, with the soul, obviously not to put in value his lady's role, but with the soul to degrade his condition. One more burden, added to that which reminds him of his position in past entities or to which he attributes the condition of management of I don't know who, and the threats which, for his condition as a woman, he had to endure and which yesterday were denounced [[voice remorse and applause]] – and that yesterday they were denounced – not for us, but for other parliamentary spokespersons. I repeat, therefore, my respect, thankfully, and I believe that I can do so, I insist, on behalf of the parliamentary group. No one said this would be easy. Actually, we all know life is hard. Life is so hard that there are people who have grown up, huh? , who are cheered as secretary generals of the police, and have ended up cheered for the most reactionary right of Western Europe. [[Greetings.]] That's tough. Well, we've come to talk about a law. I don't think Mr. Albiol talked about this law. He made a speech. I'll try to talk a little bit about the law and try to be brief, because I know it's too late and everyone's too tired. Being the other way around, huh? That's the question. Being an independent state in the form of a right, democratic or social republic, or not being. The citizens of Catalonia are called upon to answer this question, without – I insist, without – voting as always, on October 1st. With the law of self-determination we have put the tool at the hands of the people to decide whether Catalonia is an independent state in the form of a right, democratic and social republic. This transcendent decision obviously cannot involve a leap into the void. The people have a right to know what has to happen from the beginning. Article 4 of the Law of the Referendum makes clear, with a meridian clarity, that is to say that the citizens of this great country can wait in case the recount of the votes of the referendum determines that there are more negative votes than you claim: the dissolution of the Parliament and the convening of autonomous elections. With the approval of the Law of Legal and Foundational Transition of the Republic, closely linked to Article 4.4 of the Law of the Referendum, the people of Catalonia know, also now with a clarity meridian, that they can wait in case the recount of the votes of the referendum determines that there is more to it than to deny: the proclamation of the Republic and the entry into force of the Law of Legal and Foundational Transitional Transition of the Republic, with a phonenal aside, that which is regulated to the title set of this proposal of the Law, the procedure constitutes that we must bring to the approval of the constitution of the Republic and to its ratification by reference to the people of Catalonia. Then I'll refer to the adjective so folkloric that they use to talk about this very important participatory process. With the Law of Legal and Foundational Transition of the Republic we have, therefore, in the hands of the people of Catalonia, the means to write the constitution of the new state, and thus build the Republic. This law is articulated in eighty-nine articles and three provisions which regulate aspects such as the system of government, legally a republic of law, democracy and social; sovereignty, which, as it cannot otherwise be, lie in the people of Catalonia, not in the oligarchies chosen to say; territory and nationality, with a broad and generous vision, also for all foreigners who reside legally in our country and who see the terms for the acquisition of nationality, and the succession of orders, administrations and contracts, with a special emphasis on legal security, which not only apply to the citizens but also to all those who express themselves to the judiciary, but also to the administration and to the administration of contracts, with a special emphasis on legal security, but also to the administration of the administration, which is not only an important guarantee of the administration of the administration, but also of the administration of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, the administration of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration, of the administration of the administration of the administration, of the administration, the administration, of the administration, the administration, of the administration, of the administration, the administration, the administration, the administration, the administration of the administration, of the administration, the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration, the administration of the administration, the administration of the administration, the administration of the administration of the administration, of the administration of the administration of the administration, the administration, of the administration, the administration of the administration, the administration, of the administration, the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration of the administration, the administration, the administration, the administration From this title is provided for the deployment of initiatives in the form of a decree to be validated by Parliament in order to adapt, modify and inapply the current law, and, what is more important, for which it makes the so-called dignity of this chamber, the regulation of the recovery of the validity and effectiveness of the norms prior to the succession of legal orders annulled or suspected by competent reasons for the Constitutional Court. As well, we foresee the continuity of the European Union's right, which is expected to be effective as well as its transposition into the internal right, and, therefore, the automatic integration of all that, also in the new, which continues to apply to Catalonia under the same conditions as the European Union's right. The rights and rights of citizens of the Republic, with particular emphasis on the fundamental rights and their protection, of special care and import for the norm, as well as the maintenance of the existing safeguards regime, positivity and, therefore, direct transposition of international instruments and treaties such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; the European Convention on Human Rights and its Additional Protocols; and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The right to benefits, with guarantee of the rights of all pensioners, and to social protection. And the language rights, keeping the language rule in place. The institutional system, with regulation of: the Parliament; the Presidency of the Generality, which as far as the state is concerned is of the Republic; the Government, and the Administration. Electoral union, with an evolution of that one, planned, and with all guarantees, also the judicial, with a system of resources both administratively and for which it makes electoral resources to substantiate before the guarantee room of the Supreme Catalan Court. The Council of Democratic Guarantees, which replaces the Council of State Guarantees and which recovers the rule already provided for the State, which I would like to recall that, thanks to the Socialist Party's raspall, to the collection of signatures and to the resources of the Constitutional Court, it was thoroughly capitulated to the Constitutional Court, and to the few peoples of the world who are governed by a rule that is not the one that voted for its people, but that is the one that dictated a court. The judiciary and the administration of justice, with the establishment of the Catalan Supreme Court, which, from the civil, criminal, social and administrative courts, will count with a guarantee room; the governing chamber of the Supreme Court; the mixed commission composed of representatives of the governing room of the Supreme Court and the department responsible for justice, which takes all that you are saying involves the imposition of judgments, in no case is this; the prediction is that it is the governing room of the Supreme Court that designates judges and magistrates, and in no case is it a prerogative of the Government. The appointment of the Attorney General of the State by the Parliament of Catalonia; it guarantees his impartiality, independence and objectivity, and thus the separation of powers. Everything you don't know what it means – and we have a sense of it every day. The financial section is explained by the tax, customs, cadastral and social security authorities of the Government of Catalonia; the protection of tax and contribution obligations; the social security system; the economic and financial rights and obligations of the new state; and the assumption, if so, on the part of the Catalan State, from the debt, according to the agreements concluded with the Kingdom of Spain. And a phonetic aside: that of the process constitute, a very powerful tool to the service of the citizenry of our country that must allow a citizen participation to configure the new constitutional framework; a process that is articulated in three phases and that, along with the folklore epithets and minorities that we have repeatedly listened to for its part, supposes a real democracy exercise that will end up concrete in a referendum of ratification of the constitution emanating from the assembly constitute. An assembly constitutes, for whom I do not understand, a parliament that has been chosen to make this task and, therefore, count on the same institutional dignity as all of you who are in the day of today's sitting in these seats. This Parliament, having approved this law, has not proclaimed Catalonia's independence. This decision is only right in the town of Catalonia, and will express it by means of your vote in the referendum of the first of October. The third final provision of the law which we are voting on clearly states: "This law will come into force once it has been approved, published and completed, as provided for in Article 4.4 of the Law of the Catalonian Self-Determination Referendum, is to say that "the recount of valid votes cast as a result of the fact that there is more to say than to deny, which implies the independence of Catalonia, and, to this end, the Parliament, from the two days following the proclamation of the official results by the Electoral Union, will hold an ordinary session to make the formal declaration of the independence of Catalonia to its effects and to agree on the principle of the constituent process. The decision, therefore, I insist, is at the hands of the people. This law proposal does not predetermine how the new state should be, but rather that it creates a legal _framework to make the transition between legal orders without conditioning them either politically or ideologically. Catalonia will be what the Catalans want. And at the time of defining who these are, let's remember, we've been generous and inclusive. As well, as it cannot be otherwise, and faithful to our country's pactist tradition, we open our hands to negotiation and agreement with the Spanish State in matters such as nationality, public debt, pensions and many other matters. And a special mention deserves the Aran, of which it makes an express mention for what it does to the language of the Occitan, to the specific legal rule provided for in Article 5, that it can also link to the specificities that have been provided for in the Law of Referendum. And all this will be, if they get out, the result of a collective decision, adopted in reference. As I recalled the sadness passed through Carles Capdevila, voting is the most reasonable, civilized, just and polite way we've invented to decide things. Mirin, I, like millions of Catalans, will vote on October 1st. I and many others will vote 'yes because we are independent of all life; others, because they understand that the best for their children, for the people who are closest to them, to personal and family title, is to initiate an illustrative, respectful, solidarity and plurality project. Never can a project of this kind be successful if it's about taxation, prosecution and repression, which is what the Spanish State offers us every day. Ours, the one we propose, is not the collective illusion and generosity. This parliamentary group has completed its mandate, and it wants to do as it started this exciting project: with a smile – with a smile – with the best of the smiles. With the laws of reference and transitoryity, let us leave it to the people to decide, if they understand this better, that Catalonia becomes an independent state. For so many who have given it all because they arrived at this moment, so many who have left us prematurely and unjustly – among them, Muriel Casals –, Catalonia, all those who are Catalans, we come from where we come, we are creditors of this opportunity. For Catalonia and the Catalans, hello and republic! For Catalonia and Catalans, Visca Catalunya is free! [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.262.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Orobtig. Next, in representation of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, has the word Mr. Benet Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.263.0	President, President, members of the Government, members of the chamber, when we have said quite loud and clear that we believe that we should put faith in the process in order to avoid the remote possibility of any attempt to use the independentist discourse to legitimize ourselves in power or to create a certain political hegemony, we have put the question of the referendum – not just ourselves, but a very large group of people and entities and actors from this country – the reference to self-determination of this part of the Catalan countries, precisely, as a solution to the question of the process, with a concrete date, with a binary question, on the birth of the Catalan Republic. The Law of the Self-Determination Referendum that we have already approved proclaims, in Article 4, what are the effects of this referendum. And so, somehow, the law passed yesterday is an epitaph of the political process that has experienced Catalonia in the last seven years. Because we have no doubt that it will not be possible to repeat, somehow, a 9-N_second, not because you do not have much potential for that massive act of disobedience of millions of people late in 2014. But to build an authentic democratic artifact that summons us politically... but more so, as we have said so many times, that it is done, for us it is an instrument that fully recognizes this sovereignty and that tells us exactly what will happen and what is the way we will follow once the declaration of independence and the proclamation of the republic has been produced, provided that the yes is won at no time in the October 1 referendum. And this is the object of this Transitional Law that we presented today for consideration of this chamber. When we have said loud and clear that we do not want to lower a flag to push another one and that we want a republic to change everything, we have made it clear from the conviction that our political discourse and our political project is not built on an ethnicist or identity project. Never in this room, ever in the street, when we defended the independence project, we articulated an ethnic discourse. It was yesterday; we were able to see – and today – who are the parliamentary groups that tell us who they are or how they are Catalans and who are the identities that Catalans can have. They say: "The Catalans can be Catalans, Catalans and Spaniards, most of us feel Catalans and Spaniards... Mirin, in this country, people have multiple identities, identities..., people who feel Catalan amaziga, people who feel Argentinian catalana, people who have three political identities, people who build their political identity much more along the lines of flags, from their gender, from their sexual orientation, from their political commitments. I'm not simplifying the identity question. This is a country rich in identities. And precisely to give these identities a political opportunity, we bet to build this Catalan republic of this Law of Legal and Foundational Transition. We are aware that the economic crisis that triggered the year 2008, which we started to suffer from our skins and our lives since 2008, has not only been a crisis that has affected the Spanish State economically, but has also been the determining crisis of the political institutions of the Spanish State, of its old party system, of the values represented by the 78th rule, which emerged from the Spanish Transition. And this economic crisis, accompanied by the political crisis and accompanied by the territorial crisis, this triple crisis, we have accompanied it with three democratic impulses, linked to the response to each of them. And from this triple democratic mobilising pulse to the streets, we have asked to remove this rule and to form a new political framework that is called the Catalan Republic. All the actors have contributed, from the Platform of Affections for Mortgage to the National Assembly of Catalonia, from the Assembly of Masters of Mallorca to the general waves against labor reforms, from the 15-M to the Plaça Catalunya to the Cultural Ómnium. From these spaces and so many others, we have built this message and this proclamation: that we want the Catalan Republic. So, and in the face of this desire, of this will of hope, we are aware that time is running. And that time probably runs against us. Because in front of us the Spanish State and the 78's rule was rebutted, it was reconstructed. For the time being, they have already changed the king for a single reading and without subtly referring to it. They build, after each election, constitutionalist majorities, or we should not say patriotic Spanish majorities, to avoid the exercise of the democratic rights of the people of Catalonia. And, in the end, the most corrupt party in Europe – I don't know if the most radical, but the most corrupt in Europe – ends up ruling and closing up the rule to serve the elite. And we saw it: not only the political government, but also the judicial government of the Spanish State; before yesterday, the judicial year of the hand of King Philip VI opened, and we saw how, one king the other, all the magistrates and prosecutors of the juvenile court already told what they would decide about Catalonia and how they had a clear compromise with the indissolubity of the Spanish crown. A judicial dome, of course, that should shame the state parties, that even if it is chosen for you from the Congress, from the Senate and from the Government, through your delegates, the General Council of the Judiciary donated the terrible image of twelve men—twelve men—in a judiciary in which women represent 53_per_cent. [[Greetings.]] And there wasn't a single woman! This is your democracy, which leaves half the population out of the government of the judicial dome; a good postcard of your deep democratic feeling. And before that, the time of the referendum is still asking to build horizons; horizons of the future based on different political values, which solve this political, economic and social crisis that crosses the Catalan Countries. When we said loud and clear that we wanted to start a process as one of our main demands in the September 27th campaign, we found no other way to do it than to exercise the right to self-determination first. And, in this sense, I think that the left has often been caught interestingly in debate, but we have not found another formula to reduce our sovereignty that does not go first for the exercise of the right to self-determination. Because we can't exercise sovereignty from the condition of an autonomous community; that's it. And don't tell us. I think..., one of the most interesting Spanish legal thinkers, Professor Thomas and Valiente, wrote, summoned by the Department of Justice of the Generalitat, an interesting study entitled « Sovereignty and autonomy in the Second Republic and in the Constitution of 1978. And the conclusion, after the analysis of all the constitutional theory, is that autonomy cannot ever be sovereign. Because precisely sovereignty is the ability to legislate on everything we want, and to repeal and approve all laws that we want, with the only limitation, in the constitutional rules, of the dictate of a constitution. And, effectively, where there is a constitution, there can hardly be a sobriety that does not follow that of the same Constitution. Because the only way to have full and original sovereignty is precisely to have a constitution. And, therefore, as only power constitutes acting with sovereignty, we want to have power constituted. And we, therefore, have to overcome this Constitution, we have to overcome what the Constitution says, what the State says, because what we want, therefore, is to address this profound debate about constituted power and constituted power. And this is the central debate that we have here, and the one that, ultimately, each of us has to address. Is there a political subject that is called Catalunya, yes or no? If there is such a political subject, do we want to give it full sovereignty, yes or no? If you have full sovereignty, you have the ability to open a constituent process. If we do not recognize the political subject it is impossible to have sovereignty and, therefore, to have processes constitute. We, like the CUP, are obviously what the way we deal with this issue is. The streets of this country have also solved it in the last few years in a massive and clear way. But I'd like to point out three clear antecedents of the history of this country that show us that we are a political subject, even more so than a tautology for some. When the year 1931 Francesc Macià proclaims the Catalan Republic on April 14 and does so before the approval of the Spanish Constitution, it is demonstrating the existence of this political subject. When this very Parliament in 1933 approves its internal status and says that the power of Catalonia emanates from the people, that exerts it through the organizations of the Generality, in its first article, it is said that there is a political subject that is said to be Catalonia. When the republican institutions are recovered with the Royal Decree of the year 77, of restoration of the Generality of Catalonia, reconnecting it with the Republican Generality, it is claiming this political subject. Three moments – 31, 33, 77 – that always answer, the demand of this political subject, to the mobilization of the streets, to the construction of a response from the people before an authoritarian power. In front of the agony of the Primo de Rivera dictatorship, before the agony of the Franco regime and, today, before this 78 rule that agonizes and that we want to bury and banish with this Law of legal transitionality. When we have said loud and clear that we have political legitimacy against an authoritarian Spanish lawlessness and lack of legitimacy, and in this House – and forgive vanity – in an interesting question that we have had with the justice adviser on democratic justice and the rule of law, and here we have mapped out what was the disastrous state of the concept of justice in the Spanish State, I think, before this situation, we want to make a demand for political legitimacy with which we build, in this transitional law, a minimum institutionality, a minimum provisional architecture for arriving at the process they constitute. We are establishing certain guarantees of rights, we are establishing a Catalan nationality, which, of course, extends the concept of Spanish nationality, which extends the cents we will have for the constituent elections – it will be much wider than the cents of the October 1 referendum – and therefore establishes which lines should be the lines, under this idea of the expansion of the concept of citizenship, because we think that there can be no first and second citizens in this country. There has to be one country, there has to be one people, and therefore we have to bet strongly on this idea of cohesion and the one community, just making a full recognition of the political rights of everyone who lives in Catalonia. And we know that in this mandate and in this approach that we assume with the law of transitoryity we cannot always move from the law to the law, as has been said so many times. Not because we don't speak, but because we have a state against, with its courts attacking wrongly and directly – this very evening, I don't know if it's been the night that the Constitutional Court has done – and, therefore, it's difficult for us to deal with the question of the implementation of the Catalan Republic. I'm done. I end up, I think, with a vision that we want to claim about, at least from the left, as we've always understood the right. We have not understood, and we have repeated it many times, never the right as a static, monolithic thing, as a melee of immobility that we have to hold on to our spatillas, which is the vision that has always come to us the legal right. We have understood that the right is plural, that the right is in motion, that the right is dialectic and that, above all, it is constantly talking between what is constituted, between power, and between the street, between society, the sociological right, as explained yesterday in an interesting article by Professor Albert Noguera. And the right that is constituted must seek to adapt to the right of society and to the wishes of the people, and not to slave and slave the desires of freedom, hope and construction of the people's future. Therefore, you are not mistaken, identify, let's say, of the unionist parties: this is not a conflict between Spanish and Catalan rights. That no one intends to sell this view, because it is not a debate about two legalities, as if it were in parallel; it is a debate between established power and constituted power, vertical power and monarchic power, against a power that builds from below, from a legality of power constitute and from a legality that does not seek to build itself from the power, but above all to discuss the power of the street. Here we leave you, therefore, this law of transitionality and of iniciaries of the Catalan Republic, which above all, above all, has not intended to predefine any model; it has merely intended to remove the 78 rule, to hold the chains of the 78 rule and to leave this people which claims its sovereignty and which stands as a political subject, so as to begin to walk and begin to build as this Catalan republic is to be. When we have said loud and clear these last days in a song, that it has been viral in the bands, that we will have everything and that it will be about life, it is above all because all that I have said has only felt if it is to talk about life, to talk about our lives, because everything that we have defended from this lighthouse in this legislature has been above all a strong and determined tool for basing a republic that allows us to live worthy lives. And why in the end, as Allende said, to whom we always remember every time that goes down on September 11th: "The story is ours and the people do it. Make it ours. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.264.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Subsequently, in representation of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.265.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, Councillors, ladies and gentlemen – few – Councillors, we are now about to discuss the law of... [[some applause]] , transitory. One thing that is not a law, even if it bears the name of law, and one thing that is not a law, that will never come into force. By the way, I do not know if you have heard, but it is no surprise: the Constitutional Court has already suspended the Referendum Law, as it will surely do with the document that is now being debated. And obviously we, as we did yesterday, will explain why we are not going to participate in this outrage against common sense. We are no longer talking about rights, nor about basic principles of the legal system, nor about basic principles of democracy. This is an outrage against common sense and against the basic rules of democracy. Look, the only thing you're going to achieve with this law, which is never going to come into force, and it's never going to apply, is a political goal; I suppose we're going to make the masses, we're going to warm up the atmosphere more, which is what you like. But they have achieved another goal, which is to unite the entire opposition, opposition that we think in an absolutely different way on many issues, even the referendum of independence that is so much talked about in Catalonia. We can think in completely different ways, but what you are doing is so serious – so serious – that today all the opposition parliamentary groups, which we represent more Catalans, because we have more votes than the two groups that support the Government, we have agreed on something, and that is that you are trampling on the rules of this Parliament and trampling on the rights of Catalan citizens. And I'm sorry that you don't like different political forces to agree on something, because coinciding is not bad. You have made the confrontation your policy, but beyond what you have sown in these years, politics is about to reach agreements, and we have no problem in reaching agreements with any parliamentary group. And I say more to you: I am sure that we could reach agreements with many of you, with many of the Junts pel Yes, and I am sure that some of the CUP too, if you had not put before the road, before democracy, before all the citizens, a monotheme that divides society. And we have seen it in this plenary session, we have seen it in recent years, but above all we will see it in the coming weeks on the street, Mr Puigdemont. And that is the impediment to the parliamentary consensus that you have placed as the main objective of debate. Because what we are saying right now and what we are discussing is not to distinguish Catalan citizens according to whether they are independentists or not, or to distinguish ourselves between whether we agree on a referendum of independence in Catalonia or disagree, as is our case, with a referendum in Catalonia. Today what we're discussing is what we think you're not doing right and you can't do what you want and those who think you're doing right and you can do what you want. We do not believe in the privileges of politicians. And I tell you more: there are many independent citizens, there are many citizens who would like to see a referendum of independence, who know that you are going through all the lines, and that you do not believe your lies that on October 1 there will be a referendum of truth, with guarantees and with a result that you can apply, that you do not believe a word of this law. And I'm not talking to you about citizens' voters, I'm talking to you about independent voters, people who want a referendum on independence to be held. I am probably talking about many of the Members who are sitting in Junts for today if you don't believe this deception, gentlemen. [[Widow's remorse.]] Many of you probably do not believe this deception, but do not dare to recognize it in public, because we already know what has happened to the last counselor who had the courage to recognize it in public. And it is very significant, because there are many Catalans, Mr Puigdemont, independentists or non-independentists; people who want a referendum or who do not want it; people of the left, right or center, who are worried about what you are doing, who do not believe that new mantra that has assumed Convergence in an absolutely unexpected and surprising way, that they are now going to rule the rules of the UPC and that disobeying is good, and that the struggle is done on the street, and that when we are not right the courts have the power to jump our resolutions, that is that citizens who consider that a law is not fair do not have to comply with it. You don't believe that. They don't believe it. They don't share it. Why do they assume that? Why do they make that burn the cohabitation in Catalonia? Why are you taking on a debate that you have never believed, that you have been fighting until recently? Why do you join the chariot that politicians can disobey? With what face then can a politician ask the citizen to obey, if he himself has not previously obeyed? How could you have fallen into something as ridiculous as going to play the game in the CUP field? There's not just going to win the CUP, it's just able to play the CUP, it's just able to play in that field the CUP. And Convergence has assumed a story that is obviously tearing them apart as a party, but I am convinced that many of you do not share it, many of you do not believe the lies you have said in recent months, many of you know that there is not going to be a binding referendum and that you will not be able to apply it. Be brave, please, because we are at a very important time. We are endangering the autonomy of Catalonia, the self-government of Catalonia, the legitimacy of this Parliament. You are about to load it – about to load it. It seems a lie that in the end a match like Convergence will be the one that almost hastily endangers the self-government of Catalonia. But not only that, but we are going to something much deeper, ladies and gentlemen. We are endangering a basic principle that is union and equality, but not only with the rest of the Spaniards, but also within Catalonia. You are losing respect for the political plurality that exists in Catalonia. You want to standardize Catalonia, homogenize Catalonia. You mean Catalonia is the same. Catalonia is diverse, lords of Junts pel Si and the CUP, and socially has nothing to do with a municipality like Hospitalet with a municipality like Ripoll. It has nothing to do with it! You're trying to pass a homogenizing roller through something that's different. Just as others try to do with Spain, and who deny the plurality of Spain, deny the diversity of Spain, they want to pass a homogenizing roller. Well, you're doing the same with Catalonia. And I think it's intolerable. [[Greetings.]] You're making Catalans have to face each other. We are putting forty years of prosperity at risk, and we are also throwing down what our grandparents and parents have achieved with so much effort. I tell you one thing, I'm from the year 81 and I don't intend to throw down the effort of my grandparents, my parents and all the people of your generation for conciliation in this country, I don't intend to throw down the ground – and I'm from the year 81. But what we can't do is ignore and focus on a project that divides, on a project that divides society back into sides. You are making a very serious mistake, and you believe that you will be able to control the consequences. No, it's just that when the car goes without brakes you can't control it anymore. And apart from all that is the way you do things..., which, I insist, the way you are defending independence or a referendum of independence is not shared by all people who want independence or a referendum of independence; imagine yourself by the social majority that we are not independenceists. They are not doing well and are not convincing even all members of their own Government or all members of their own electoral list. And by going to the content of this law..., because of this law the important thing is not the legal effects it will have, because it will never have them; the important thing of this law is that it is a declaration of intent. You have been able to include in this law what you have wanted, without having any kind of restriction. They also knew that this was a pamphlet, that this was something for the gallery and that it was never going to apply, and therefore they had no limit. Well, well, we've seen what you, without limits – legal, legal –, without any limits, put into a law like this. To begin with, for you, the principle that national sovereignty rests with the Spanish people is a nineteenth-century, demented, authoritarian, totalitarian thing. Well, then, when they have to do their law, in which they can put whatever they want, they put sovereignty in the hands of all the people of Catalonia. They translated it! If it was such a bad principle for the whole of Spain, why is it such a good principle for Catalonia? What's going on? What exactly is L'Hospitalet like Ripoll? What exactly is Santa Coloma like any town in Lleida? No – no, no. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.266.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.267.0	Yes, ma'am... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.268.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.269.0	To the lady..., well, here are some gentlemen and ladies who are very funny today, but when they have to testify in front of the judge they erase their smile and start blaming the officials. [[Greetings.]] Let's go on, let's go on with what you include in the laws. You do not understand the principle of normative hierarchy. You say that the law to be passed in this Parliament goes above any other law, with a simple majority, with a minority of votes on the street. I know this isn't looking for any kind of legal rigour, but a little bully shame, maybe? , a little relief when you put your signature on some document can you get to have? We're on. You complain all the life of the Constitutional Court – by the way, in which you have been electing members, Convergence, until four days ago [[applause]] – and it turns out they have the opportunity to say how they want their justice and also include that judges are also appointed politically. Perfect. In addition, a paragraph that I love, when you say that the Government's decrees law will have no control whatsoever. The decree law of the Government will not have, in its independent Catalonian imagination, in that Matrix that will never be produced..., whatever the Government does will not have any democratic control. That doesn't happen in any democracy in the world. I know you haven't thought about this much, but it just doesn't happen. Or you contemplate expropriations and confiscations of property. I guess they've already talked to the CUP, and they want to give the expropriation ministry to some CUP counselor, right? [[Greetings.]] Officials. The officials, who have had to pass some tests, some oppositions, with a principle of free competition, of meritocracy, you say: "Hey, if you want to follow what I tell you, you can stay, and if not, you leave. So, what a strange concept of public administration, that absolute control over officials. Not to mention the Electoral Union, which we saw yesterday, at twelve o'clock in the evening, what its concept of impartiality is. You have had the opportunity here to assign people who have gone on lists of your parties to ensure the supposed vote of October 1. They also include that, with a law that you are going to pass, which is going to last a_quarter of an hour, or perhaps a little more, in a minority, you charge all international law. These gentlemen believe they can tell the rest of the countries to sign treaties with them. I know you don't have to be licensed in law, but I think this is common sense, right? , which you cannot do here, in a law, that the rest of the countries sign with you treaties. Or the European Union. It is that we now have to believe more what Mr Junqueras says than what the European Parliament, the Council of Europe, the European leaders of the countries and the European Commission say. This is, I insist, a religious matter; this is that we must believe Mr Junqueras more than the leaders of the rest of the countries, because he says it, because for that we are here, to believe what Mr Junqueras says. Then, the Board of Statutory Guarantees, the one you have pointed out with your finger today, which I assume will best move the faces of those who have dared to question what you were doing. Well, the statutory guarantee board is not Madrid. Mr..., the CUP representative said: "We have a state against – I'm sorry, I don't remember your last name, I'm sorry –, "a state against. We have the bodies in Madrid against it. No, you have against Parliament's lawyers and the Council of State Guarantees and more than half of the Catalans. Those are against, Mr. Puigdemont. As I no longer insist on this legal misconception, I recommend that all law graduates read this law to know what they should never include in a legislative text. But, I insist, this is a statement of intent. And I refuse to think that many of the people who are still sitting in Junts pel's seats If they want to participate in this, I refuse to think about it. And I think that there are many of you who feel the same desire to be independent as the rest of your colleagues, the same desire to truly hold a referendum of independence as the rest of your colleagues, but who know that this is a hairpin and that this is going to generate a social tension that we are going to take years – years – to be able to redirect. We talked yesterday about how the Referendum Act was formulated. And you know that's not going to be a referendum. You know you're not going to be able to go anywhere in the world to say you're going to apply any results. Why do they make promises to their own voters who know that they will generate frustration? It is not only that you insult those who are not independenceists, that you say that those who are not going to vote are subjects; it is that no longer is that, it is that you are lying and disrespecting your own voters. They're going to come and ask for explanations. You've been mobilizing people for years, asking them to pay for their shirts, to pay for the bus, the snack, to give money to pay for Mr. Mas's fine, and you're going to fool him again. You promised them independence in eighteen months, Mr Puigdemont, and you haven't given it to them. You said, "In eighteen months... we will have our state, which no one has doubted. Well, then, we've had a lot of doubts. And also, the fact that you are not going out with yours, is not an opinion, is that it will be a year and you will see that no referendum has been held and that we are not independent. It's just that it's something that's out of the question, it's not political discrepancy, it's reality. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I will place you, if you wish, one year from now, in a debate like this again, and you will see how you do not hold a referendum of truth, with guarantees and internationally recognized, and how we are not independent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.270.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.271.0	I'm done, Madam President. It's not just that this is illegal, we said it yesterday, it's not just that it's a nonsense; it's that you have left the realm of democratic play. And I, as a Democrat, obviously want politicians to be given the same laws as any other citizen. But I think there's a great truth, and it's not just with justice and the laws we're going to solve it. Of course we will have to do a lot of politics and of course we will have to form an alternative. But do you know who will not be able to participate in the political alternative and the political solution that will, of course, accompany the legal and legal response? You guys. Because they have broken all the bridges, because they have blatantly lied to their own, because they have managed to tension Catalan society. And that's the biggest mistake you're going to make; the biggest mistake to get nothing, not even your own. I am convinced that this situation is going to continue, but it will take years to return the social. You've broken all the ships...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.272.0	Mrs. Rimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.273.0	I'm done in a second, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.274.0	You know you've spent a lot, a lot of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.275.0	Yes; it is such an important issue, the legal transitoryness of Catalonia [[laughs and strong remorse of the eyes]] That I need forty more seconds...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.276.0	Quiet, and please – quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.277.0	Madam President, I'm done, I'm done right away. It is such a relevant topic, to see how some think it would be their ideal republic, which deserves more time. You have burned all the ships, you have broken all the bridges, and you are going to be the only ones who are not going to participate in the political solution that will no doubt come, in addition to the legal one, obviously. And I say to you that there will be a new majority in this Parliament. And there will again be majorities with people who think just like you in the identity field. There will again be consensus, majorities, government programs, and there will be laws, not of independence, but of health; not of rupture, but of education, and they will rebuild the bridges in a Catalonia within Spain and within Europe...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.278.0	Madame Arrimadas, I really know very hard, but I'm going to have to take your...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.279.0	...and you're going to be the only ones who won't be able to participate. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.280.0	... because it's been more than three minutes. Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. The groups that have not submitted papers will continue to intervene. In the first place, has the word Mr Miquel Iceta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.281.0	Thank you, Mrs. Forcadell. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first place, perhaps an explanation of why the debate has gone as it has gone. The debate has gone as it went, among other things, because two changes to the agenda have taken place, Article 81.3 has been intended to be used, from our point of view, abusively, and the legal reports and opinions of the statutory guarantee board that we have asked for have been repeatedly denied. Secondly, I wanted to say that we actually had knowledge of the suspension by the Constitutional Court of the law which intended to regulate the reference. To remind the Venice Commission, which is what tells us that the supremacy of constitutions cannot be questioned, that the maximum interpretation of a constitution is the Constitutional Court, that there is an obligation to complete its sentences and resolutions, and that only references can be made to the current Constitution or to a law that agrees with it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Now I'll talk to you... Yes, the Venice Commission says that; there are people..., we've been to Venice a lot, but the Venice Commission says that. This proposal constitutes a monumental legal nyap. From the beginning, the title. How can a transitional regime be established and say at the same time that it is foundational? It is obvious who is the political objective of this proposal: to liquidate the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy, and to replace them with a model of democratic quality deficit I do not know at these moments if more inspired in Kosovo or Montenegro. As the electorate has already warned, this proposal directly contradicts the resolutions of the Constitutional Court and will therefore directly lead to the red tape of first-suspension and then annulment legislative initiatives. And, moreover, they can carry sanctions that will later be regretted even though in this case they have been self-inflicted. I say this in a more glamorous way: if the casters warn about the commission of a crime and they don't know it, they don't get to complain afterwards if justice pursues the crime. It's an absolute contradiction. This is precisely why I would like to begin by trying to answer the question that seems most pertinent to me: why do you want to approve today, before celebrating October 1st, what you call the reference, this proposal? To prove it's really going? To try to get those who disagree with this proposal, with the content, to participate in October 1st? Or, quite simply, because, as you know that October 1st will not be celebrated the actual reference, linking and with guarantees, you want that, as at least, there is something left in the official button of Parliament and in the official newspaper of the Generality, or that it is for forty-four hours. You know that the reference you have promised cannot be made. You know there will be no Catalan Republic on October 2nd. But in any case, that's what I wrote. I think this is the big goal: to get to the story even though it's with a note on a little page. I will not be very critical of the legal content of the proposal, but you yourselves already accept that it is of a strict nature. Because, if you don't, they wouldn't care if the castors made a statement. Or they deny us an opinion from the statutory guarantee board. Why? Because they don't want to be told the boatman's truths and put a look at them showing an obviousness. Listen, you stay with the casters, who have at least won an opposition contest; then we'll talk about the members of the statutory guarantee board. Listen, if you have the certainty that you've done a good job, you won't do it for a report from the press; you won't have any, you won't get an opinion from the Guarantee Board. [[Some applause.]] But it's that, besides, this is more obvious today than today. Because yesterday with the Law of the Referendum you could be in a hurry and say, "Listen to me, it's that this has to be done before October 1, and therefore if we need to get into some way or some terms, then we need to do it. But for this law, an opinion of the Guarantee Board for a law that is being processed as a matter of urgency, is only a week. It could be perfectly approved before October 1st. But this was not the problem here; the problem is that you didn't want to pass the ITV – there were problems with the ITV, you – and therefore they decided [[applause]] do another thing: go for the quick. I believe that you, and I fear that in this there is a very, very fixed Hispanic culture, if reason does not reach me, I use force. And since there's a majority and most people can do everything... But, listen, it's now the Catalonian State Guarantee Board that tells us one thing, that there is no proposal that can be left without the possibility of asking the board for an opinion. They're telling us! And it's that, besides, if one has the patience to read the law, man, it's said that the Guarantee Board dictates on the adequacy to the Constitution of the plans and proposals for reform of the State before Parliament approves them. Home, if that doesn't reform the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy, let God come and see it. But even so, you say: "The adequacy to the State and the Constitution of the projects and the proposals under the approval of the Parliament, including the one-reading ones. This is Article 16 of the Law of the Statutory Guarantee Board. So, you, why didn't you want to? Home, because they have to teach them the red card. And who would teach them the red card? Because, to me, the truth, I want to recognize everyone's work that is trying to help us do things right, as far as Parliament or the Guarantee Board are concerned. "No, no, to the Guarantee Board you went through the back door, no, on the back door I will not go out there, but they say, "it's more they've pressed them! We have, it seems, pressed Mr. Àlex Bas – well known to you, at least to some, and who left a very good record in this chamber. "You've pressured Mr. Carles Jaume. You've pressured Mr. Pere Jové. You've pressured Mrs. Margarita Gil, proposed for the present government. We must have pressured Mr. Joan Aegean, president of the Board of State Guarantees, which you must know very well. And if not, the Democrats, these sure do. Either Mr. Marc Carrillo, or Mr. Jaume Vernet or Mr. Francesc of Paula Caminal. Look, no: if they've decided to make an agreement from their ple say what they say, it's because they're convinced that the best service they can do in Catalonia and their institutions is to say things as they see them. You've decided not to, not to. Okay. So, we'll do it without the opinion. Now, the note that the Guarantee Board has made to us today, says one thing – it says: "Home, you can always appeal to the Constitutional Court. That's how we do it. Actually, we've already done it. We did it yesterday, with a lot of rights raised yesterday, we did it today with a lot of rights raised today. But I have to tell you, I don't like to go to an institution outside of ours to defend my rights. I had always thought that the best defense of Catalan rights would be in Catalan institutions. I'm afraid I was wrong. [[Greetings.]] About the legal content, I'd say. The first article is contrary to the Statute and the Constitution; the second article is contrary to the Statute and the Constitution; the third article is contrary to the Statute and the Constitution; the sixth article is contrary to the Statute and the Constitution; the seventh article is contrary to the Statute and the Constitution; the second title is contrary to the Statute and the Constitution; the third title is contrary to the Statute and the Constitution; the fourth title is contrary to the Statute and the Constitution. By the way, title four: there's a chapter, which is the fifth, which says what the Catalan electoral system is. And our Statute says that Catalonia's electoral system requires the support of a majority greater than two-thirds of the Parliament. We already know that this is the same for you, but I remember it: this disposition of our State we put it ourselves! Here, in this Parliament, there was no one outside who told us. And why? Because I assume that, guided by a prudence that so often passes through the passages of the Parliament, we said: « Home– so often– « with fears that we would have to be if not all agreed, a vast majority, we force two thirds to agree. It is true that this, for example, has prevented there from being an electoral law. But, finally, for something it is necessary to do, to ensure that one half did not impose its criteria on another half. And that's what you want to do with this law proposal. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, title five: contrary to the Constitution and the Statute, and finally, gives full satisfaction to that socialist leader who wanted to kill and bury Montesquieu. [[Widow's remorse.]] So, really, the Catalonian Parliament has done it, with great efficiency, and the separation of powers has disappeared. The title is, also contrary to the Constitution and the Statute; the set, also, and, finally, the third final provision, also. Listen to me, if you want to change the Constitution, the Parliament can make a proposal and raise it to the Congress of Deputies. If you want to change the Statute, we agree for two thirds and make a reform proposal. But you wanted to do it for speed. "If by an absolute majority there is a change in the rules that could only be changed by a majority of two-thirds, the crisis can be capitalized. The opposition is complaining about an irregular change, measured by a majority of Parliamentarians who do not have equivalent proportional support among voters. And if there is no consensus on the rules of the game, the results will hardly be accepted. If you're looking to donate a picture of democratic pulcritus that the world admires me it seems we're not going for the right way. I'll say, "Is that such a round phrase from him? No, it's from Dr. Xavier Arbos in an article published in The Newspaper as long ago as September 13, 2016. Maybe you don't care about that, but we do. We wanted to make broad agreements. There are many things about the law. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , is said: "The Catalans want agreements and we must be able to agree employees, contracts, social benefits, social protection, tax authority, social security with the State. Well, he'll do it. They have decided to change the Board of Statutory Guarantees. Well, now they're saying, "Democratic Safeguards Council, which will be more powerful, because now it's going to make binding statements. Ah, yes, but whenever it's not done by law decree, because as the Statutory Guarantee Board can hear in the matter of law decrees, the future Democratic Guarantee Board will no longer be able to. Therefore, if a government does not want – as they do now, go – that the Guarantee Board can dictate, then it does by decree and pulls you out. The fantasy of the process is already the subject we discussed here in the Commission of the Study of the Constituent Process. You are talking about a social forum, which we don't know who will integrate it, which is what will establish a binding mandate on a constituent assembly. At this assembly I would like to be there – I will try – [[remorse of the voice]] , because in the exercise of its power it will not be able to control, suspend, challenge by other power, judge or court. He will, therefore, ultimately be solely responsible before God and history. On sound. [[Give me the applause.]] But, look, I don't know if this is a mature project or a mature mass.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.282.0	Mr. Iceta, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.283.0	Yeah, if it doesn't matter... well, no, I'll cut it, 'cause I already know they didn't like it very much. After they said we discussed little of the contents; I wanted to talk about the contents. Listen to me, this law settles the two-thirds issue, because between other things to reform it can be done by an absolute majority. Brilliant. Now, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's We think it's a bad way, but they have you..., or they have..., or they have, go, because they say it often, right. They say: "Home, is that the Statue is no longer the Statue. And in that, they are right, but that's what you can say, as others do: "Do we subscribe to it? With this you liquidate the present and even everything, "if you find me, the former. You don't have to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.284.0	Mr. Iceta, I know it's hard, but you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.285.0	Look, what you're saying, he gives a little word to my group later. [[Voice remorse and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.286.0	Mr. Iceta, you've run out of time in two minutes for twenty-nine seconds. They're here and they can see all the parliamentary groups, they've exceeded time in two minutes twenty-nine seconds, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.287.0	No, let me, because you say that and you're right, but you should say that it's like the Socialist Group didn't submit papers, I gave it only two minutes. But then you should have the pleasure of saying that we have not submitted papers because you have denied us the right to submit papers to the totality. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.288.0	The words of Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.289.0	Thank you, Madam President. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.290.0	Quiet, and please – quiet, and please. We respect the word tower. [[Pause.]] When you want, Mr. Coscubila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.291.0	Well, thank you, good night. These days it is obvious that the Parliament of Catalonia has created the Rubic. Years ago, the bunkering of the People's Party, its refusal to recognize the right to decide, the use of the State's keyloggers, the attempt to solve a political problem renouncing politics and betting only on repression has placed us in which some have qualified as an unknown territory. Even at this point in time, in a real crisis in the state, the only actions that the People's Party, Mr. Rajoy's government, is able to endure are in the courts and criminal responsibilities and not a single political proposal. In this context, it was and is absolutely important that the sovereignist forces chose the land of conflict well. For years we have been the sovereignist forces, the ones who have won the ideological battle of democracy; this is what has made us strong, this is what has allowed us to add, which has allowed us to have much moral authority. And you, the majority of Parliamentarians, have policed in forty-four hours black this political capital that has been for five years the great fortress of sovereignism, the great moral authority of the defense of democracy. And yet they have irresponsibly decided that their strategy of unilateral reference should be brought to an end at any price, losing sight of what has been the great political capital of sovereignism: the moral authority of the defense of democracy. The battle of the ballot box, the battle of the referendum can only be won if the path is made from the most scrupulous respect to democracy here in Catalonia. And until now it had been like this, but during these forty-four black hours in the Parliament of Catalonia you have done so. As they have not been able to value, to ignore during these forty-four hours of blackness that being placed on the ground of denial of democratic rights weakens the object of the reference and the legitimate aspiration that some of the independence have? And, besides, it facilitates the anti-democratic strategy of the PP and the criminalization of the right to decide. What a mistake, Mr Puigdemont, what a great irresponsibility they have eaten yesterday and today. How have you been able to deliver the flag of democracy to the PP, the party that climbs the democratic rights of minorities in Spain, the biting party, the party of the perpetual chain, the party of the repression of the wave, the party that denies us the right to decide, the party that is the heir of Fraga, the street is mine and the death penalty of the franchise? [[Greetings.]] All this... [[Widow's remorse.]] No, all of this, you, during this two-day Plea – during this two-day Plea – have pulled it over the edge, because you have allowed others to take this flag. This is the great consequence of this historical error that you will be responsible for. I hope to share one thing with Juntes for the Yes and the CUP, and it is that the convening and celebration of a referendum and the beginning of a constituent process, which end with the creation of a republic – they are the objectives of this law – they are fears of a great transcendence – at least in this we have to agree, I suppose, right? And, therefore, that you cannot be treated with superficiality and lack of rigour and lack of democracy with what you have dealt with during this plenary. Among other things, to use procedures that deny democratic rights on a good part of Parliament delegitimate the legitimate objectives of the referendum and the process constitute. We are telling all the groups in the room: the means used always condition and affect the sun. It is dignified, if the media are worthy, or it is degraded and delegitimized, as it happened yesterday, if you are authoritarian and scarcely democratic. And if our arguments don't serve them, I suggest that they read Norberto Bobbio and all his reflection on the ways and means and his deep relationship, as some condition the others. The means used can come to delegitimize completely legitimate objects and is what you have done during these forty-eight black hours of the Parliament of Catalonia. The way you are setting up these debates makes it very clear: we are not before a serious project. It is a project that only has the objective of presenting a report to maintain the fiction of a binding unilateral reference, and this is the objective that you have placed us during these forty-eighth hours. You may know..., you still haven't been able to answer this question: you may know who you need to force the machine today for an object as pernicious as a law that is paper mullat, and that, even though you didn't suspend it from the Constitutional Court, it would never be applicable, because it is inapplicable for your own limitations, the limitations that a law that doesn't have the ability and the strength to be implemented? This law is situated in the realm of politics-fiction to which you have accustomed us during these two years of legislature. There are many who believe that the social, political and territorial pact born of the Constitution, of the Transition is exhausted; it is exhausted. There are many of us who believe that a process should be set up. Another thing is if this is done from statements and motions or is working correlations of forces that make them enough, because it is not guaranteed that the end result is better than what was achieved in year 78. But, to be sure, it's legitimate to plant it. But does anyone think that a process of this nature can do without the correlation of forces of what is available? And what is this doing through a law that declares a unilateral independence and the configuration of a republic, as you are setting us up at this time? Most of them have called for the adoption of a law that supposedly involves, among other things, the unilateral declaration of independence and the founding of the Catalan Republic. Look, we don't challenge the objects of this law; they're legitimate, like all objects. What we clearly object to is that you do not explain how you think you can only solve them with the publication of a law, if it is done, and unilaterally; because this is the subject of the case. Laws can force them if they have power, coercive ability, ability to be imposed. That's why international bodies approve resolutions and many standards and then they can't complete them, they can't impose them, because the lack of this coercive ability to be imposed. This is the definition of state, the definition that is related to standards and ability to be required and, therefore, the possibility to be applied. A few days ago, they asked in a program to Congressman Rufián how it would be to apply the law and expel the Spanish army from border control. And his answer was: "I don't know. And when asked how to get control of the air space, his answer was the same: "I don't know. Congressman No-I-I know, in the background, what's laying down is that it's not possible. So, well, each and every one of you apart from this has the same questions, and all the same answer, that of Congressman Rufian I don't know. How do you intend to apply this law to exercise sovereignty over the land and sea space described in Article 6? Can you explain? This proposal regulates Catalan nationality and generously sets out the recognition of dual nationality and says that this will be done with the Spanish State, together with public debt and I don't know how many things. Can you explain to me how it is not possible to agree on a reference of self-determination and, in change, can you make a unilateral declaration of independence, more so with the Catalan Republic, and continue to raise it, after this process, the subject of the negotiation of dual nationality? Can you explain it to me? Clearly you can think that, well, as someone said in relation to Europe: "Ui, you won't go to hell out of Europe, because then the problem would be theirs, won't you? Because, of course, he came up with all this stuff. So, possibly, if you ask Mr. Rufian this, I'd say, "I don't know. Objects are legitimate, but what's not legitimate is fooling people. How do you intend to explain the tax sovereignty, Mr. Junqueras? How do you plan to get taxes paid, which are the competence of the Spanish State, to the Catalan tax agency? Until now, you had taken care of the forms, and you had said that you did not intend to put at risk the Catalans, that they would not make them choose. Now they give them, to the citizens of this country, the possibility to decide whether they want to be embargoed by the Catalan Tax Agency or, in change, they prefer to be embargoed by the state tax agency, because as there are two laws, they will have to pay only in one place and the other will embargo them. That's what you're up to right now with this law. And this has been resolved with a paragraph that you so quietly say and the new State will protect the citizens before the other powers. What? "I don't know, Rufián. [[Give me the applause.]] Perhaps Mr. Junqueras knows – perhaps Mr. Junqueras knows. With what tax data do you think you're managing these taxes? In the matter of social security, exactly the same. Think of the companies, the autonomies and the employees from the conflict to decide where to enter their contributions, whether to the General Treasury of Social Security or to the Catalan Social Protection Agency that we have just approved? Should they choose the Catalans for whom they prefer to be seized, their goods, in order to fulfill their obligations? Can you put yourself at risk... are you willing to put at risk the Catalan workers whom the Social Security Treasury does not recognise the girls' contributions to the Catalan Social Protection Agency? How do you plan to pay the pensions? That it's no longer just a problem of economic viability, it's a problem even of management inviability. Certainly, why don't you explain that the social security system, if it's territorial, is not with an annual deficit of €4,000_million, roughly? Why don't they explain? How's that paid? "I don't know, Rufián. So let's continue with this not-know-it. How do you plan to manage pensions if you don't have social security data bases? You think you're stealing them? No, they think they're negotiating with the State of which they've unilaterally seceded. How to do it? « I don't know. And then we go on: courts. It says: "We will replace Spanish courts for Catalans. Well, you'll tell me how many judgments you're willing to complete this law. And, of course, friend Xavier Arbos, who has already been quoted, told them, with a model of judiciary much less independent than we already have. They may build a new country, but an infinitely worse state from this point of view. How to do it? How do magistrates and judges decide to complete the law that you say is superior, for this mandate you say you give it? "I don't know, Rufián. (Laughter.) So, well, all of this goes on and on. In court matters, do you think that you risk the investigation of the National Court of Barcelona and Cambrils, entering into conflicts of competence, because they say that the National Court will be replaced by a Catalan court? You really think you're doing this? Maybe so. What? « I don't know. Unbelievable and difficult to understand that some political forces that carry decades installed in the structures of the system – I am referring to you – and others, that legitimately, like the UPC, intend to build an alternative political, social and economic system, are laying down a law that is paper mullat. Did you hear that? No, because it will not apply or even the Constitutional Court will not annul it. I'm done. How is it possible that so many people to Juntes for the Yes, who consider this law to be a great political error – and they explained it even when you don't ask them – there's no way to stop its processing and have pulled forward with the frivolity and torso of these days?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.292.0	Mr. Coscubala, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.293.0	I'm done. Two paragraphs. Are you aware that the great mistake that has been made during these forty-four hours of the Black Rufian strategy is not-are the objectives they want to achieve? This is the raison d'être of our democratic beauty during these forty-four black hours. We haven't been able to explain them there. I hope – I hope – I hope that I will explain my life to you; unfortunately, it will be at the expense of everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.294.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Then there's the word Mr. Germà Gordó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.295.0	Thank you, President. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.296.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.297.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Members of Parliament, create legal doubts about this bill? Yeah, believe me, sense dubte. Is this a better law proposal from the technical legal point of view? Yeah, I really think it is. Would it have been desirable for most of them to be more important to their approval? Yes, I would, and I know very hard not to have a project that has incorporated more political sensitivities and, therefore, more sensitivities of Catalan society. But will I vote, shall we vote in favour of this proposal? Yes, we will vote in favour. And why? Simply because this proposal has objectives for which we work. In the first place, we work and work always because the national sovereignty of Catalonia resides and rests in the will of Catalans and Catalans, and in the case of the Aran, the Aran and the Aran. And, two, because the Parliament of Catalonia and each of the Members who make up it are the faithful representatives of this will; a will that cannot hold any limits other than human rights and the rights of the people. And that is precisely why I will vote, we will vote in favour of this proposal; a proposal which, with more or less certainty, clearly defends these two objectives. Many thanks, President; many thanks, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.298.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gordó. Finally, the groups proposing the proposal have a final comeback. [[Pause.]] Mr. Salellas renounces his final turn. [[Pause.]] Mr. Orobtig also renounces his final turn. All right, then. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa had asked for the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.299.0	Just to announce the withdrawal of our shipment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.300.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. First place... [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.301.0	To announce the withdrawal of our task, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-07-4202.302.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. In the first place, we would vote on the items on the agenda, and finally vote on the text of the opinion. We will then vote on the papers submitted for the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes and the CUP, with registry number 68.915. [[Widow's remorse.]] Let's just hope the deputies and deputies get out of here to make the vote. Let's take advantage of it to call it a vote, even though I don't think it's gonna be necessary. [[Long break.]] In the first place we will vote on the documents of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes and of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Cree Constituent, with the registry number 68.915. The vote begins. The items were approved by 70 votes to 10, with 1 abstention. We will then vote on the Junts Parliamentary Group's papers for the Yes, with registry number 68,916. The vote begins. The statements were approved by 60 votes to 10, with 11 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the documents of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - Creea constitute, with registry number 68,917. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 10 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on the rest of the text of the bill, that is, the part of the text that has not been edited. The vote begins. The proposed law of legal and founding transitionality of the Republic was approved by 71 votes in favour, 10 against and no abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Thank you very much. Thank you all very much. They suspect the session until tomorrow morning you give it to them.
