ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.1.0	The session begins. Too late to all and so to all. In the first place, we want to welcome Mrs. Maria Assumption Laïlla, who today returned to the plenary, after her motherhood. [[Greetings.]] The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. According to Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated tomorrow morning, to the gods, as according to the order of the day of this plenary session. Thus, the record that, according to Rule 93 of the Rules, the deputy Marta Ribas, of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group Yes, it is Pot, has delegated his vote to the spokesman of his group, Mr Joan Coscubiela. [[Project of the Law of Presumables of the Generalitat of Catalonia for 2017]] [[200-00019/11]] The first item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the 2017 draft law on assumptions by the Government of Catalonia. The debate will begin with the defence of the reserved items and the items subsequent to the opinion of the Council of Statutory Guarantees by the parliamentary groups, from major to minor, ending for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, in a single twenty-minute period. So, I'm guessing that the vote on the opinion on the Government of Catalonia's Bill of Presumables Bill for 2017 will go a long way towards ending the government's control session. The debate and vote on the opinion on the draft law on fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures, which appears as a quarter of the order of the day, will take place tomorrow. In the first place, for the defense of the statements of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word the Lord Carlos Carrizosa, that the warning that is will depart the time with the Lord Antonio Espinosa. So, they're gonna have to give each other a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.2.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, President, today you bring us to approve here, to the House..., we will vote tomorrow, but you bring us to approve budgets that have arrived late, by the way – we are already in March, in the vote on approving budgets – and they are not budgets to get out of the crisis, they are budgets to get us out of Spain and to get us out of Europe. That's what you've made up those budgets for. They have done so for that and to please their CUP partners. They are not budgets, as they should have been, for all Catalans, to support the needs of all Catalans, which are so many and so varied. And it is their responsibility to cover the and order public finances so that everyone has what is theirs, which is the most classic principle of justice, to give to each one what is theirs. But, on the other hand, you have opted for budgets that perpetuate the political bars and budgets aimed at, because this was imposed by your partner in the UPC, to repeat on 9 November. But that is not the only reason why we will not vote for their budgets; we will not vote for them either because they are opaque budgets, they are budgets that hide items, that elude the control that the democratic opposition has the right to have over public finances. They are budgets that camouflage into interdepartmental funds, with items of much more than 100_millions, of more than 130_millions_of_euro, items that would have to be destined for supposed natural disasters. We do not know why there has been this increase of more than 130_million in a few games..., do you expect the year 2017 to rain a lot? [[Widow's remorse.]] Do you expect hurricanes? Do you expect tidal waves? Tsunamis? What do you expect? Why is this so important game? [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Unless it's earthquakes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.3.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.4.0	...that you yourselves provoke, political earthquakes that you intend to cover with those hidden games between the interdepartmental funds, of which, at the moment, we have no explanation. They are budgets that do not combat poverty or inequalities, that do not provide for the rationalization of the Administration. Since we have an autonomy, you, the governments of Convergence i Unite – nor the others, certainly – have not undertaken an in-depth reform of the administrations other than to introduce the regional councils, which is an administration that elsewhere they do not have, and which duplicates and reduces and quadruples and quadruples the degrees of administration that we have in Catalonia. They do not favour these budgets, the growth of the economy and employment. They don't care; they're not for that. You have put patches on these budgets. You only think in the short term, which to a certain extent is logical because with the government so short that you expected to have, and so short that it will turn out to be in the end, to a certain extent it is normal for you to intend to make budgets that are not going anywhere, because we are not going to get anywhere with your government. And then you've understood it too and that's why you've focused more on making victimistic budgets, which are good for you to say that everyone is very bad, that you don't have resources. Mr President, you are not going to the Conference of Presidents to see if you get more revenue and resources for Catalonia with a more just funding system for all Spaniards. This, you, not; for that you will not move if you. They don't care. " Do We Have Little Money? Well, it's the same, we're not going to talk either; we're not going to do politics, we're not going to negotiate, we're not going where we belong. We will manage what we have, but we will not try to get more resources for all Catalans. And, yes, what little is invested in departments like Mr. Romeva's, for example, that goes from 51_million to 64. A 25_per_cent increase in Mr. Romeva's budget, for his travels, Mr. Romeva. And yet, for dependence or for barracks, then, we don't have enough. We are not going to reduce barracks, on the contrary, your government is increasing them. But for Mr. Romeva's travels, don't miss it. We'll give you a 25 plus..., a 25 percent plus budget. And others, to say the same, « pampered children of his government..., Mr Junqueras also, that for his toy, the Catalan tax agency, has..., therefore, look, of 35_millions that we had budgeted in 2015, we went in 2017 to 93,3_millions. To make an empty shell, not to manage any new taxes..., that you need to set up a tax agency to get some big taxes to manage. They're not coming. Or is it? Or is this to make a state structure thinking you're going to manage big taxes, then you're never going to get there? What's his name? From 35 to 93.3, without having other additional skills, what's your name? It's called waste. That is what you are doing now with your budgets. Moreover, these budgets do not provide for the repayment of the salaries of officials for the years 2013 and 2014; nor do they. Why, if you can already put it in the tax agency to Mr. Junqueras or on Mr. Romeva's travels? Or they can invest 400_million_of_euro in the computer bubble, which nobody knows very well what it is about. Those 400_million_of_euros – which, for us to get an idea, is the entire budget of the Department of Culture – you put them, in various departments, to a expenditure that is difficult to control, such as that of the computer bubble, the computer. Unless it's to make you new programs and databases, we've already talked a lot about this. And you already have too... We have talked a lot about ourselves and have also talked a lot about other people related to Republican Left, about databases; also some finance secretary, by the way, Mr.Savado, who said that you were making databases to be able to function l'endemà of independence. And this was also said by Mr. Vidal. Mr. Junqueras, then, denies it; but, well, there we see where the money goes, where it runs. In that and in high-ranking salaries that you have climbed from 11 to 13_per_cent in these budgets, to pay your friends. To pay these gentlemen who work in the office of the best of self-government, these gentlemen, Carles Viver Pi-Sunyer... Live Pi-Sunyer, who charges more than some of the advisors who are sitting here, or at least charges the same as any of you, counselors, and is there in a department that depends on the Presidency and the Economy. These offices for the self-government that are in the end chiringuitos in which you pay salaries to those who help them design the disconnection. But, look, above all, we are not going to give you support to some budgets that the statutory guarantee board has unveiled all that plot you had set up to pay with public money for what only you want to do against the laws. And the Board of State Guarantees, it is very curious that you have made an opinion in which you rule out the legality of the provision..., in which you wanted to spend your money for the referendum. It is very curious, I say, because, if in Madrid, you could have appointed each and every member of the Constitutional Court of Spain, if you had appointed these people, it would be these lords of the Council of Guarantees Statutàries, who have appointed you. [[Greetings.]] Well, look, these gentlemen have said to them: "The departure is not constitutional. They have spoken to you unanimously. All the gentlemen you have appointed to the Board of State Guarantees, unanimously, have said to them: "It is neither constitutional nor statutory. And besides, it has made very clear other things. There is no prose and poetry here, Mr Puigdemont, there is no prose and poetry. Here is evidence, which has made it very clear that referendums are state-owned, and that budgets are a legislative tool that you have to exercise within the framework of your powers. And the Board of State Guarantees has said that it is not for the Generalitat to make any referendums. Therefore, all the hidden games, the final provision 31 and all that you have planned to deal with what the Board of Guarantees Statutàries, namely those you would have appointed as judges before the Madrid Constitutional Court if you had had the opportunity and opportunity, have unanimously said to them: "No, you cannot do that. Therefore, if your own statutory guarantee board, our statutory guarantee board, appointed almost exclusively by you, tells you that no, then we cannot support from Ciutadans, democratically, these budgets, which we believe are not even sufficiently democratic, since they do not comply with the laws in force. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.5.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. There's a word from Mr. Antonio Espinosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.6.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice-President, Councillors, Members, very good afternoon. I begin my speech by pointing out that, in addition to unconstitutional and anti-statutory, these budgets are incoherent and purely fictional. Look, as hope is the last thing that is lost, I thought that perhaps you would take advantage of the parliamentary procedure to improve those, at least a little bit; that you would take advantage of changing unnecessary and superfluous spending for more social spending, as citizens proposed in their multiple amendments, but what is going on. They missed the opportunity. The saying goes: "You can't ask the elm for pears. Far from improving, in the parliamentary phase they have worsened and in the end they will be budgets that will cause more deficit and more debt than originally foreseen. And that is why we are already in advance of our total and frontal opposition to the budgets that have brought us for approval. These budgets do not like citizens or the majority of Catalan society because they focus on secession, rather than giving hope back to the Catalans as a whole. We do not like this budget because it is an instrument..., or, rather, it is not an instrument to boost the economy and employment, to change and transform the economic and social reality of Catalans. And that comes to light, because these partners – their partners – and the government are more concerned and busy with secession than with improving the lives of the people of Catalonia. These budgets are not used to empower businesses and their ability to create jobs, to transform the public administration by reducing its cost and making it more efficient and more muscular, to reduce and simplify administrative structures and thus make more efficient use of human and economic resources. But let me explain to you why this is an incoherent budget. It is because, beyond the numbers, a budget should be, should be due to a political project, or should respond at least to important coincidences on social, economic or fiscal issues that the groups that support it should support. But none of these conditions exist, because the parliamentary groups that support the Government of the Generalitat only agree on one thing: in the desire to separate themselves from the Spanish and to get us out of Europe. It is enough to observe these budgets and their accompanying tax law to see the inconsistency to which I refer. Taxes are, for the Government and its partners, a puzzle. They are unable to establish an integral model, because the old Convergence has its own model; Esquerra, its own; the CUP, another different and opposite good. And in the face of this, what can they do? Well, what they do, huh? : put patches, pieces, that deteriorate and make the tax system inconsistent. The result, the final result, is a fiscal Frankenstein. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, the Catalan tax system resulting from these budgets and its accompanying law is a monstrous Frankenstein whose consequence is that Catalans are among the Spaniards who pay the most taxes and fees. We also believe that these are precisely fictional budgets; fictional budgets, because it is going to prove how the revenues presented to us and the expenses proposed to us do not respond much less to reality. And we already know that, as has been shown in the closing of the 2016 exercise. Look, do you know that the pile of funds that have been approved to satisfy the CUP are going to incur more debt? Of course they do. Do you know that it will increase the deficit, and instead of 0.7, it will be about 1.3? Of course they do, but it's financed with extraordinary credit and forward. Do you know that it will increase the debt by more than 77,500_million? Of course, but nothing happens either, it will be financed with more FLA and our children will pay for it. If at least the fiscal effort and the greater debt served to have better health and education, perhaps it would be worth it, but if we compare the financing of health and education we are behind many autonomous communities with very similar funding. Look, ladies and gentlemen, we certainly have a favourable economic situation, but it is not the result, it is not the result of the government's action, of the government's effort; it is due, and you know it, to an internal devaluation; it is due to the strong and painful adjustment of wages, and it is due to the favourable international situation, with very low central bank types, very low risk premium, depreciation of the euro – which, by the way, is already rising; to see how they contemplate that – and particularly low fuel prices, which are also rising. In short, ladies and gentlemen, our economy depends excessively on the international economic situation, and the Government would have to encourage the structural changes that the Catalan economy needs. And the Catalan economy needs, above all, to improve the gap it maintains with advanced economies, in terms of employment, productivity and competitiveness. And that is precisely what reminds us of the recent regional competitiveness report of the European Union, where we are told that Catalonia has suffered a serious deterioration in recent years and is below the European average. Instead of encouraging the structural changes we need, the budgets are heading in the opposite direction. And, for example, support for entrepreneurship and business development decreases by EUR 1.2 million – by EUR 2.5; official credit for businesses decreases by EUR 57 million – by EUR 6 per cent less. Curiously, investments are constantly being requested from Renfe and Adif in Rodalies, and the Generalitat's investment in productive infrastructure, in railway infrastructure, has decreased by 389_million– a 32_per_cent. In short, four are the main reasons for opposing the budgets: firstly, we do not want to allocate a single euro to the political project of rupture and separation from the rest of Spain; secondly, it is not the budgets that Catalonia and Catalans need to promote equal opportunities and combat poverty and inequalities; thirdly, it does not address the inevitable and necessary rationalization and savings of public administrations, companies and entities in order to make an administration and a more efficient public sector, eliminating bureaucracy, eliminating administrative duplication and chiringuitos; fourthly, it is not the incentive to the growth of the economy and employment that favors the prosperity and well-being of Catalans. I'll finish it. He said you can't ask the elm for pears. You can no longer be asked to change your priorities; you are the ones who are and it is not worth losing a minute more in it. What we Catalans have to do is change government. From Citizens we want to offer Catalans an alternative: an alternative government that prioritizes social policies and economic recovery; a government that dares to reorganize the public administration to eliminate superfluous spending; a government that abandons separatist debate and prioritizes the negotiation, for example, of a new financing law. As you have endeavoured to go from defeat to defeat until the final defeat, all we have left is to ask you to put the ballot boxes as soon as possible, yes, but legally – legally –; to convene a new election soon, sooner rather than later. And to the citizens we want to ask, to the citizens of Catalonia we want to ask that with their votes they place them where they deserve: in the opposition. Thank you, President; thank you, advisers; thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.7.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Spiny. Next, in order to defend the papers presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the word Ms.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.8.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, President, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, and all those who accompany us or are listening to us from one side. Miri, almost three months after starting the year, today we do the debate and tomorrow vote on the assumptions for 2017. Again, you're late. As a matter of fact, we have been able to make a deal as it is, a deal that is relevant to such an important law; not as in other cases where you seem to want to deprive us of just this debate that we have been able to make these months. And I say we arrive late, three months later, with a presuppositional prorogation that you will agree with me that it does not favor government action, does not favor people, nor does it favor citizens, businesses or entities, that are pending in many cases of definitive approval of a presupposition. And, look, you don't get there in time because they decided to have a governing partner who is the CUP, with whom they share some things, but with whom they differ from many others, and this causes in the country instability and uncertainty, which is not good for us, it is not good for the economy, but it is not good for the policies that could be promoted. The truth is that we have seen, moreover, in the parliamentary process, that this uncertainty and instability has worsened, because we were able, therefore, to prove to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy that some, to be careful, say, many of the elements of the opposition were finally approved. Therefore, we do not know whether the presumption will finally be approved tomorrow and what the presumption will be approved, whether it will be a presumption that will please the president or not, because, in reality, the incorporation of 1,200 items, will understand you, therefore, that it makes doubt that it is a presumption that at least to the Group of Joints for the Yes pleases you. Therefore, a 2017 that will again enlarge the column of the delays, the column of the incompliments and the column of the work that do not well make you; for you, for the election that they make of your partner, or, in any case, for something that I would also like to say to you. Before yesterday, or yesterday, if I don't recall wrongly, the president and vice president signed an article in a diary in which they called for dialogue. And it's good that they do. And they have to. And, more than that, you should also exercise it, because here, in this Parliament, with whom least you talk is with opposition groups that we think are different from you, that we do not share their model of society or share their full route. Maybe if I did, we'd be in another situation. But you, just, and I've said it many times, Vice President, have just wanted to talk to the UPC. Entering the background of the assumptions, unfortunately we have recently been able to know different reports of international European bodies that do not leave a good place in Catalonia. And that is not, we say, to be satisfied; we are not, since the opposition, neither: we want the country to work well. Miri, just a few data, to put us in, because when we talk about a premise in the end we talk about the priorities a government has to face the challenges and problems a country has. So, look, the OECD tells us that, in poor, and especially in poor children, we are very much above the European Union; it makes clear to us that we do not have child policies that fight against this. For what it does to spending per child we dedicate to it 0.9 of the GDP, while the Spanish medium is of the '1,4 or the European, of the 2.2. He talks to us about our very important job precariousness; yes, it slows down, but it grows precariousness. And at this point, we're already stuck with the poor worker. We have a hard problem with this, which you are not facing. They also talk about the hard problem of the long-lasting weather. Or dropping out of school; that it is true that it improves – it improves – but we follow very much over the middle of the European Union, and it increases by 1.4 points in those poorest children. And this is an element that worries us, because it keeps confirming how inequality increases in our country. But we also had knowledge of the latest report on regional competitiveness, which I was able to talk about, we were able to talk about it in the final plenary. In other words, this report of regional competitiveness, which in general terms is much worse than it was six years ago, which we lose eleven positions in relation to three years ago – we fall from heading 153 to 142 – and that the only one, really, sets where we approve in a peaceful way is in salvation. It's true, we have a good system of salvation. Surely not because we have reversed the great bulk of our retail; because we have great professionals and because for a long time there has been an important work done in this system. But, look, I wanted to give him a date that's not so good at salvation. When we talk about pharmacy spending in Catalonia per capita it turns out that we have it at 144.43_euros and, in change, the Spanish midwife is 200.18. The fact is, it's not all good for salvation either. And the waiting lists know you don't mean a positive data. But in any case, it is the only element on regional competitiveness where we have an excellent given; in the rest, the middle is the index 48,6_about_cent. These are data that should be of concern to us. I, frankly, to the counselors who are here... I would look worried, and what I would like is for the relevant departments to be working at these times to solve these problems, because when a report from the European Union tells us these things, so I think the seriousness and rigour of a government would be to make sure that we see how, with the resources we have, we can improve these data. Look, you're on the initial assumption that you'll be presenting us in November, honestly, as we said, we don't think you're responding to the country's problems; not the problems that more tell us these reports in such a strong way. We told them not to reverse the bulk of the retail trade, despite the fact that there is a better economic situation and an increase in income; we do not believe that there is a decisive bet for the fight against inequality and social cohesion, as the OECD says, and above all for the public sector to be all about the private sector, the families; that families are the ones that solve the problems that you are not resolving. And I'm saying it this way, and I'm setting two examples, and we've already talked about them. One has to see the addiction. Listen to me, we are the autonomous community with the most list of hope from all over the State, with the index of higher list of hope, and, on the other hand, we have 6,742 places of residence and free day centres. They'll explain this to me... how you put it before a family member who needs a place of center day when we have it available and we're unable to make them available. That doesn't make sense. And you should do, give a clear and strong answer to this element. And, therefore, while this does not happen, to women, generally, that we are the ones who end up looking after and caring for the dependents and the great people, therefore, get together and make progress difficult in our professional life. The other thing is education. In education, you are the most detailed in the years of the crisis of the European Union. But, on the other hand, another time – there is always a "against" – we are the country of the European Union where family spending on education grows the most; let's go back to the two speeds: it lowers the public sector, but the private sector, the family that can afford it, increases the expenditure on education. Look, and more importantly, there's an important element that says some of the reports, that is that the Catalan education system sins from a series of frailties that prevent children with more difficulties from reaching the levels of their partners. Again, two speeding. That's what you're promoting with your assumptions. And not to talk about the zero_euros in bressol schools that they keep in the presuppost. And we could, I think, agree that it's a key stage in a person's life; so you're still putting zero euros in it. And they know very well that 2012 and 2014 were matches that were diverted or derived – using the verb they wanted – to pay for other things. And they are not demagogic; we are not criticizing the concerted school, what we say is that there was a compromise of this Parliament, which approved a law of assumptions where there were parties for schools to break and you carried them to dedicate them to other things. Look, complementing the laws of Parliament and, above all, prioritizing those things that are really important, and the schools are, and you're not doing that. Therefore, we would ask you with a little seriousness, because at the end of the day, who is left at home, they will be the women again, and we will punish and restrict the professional life of the women, who will have to stay home to take care of children, or to take care of dependents, or to take care of the great people. The second reason we gave them at that point in time was that we didn't think there was a clear bet on economic development, on a new model of economic development based on knowledge – and I have here Councillor Baiget – because, if that were the case, they would have increased university resources. They were asked by the Rectors: the Rectors asked, in a statement, 100_million euros more! Home, from 23,000_million euros in non-financial expenditure..., man, it's a pretty small percent. They could have put it down. It's that, in fact, knowledge, research, that we all agree that excellence is in our country, that's on which we should base our economy in order to get out of the crisis, huh? , we could devote 100 million euros to it, 100_million euros. It's not so much! It's just they don't dedicate it to it, that's all. It's just that you really don't believe it. We're lucky this university system is holding up, but one day it'll end up giving us a problem. And you, counselor, you know that. Please, put resources where we really need them. Because, in the end, what we end up thinking is that you are living from inertia – living from inertia – and a low cost model in which, by force of lowering wages and costs, the country was pulling. And, besides, we see, because it's the OECD telling us, that we have a lot of precarious work. So, what are we competing for? Do we know or are we competing in wage and cost reductions? This is an answer that you clearly should give us. And the third point, the policies of cohesion and territorial imbalance that exist in this country. I told them the other time, but I'll give them some more. The most unpopulated regions are the Pyrenees and the Lands of the Ebre. And they've experienced a public investment drop of 80 and 86 percent. But if we go to private investment, that's the one you see in Catalonia and that you will have the ability to drive with a strategy of country that we believe you don't have, it turns out that when we go to look at the data for 2015 – the 2016 has been presented to you by Councillor Baiget but not territorializations – the ones I have information and action, they say that of the investments for 2015, that there were fifty-four projects, one went to the Ebro and cap to the Pyrenees – cap. And if I'm going to look for the trades with a higher stake, which is what I'm going to do... well, the logic would be: "Let's go find who are the worst trades, let's go see where..., there we can go to look for foreign investments. So, when we go looking for these comarques, the ones that have the most time – Baix Camp, Baix Empordà, Baix Penedès, Garraf or Montsià – they didn't get any foreign investment in 2015. And others, like the Tarragonese, the Jungle or the Anoia, an inversion. So, it's that you have the ability to manage some investments, to go looking for investments, but we need a certain country strategy. Miri, do it like that, Counsellor Baiget. [[The speaker makes the gesture of asking calmly with his hand.]] So, better infrastructure, better intelligent communications... Clearly, we need to put conditions all over the country to come in reverse. If we don't, it happens, that 81,1_percent of the foreign investment goes to the metropolitan area. It's not our country model, honestly. In short, we do not share the two-speed society model that you have; we do not share a model of society that goes beyond responsibility to families and, therefore, makes the public sector smaller; we do not share a model of society, as we have said, that does not require more effort from those who have more, and we do not share a model of society or a model of country that is territorially unbalanced. [[Widow's remorse.]] That's what came out of his initial premise. I know you're tired of listening to this. Clearly, they're tired because what would please them the most is that you came to say how fanciful they are. But it seems to me that with the assumption that they present us today – and that they presented us and that they have changed, and now I will talk about it, at the length of the process – we cannot come here to applaud them. Look, what happened in the parliamentary process is unprecedented and unusual in this Parliament, unprecedented and unusual in democracy: 1,200 items of opposition were approved. This is nothing more than the reflection of his instability and his uncertainty and his lack of ability to seek agreements. Of the 1,200, 800 of the PSC, which we were going to do... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, 800 of the PSC we were going to do to try to improve these aspects that I gave them, especially in the area of social emergence and economic development. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. And the question we should be asking here and what we are asking ourselves is: how does the Government intend to complete with these approved proposals, which are already part of the opinion, unless the CUP, which does not share, I understand, the model of conservative society of this Government, is in reverse. But, as I don't think so, because it looks like he shares this model, so I guess he'll confirm his votes, and so we'll approve these 1,200 items. What will the government do? Because, listen to one thing, it is their responsibility, it is the Government, to complete what this Parliament approves. It is a law of presuppositions, the most important that this Parliament approves. I suppose it's complicated. It's just that I don't want to think... I don't want to put on another weaver, we don't want to put on another weaver. But, of course, you're now running, making fun of them because we don't have enough resources. So, miri, one idea: they vote in favour of the SGP tax reform reviews, 800_million more euros, and they can move forward with some of our reviews. Or, listen'm, they do what they have proposed to the CUP, with their funds: debt us. Because what they've done with the UPC is, we need to approve some funds, right? , because the CUP is happy, because it approves of our assumptions, indebt us. That's what you do. So, we give him the same: if he has to complete a law, he's in debt. It's a proposal and an action that they've already raised with the CUP, that they've already put on the table. So, do it with the rest, too! But, look, the one who knows us harder than this debate about these approved items – and that you laugh and repeat one and the other – is that you can't complete it, because, in the end, additional arrangements that speak out of the presuppositional availabilities, that, look, listen to me, is not very concrete. Miri, "from the presuppositional availabilities, I mean this: from within. It's his problem. You have to, from these presuppositional dispositions, therefore, make them complete. And you'll know, the responsibility is the government, not the opposition, I'd just miss it! But the hardest thing he knows about us is the least they do to the opposition when these items are approved. Do you know why? Because you, who have, too, said, by active and passive, is to complement the thirty-first additional provision on the reference. And, of course, I'm saying, why is it one yes and the other no? Why this arbitrariness? Don't get along. We don't understand why we do and we don't. Certainly because the thirty-one additional provision was a sine qua non condition for the UPC to vote on the assumptions, and therefore, yes or no, even though it is neither statutory nor constitutional, even though the Board of Guarantees has said that, as it is drafted, it cannot be put in because we are not competent to make a reference. It's the same, like the CUP asks us, we have to pose. That's what's hard on us. And you will also be able to say to me: "No, well, it was on our election program. It's something they always say, isn't it? « I was on our election program. Our commitment to the citizens. Miri, Junts per el Si electoral program: don't talk about reference. Block 1 – Block 1 –, "The Full Road to Independence; Block 2, "The State Structures; Block 3... – and Block 2 is very long – Block 3, "Catalonia, New State of Europe". It is that you have already decided that the Catalan people would decide that yes, because the 27-S more than 50 percent of the citizens did not vote independence forces. After the parliamentary result is another, but no more than 50 percent of the citizens voted for independence parties. So, it wasn't on his election program. Why do they complete the additional provision or do they want to complete the thirty-first additional provision and not the others? Why, listen to me, do you know what's going on? That in this election program they did talk about those who coincide with many of the PSC's reviews. Miri: « Promote a cohesive society that supports families, 1.1.1; « Make a country committed to childhood and adolescence, 1.1.3; « Promote an inclusive education system, 1.4.5; « Promote innovation, 2.3.2. They all coincide, from their election program, with ideas that the PSC does. Why not complete them, and, in change, yes the thirty-first additional provision of the CUP, which is not in your election program? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I, look, actually... I know, they've come back, we've changed screens, because of their own tactical interest, I imagine, but what you're supposed to do, really, is stop us from tiring and completing at least what you've compromised to do with these actions, which in some cases coincide with proposals made by the PSC. I'm done. Mirin, honestly, huh? After all this baton ball we've seen in this parliamentary process, these opposition approved items, which had never passed, which is not one or three, or god, it's that it's 1,200, it's that it's many, it's that it's very big what happened, but to you, as it's all the same, but it's very big what happened. So, look, I would say to you that what you should do, Vice President, is to rule; indeed, it is your responsibility and your obligation: to rule, to approve assumptions, to execute them. Things as basic as these. So, that's what you should do. Above all, because this is the best guarantee for the country, present and future. Look, you guys talk so often about what we're going to build a better country, I want to tell you that new and better aren't the same, huh? "It will be new and it will be better. It doesn't have to be – it doesn't have to be. And, really, you don't have a lot of credentials to say it's gonna be better than you built. I, look, to which I just referred: I want to show that we can do things better, and the best way to show that we can do things better in the future is to make them good today. And they have an opportunity: this premise, with these approved statements. Do it. They do that. Honestly, they have an opportunity. In fact, I think we need to improve against these disastrous facts that constantly tell us these international reports, that they are not Spanish, that they are international, already to put it more at their side, to their band. So, they're doing a little bit of a case. I believe that, in the end, building a country more just for people and with more opportunities is what we all surely want or can agree in this Parliament. But, frankly, we don't have much hope; surely, because of the riallets that the government also does when someone from the opposition talks and says things that they don't like. We do not share, you know, the model of society that you defend, a conservative model that already sees the Pujol era and that we have not been able to change. A model of two speedings: who can, is paid and is caught up; who cannot, will not get involved. And they say the dice, they don't say the Socialist Group. It expands the public sector, carrying families and women, above all, these family charges. He doesn't ask for any more effort than they have. I no longer wanted to enter the tax reform, but it is clear that they do not ask for it. They have the opportunity to vote in favour of it and not to ally themselves with the PP; in this case, they do dialogue and pact, in short, in tax reform. I do not agree with the PP, and I approve this tax reform that will generate more tickets and we can dedicate it to making it more social emergence than you, that in the end you are engaging a more unequal and more impoverished society, without country strategy, with a totally unbalanced territory. In short, you cannot endorse this assumption that you present, yes, obviously, the approved statements of the PSC, and those that are very similar to those of the PSC, basically those of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. But I would do them a prec, or a suggestion, before it's over, that we've got a minute left, and I'm done torturing them. [[someone]] : look, vote« yes – vote« yes – to these reviews on the tax reform of the PSC; complement the law that comes from this Parliament, complete it entirely, please, it is your obligation, and we would give everyone a bit of rigour. Miri, now that this statement has been made by two hundred jurists, who say that we should make more sense of justice and more rigour than we do from the Parliament, you can at least complete this rigour by making the laws complete; by making the motions available here complete. Therefore, they execute all the assumptions – everything, everything – everything they have; they answer the needs and the problems that the citizens have, and, ultimately, build on this assumptions that will take place tomorrow, or not, but we hope that it will take place... – because, clearly, in this country, how it can pass from everything – even though they do not like the assumptions that it takes, I hope that the able to develop, that the able to execute, to build a better country, now and today. I think they have a great opportunity, and what they should do is try not to waste it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.9.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.10.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, Vice-President, Government, Members, today we are attending the final debate on certain assumptions that we have said since the beginning that they were approved from the very beginning of their presentation. In fact, they were approved, what was their content, long before they came forward. They had been approved since the day that President Puigdemont announced the question of trust and threatened the CUP to make them responsible for the derailment of the process if they did not give him confidence and did not sign a blank cheque to the assumptions. That's how it happened, badly. Because anyone who has negotiated knows that if one of the parties is not in a position to bear the costs of the disagreement, there is no negotiation, there is only accession; there is no pact, there is only agreement. And that's exactly what happened with these assumptions. This, this reality, has been the guarantee of having from the first moment of the votes of the CUP, which has led Vice President Junqueras to what we have denounced all opposition groups: the absolute lack of dialogue, of negotiation. This lock that even at some point came to surprise the same president of the Generality. And I have to tell you that another assumption was possible, but the move to restrict the negotiation to the CUP and Juntes per el Si has weakened the possibilities of building an alternate assumption, a assumption with social bias. And, in this sense, I must congratulate Vice President Junqueras, who has made his own play of the best Cardinal Mazzarino, eh? The discussion of assumptions has not been a debate on how to deal with the situation of social emergence. Since the beginning, there has been only one more piece of the gear of a new full-path of the process, a full-path of the process that we clearly separate from and distinguish from what independence is or what sovereignty is. The process is the constant instrumentalization of sovereignism, with a full path that is constantly mutating, like bacteria, but always in the service of a strategy: who day passes, year-on-year, Government preserves. It has been this reality that has made this assumption and this debate a particularly clever and kafkia premise. Because it's smart that the assumptions are approved with the votes of a political force that qualifies them as little social, if not the assumptions that Catalonia needs, and even imputed them to be the children of a political chant. And Kafkià is that in the committee debate – the friend Alicia Romero has already said – has approved more than 1,200 items against the will of the Government and Junts for the Yes, and that, after being approved, the Junts for the Yes spokesman says that they will not complement, because, according to him, there is a lack of resources. No, sir: there are sufficient resources in this country; just find them, with a tax reform that makes you pay more than you have, to meet the needs of those who need it most. But if it's smart and kafkia for that, it's even more so because, fixed 'you, the assumption you have agreed on in gestures with the CUP, but in fiscal and economic policies you have agreed with the PP, with Ciutadans, with the right of all life, including concerts with elites. That's the reality. That's why I insist that we're before some assumptions that are unique to history, and not exactly positive. In the debate to the totality we have already had the opportunity, Catalonia Yes it is Pot, to explain our reasons for our quest. I will not reproduce them now, but let me tell you that during the parliamentary process, the language of Catalonia has been maintained. Yes, it is possible to present that theme to the totality. These continue to be submissive assumptions, politically subservient to a law of presupposition. It's true, they're dressed in disobedience. It is a disobedience of stone cart, because you have come to sell that it is repealing the Catalan law of estabilitation, while applying disciplinedly the Spanish law of estabilitation. It is a curious disobedience, its; it is a disobedience submissive. They're a number of continuist assumptions, for lack of social policies. But that's not what we say, an opposition group; social entities have said it, for example, in a recent critical journalistic work. I want to quote some opinions. Rosa Cañadell, from USTEC : "The educational assumptions are insufficient and do not reverse, by any means, the details that have been made to Catalonia nor the classist character of the policies of the department. Teresa Crespo, from ECAS : "There are situations of difficult vulnerability that have no answer in the assumptions. Patrícia Cantarell, spokesperson for the Zero-Justicia Global Poverty Platform: "The level of social investment for retailing has not been recovered. Àlex Guillamón, coordinator of Entrepobles : « The premise of cooperation is at the mercy of almost all other autonomous communities. And so up to twenty critical opinions of different social entities, which we could summarise in the opinion of Josep Manel Busqueta, member of the Taifa Seminar, who literally says: "These assumptions have remained in the neo-liberal parameters conducive to austerity. So, the truth is, we're doing all these words. It is especially difficult for the government to resist recognizing the objective right-wing character of guaranteed citizenship income. The government is refusing, at least at the moment, to guarantee this service to people who, despite having a job, having a job, are so precarious that their tickets do not arrive at the end of the guaranteed income. It is about poor workers, in women, because the vast majority are women who in many cases have children in charge. That is why unions and social entities have described the government's proposal as insufficient and require recognition of the guaranteed income for these poor workers. And when it seemed that an agreement could be reached, we find that the Vice President of the Government disallows his councillor for Social Affairs, because it turns out that there do not seem to be enough resources to bring forward this guaranteed income of citizenship. These are resigned assumptions; you are resigned to keep the details while you are refusing to do the tax reform to make the most of what you have to pay for social needs. And, besides, they're fictitious assumptions, you know that; for example, in the matter of entrances. They don't have any kind of credibility! Plant a 20_per_cent increase in the inheritance and donation tax, when the 2016 recap has been reduced by 10_per_cent! And fictitious spending: you present us with unfunded spending of EUR 22,610_million for 2017, while the 2016 defined assumption, the prolongation, with changes and expenditure realized, already exceeds EUR 24,896_million, much more. You know, and as far as the government is aware, the compliment of its assumptions and some of the parties, for example those which it has agreed with the CUP, is conditional upon a future debt to be authorized to the Spanish government. The waiter has not finished, because, as things stand, we can find ourselves with a _month of July or September in which, the same week or the same day that in the morning is called to widespread disobedience, at the end of the day it is in Madrid that the debt is authorized to comply with the assumption of 2017. It wouldn't be the first time that it happened, because that's how he closed the 2016 premise, with the 480_millions that Mr. Junqueras negotiated with Mr. Montoro a late one, that in the morning it turned out he was yelling at us all in a position of disobedience. Miri, the only way to make these more social assumptions short term, sure, sure, is to push forward a tax reform, the tax reform that we have proposed to different groups of this chamber: us, the Socialist Party, the CUP. And this is the reason why we have linked the debate of assumptions to the debate, too, of the Tax Measures Act. In the debate, papers have been incorporated, no doubt, but the government says it will not comply. And from now on we are warning you one thing: from everything that comes out of this Parliament we will demand its compliment, starting with the government's obligation to restore public financing of municipal schools and guarantee an economic module of at least 1,600 euros square/year, with a progressive increase commitment up to 1,800. It is urgent and justifiable to reverse the situation of abuse of the zero-three-year educational stage and extortion of the municipality that is practicing this government. It is necessary to reverse the barbarity perpetrated by former Councillor Rigau, who spent the parties aimed at public schools to finance concerts with educational schools. You've... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, to you, that you used the term post-truth, but the truth is that it was spent on something else that was in the assumptions. One more year, the presupposition-referendum relationship. One more year – and now there's four in a row, huh? , it is said soon – there has been the perverse instrumentalization of legitimate sovereignist aspirations to impose scarcely social assumptions. Together for the Yes has imposed the report that if there are no presuppositions – which means "its presuppositions" – there is no reference to it. And the CUP has replied that if there are no guarantees of reference – that the guarantees are gestures at the moment – there is no presupposition. Let's repeat another time, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, that reference and social assumptions cannot be interccanviable fish, it is not possible: social assumptions yes, with tax reform to finance them, and also reference. It is already clear to these developments that these assumptions do not bring any more guarantees to the celebration of the referendum. In order to celebrate the referendum it was not necessary to do the gesture that brought us so many problems, of the thirty-first additional arrangement, which was only aimed at justifying the vote of the... [[Funnel veils]] , yes, the CUP's vote on the assumptions. But with the thirty-one additional arrangement, what has happened throughout the legislature: they make gestures of disobedience directed at the self-consumption, which are then not fulfilled, then they are kept in a jail and if I've seen you I don't remember. I want to remind them: it passed with the resolution of 9 November – do they remember it? – the one that was aimed at saving the candidate Mas and that had a content that said: "We disobey the Constitutional Court, of which we do not recognize the legitimacy. And then the Catalan government did not stop going to the Constitutional Court to ask for his employment, among other things, because to go to the Strasbourg courts to go to the Constitutional Court. Then you're all day with this dry water issue, aren't you? That's impossible. He went back to the May 2016 motion, which reiterated the 9-N disobedience commitments; a motion that, like all of these, is at the mercy of approved motions. The same went with the conclusions of the Committee on the Process, which, neither more nor less, you agreed to create an absolute power not under democratic control. Fortunately, its contents, in this aspect... the warmest is in the water. And the past time has also passed with the resolutions of the general policy debate aimed at saving the 2017 presupposition. All these resolutions and motions have three common threads: one, call for disobedience; two, once approved, end up in a coven; three, they have only served the strategy of who spends a year in office, government preserves, which lasts so long since 2012. Now we have an additional arrangement that, as in other cases, is rotating like a veritable boomerang against us. In this case, the boomerang is in the form of a unanimous opinion of the Board of State Guarantees, which does not only declare it contrary to the Constitution, but also to the Statute. Since the first moment our group has told you that it was absolutely unnecessary and absurd, this additional provision, we have said it and the opinion of the Council of Statutory Guarantees highlights it, because there are sufficient mechanisms as for, when the realization of a referendum that can be celebrated, there are parties to be able to finance it. But as it was about making gestures to justify the "yes to the assumptions, come on, let's stay here. And absurdly, because it turns out that in the end it has achieved the opposite effect, because it has managed that an organization like the Council of State Guarantees, which rely on this Parliament, tell them that you are doing the fatal things; not bad, no, fatal. And that they're throwing stones at their very roof and putting at risk those that we're working hard to get the reference work done right away. From this perspective, this moment comes, we have to get out of this renaissance. And I see no other possibility than to respect the advice of the Board of State Guarantees, because the contrary would be not to respect the Parliament. If we do not respect the advice of the Council of State Guarantees, we do not respect the Parliament of Catalonia and we cannot ask anyone to respect us. That is why our group has put forward a substitutability to try to get out of this situation in which some of us have been stupid, because we do not need a substitutability; a substitutability that confirms Parliament's commitment to the referendum, which reinforces the financial guarantees of the referendum and which respects the opinion adopted unanimously for the Council of State Guarantees. And already the advances that are completely unacceptable to us the Junts for the Yes, because, in the measure that it is an add-on, involves the maintenance of the initial text and returns to another time to what you have us used to: say one thing and the counter. And that's not possible. There has come a time when you no longer feel like continuing, Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, with this attitude of confusion, of disobedience of stone, of astuteness that every time you assemble more to deception and to the political stage. The Catalonian Parliament cannot degrade until we vote tomorrow on a law of assumptions which in such an important thing as the subject of the reference says one thing in an article, in a paragraph, and in the following article says exactly the contract. Do not take us to this level of degradation, which we have already passed all the tolerable limits from this point of view. It's been a long time. Miri, those who have decided to give the vote in favor of scarcely social assumptions know, and they know it perfectly well, that this does not guarantee the celebration of the referendum. Why do you know that? Why say it Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, that it has already advanced that these assumptions from the beginning were approved? No, no, Why is it that you happen to be repeating – the hamster, huh? – giving turns to the same theme. I want to remember that with the assumption..., I think that with the assumption of 2017 it can get to pass exactly the same as with the assumption of 2014 and 2015. Record it, huh? : 2014 had to be the last autonomic assumptions. The words, concretely, of the head of the opposition and, at the same time, the majority of the government – it seems that this of the dual political life, to the vice president, sees it from lluny; it is not from now on, since he is vice president, already the practice of some time ago, it was not of the opposition and also the main support of the government –..., in his moment he said that he was eating the retails of 2014 and the sale of an important part of the assets – that one day someone will have to give explanations of this Ruinous play for the arches of the Generality –, if he ate, because they were the last autonomous assumptions, the ones of 2014. Listen, so, it's been 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, and we're exactly the same. Only those who play a certain role have changed. But 2015 was once again the game, 2016 was a bit of a spat out the machine of the process, and now we're going to have the same idea again: "No, it's essential to vote on these assumptions, because without these assumptions there is no reference. It's a trap that you have repeated many and many times, that wears out a little. And maybe they change a little bit of strategy in this sense, because three years later they repeat the game, they repeat the game to impose assumptions that even those who vote for them consider them antisocial and the children of a political chant, and all in name only, strictly, of the reference. Mr. President, Mr. Vice President, from tomorrow you will already have the assumptions, it seems so. You say, "We'll see about that. Truth is, that would be a big surprise, wouldn't it? But, well, I don't know. Yes, it's all possible, of course, life... no, it's all possible, but, go, I'll enjoy listening as I go back and forth, yes, yes, yes, yes, it's converted into a no, no, no. But, well, from tomorrow you'll have some assumptions; and then, what? Because, of course, they'll no longer have an alibi to bring forward the subject of the reference. Will you continue to pass one to the other warm potato? « – Sign it yourself. – No, no, they all signed. It's a hot potato that will soon become a fireball. It's gonna take a lot of time for you to not pass the ball of fire to someone, of course, because you're able to pass it to the first one you find in the canton; it's that you're used to doing it, of course, it's that you've had a lot of experience, five years ago that you've been doing this, so you've certainly acquired skills from this point of view. Then, of course, the government, from tomorrow there will be no excuse. You have the obligation to speak clearly and to tell the citizen what they propose and how they think – as they think – that we will have more strength than the State to pull forward a reference. And here I want to say another time the following, in the name of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot: the pact for the referendum is difficult, very difficult, we know, we have never denied it, but it is legitimate; civil insubmission, if anyone proposes it, is legitimate, but it carries costs and risks that it can explain and assume; what is not legitimate is to make of the cunning process a permanent deception to the citizenry in order to promote policies that are scarcely social and continue to keep the maximum of who spends a year and govern preserves. Look, I think it's time to tell them... because I hope these are the last assumptions of this legislature, but you never know, because it's that anything could happen. You've been pulling drivers straight ahead, straight ahead, straight ahead... I've seen some things happen to them in 2018; well, it wouldn't be the first time they've taken a rabbit out of their hands, they're also specialists, in this sense. I want to tell you one thing: for Catalonia Yes, there are other social assumptions and alternatives that were and are possible. Presumables that place the priority of social emergence, that apothecate for a sustainable economic, social, territorial and environmental model; that reverse retailing and privatization of services; that make guaranteed citizenship income the backbone of a new concept of citizenship; that have a gender perspective, and that apothecate for a culture accessible to the majority. Yeah, I know I'm not very... in this sense, they're not very innovative, these layouts; they're curiously the ones you were wearing on your show. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, but it's the ones who... the warmest is the water; they have to be in the cove of motions and resolutions that they have also approved. To do this, they don't just keep saying words; that is to apply a tax policy that makes you pay more than you have to make all these bets possible. But that's why you forgot. They've forgotten about your show. We'll deal with it tomorrow when we look at the subject of the accompanying law. Tell them, tell them to you and tell them especially to the people of the Republican Left of Catalonia that there is a social majority to make these alternate assumptions come true. We are willing to contribute to making them possible, but before you will have to bury the liberal process once and for all. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.11.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Coscubiala. Mrs. Rigau, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.12.0	President, in relation to... For allusions by Mr Coscubiala. Because we're in a presuppositional debate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.13.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.14.0	... – thank you – and we should be precise. When it comes to the fact that some parties went from children's to concerts, you have to look at the premise and see that one thing is the game of concerts, that there was no transfer, and the other, that of the delegated payment, that were the names of the workers. I am surprised that a trade unionist has doubts as to whether he must comply with the obligation to pay, first of all, the names of the workers, and, second of all, at what did not arrive from Madrid..., it is possible to make a priority – that not a requirement, a priority –, as were the children's lars, from the common contributions of the parliaments. If the government of CiU and CiU as the political force had deprived the children's lars, the deputies – the four of CiU – would not have financed them. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.15.0	Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.16.0	To answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.17.0	For allusions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.18.0	If that's the way it is, yeah. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.19.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.20.0	Thank you. Mrs Rigau, it is clear that a trade unionist and anyone knows that governments have to pay the names of their employees; for example, the names of workers in municipal schools from zero to three years, who were able to cover thanks to the fact that the municipalities have covered the hole that you left behind. Now, I think – I think – that this observation... [[Some applause.]] I think that this observation should have made to Mr Junqueras, that he was explaining to us that with an extended assumption it could not be done anything, and it seems that you could have done everything. I suggest that I give a few lessons to the vice president about how to juggle arts with assumptions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.21.0	For the defense of the papers presented for the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the word the Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.22.0	Thank you very much, President. We approach the final debate of a presumption that will not be the last autonomous presumption, as some wish, but that will be the last presumption of the process, which are radically different things. Because the path chosen in the elaboration of this assumption marks the act of death of the independence process. They coincide in time with an unconstitutional and anti-state process with one of its instruments, the presupposition, also unconstitutional and anti-states. This will be defined. This will be lethal to the process. I, if not, how do you get used to saying in these cases, at the same time. Even the Catalan law itself is not respected. There is no type of dialog on its part; there is only an imposition, and these things can only end badly. You already know the fate where you carry all this; you will not be able to attach, when the time comes, disconnection. Since the 20th of December, which was the first presuppositional debate, many things have passed to Catalonia and also to this Parliament; they have all accelerated the speed of creating the fi, the weakness of this independence process, basically because they have served to make worse the five great structural shortcomings that the process already had: lack of social majority; lack of parliamentary stability; lack of international recovery; lack of a democratic mandate diaphanous, clear, and also lack of a political leadership also clear, round, indisputable. On the lack of a social majority and the lack of a parliamentary standstill, we have already discussed this extensively in the debate of 20 December. On the lack of an international gathering, in this plenary... – also with other parliamentary instruments: appearances, etc. – it was possible, therefore, to prove this lack of international gathering, which provokes to see and remember with nostalgia those times in which a president of the Government of Catalonia could be rejected for the Helmut Kohl or for the Romano Prodi, and not for the Finnish ultra-right, which is what is happening now. [[Widow's remorse.]] But, so, we also talked about it at your time. They will allow us - they will allow me - to focus on this intervention in the two pasts: the lack of a democratic mandate diaphanous, clear, and the lack of a political leadership round, indisputable. You do not have a democratic mandate – explained earlier here – to make the reference. You presented on September 27th that this was the last screen. You've shaped the terms of that plebiscite. The only person on that side of the bench who had the decency to recognize, that election night, that the plebiscite had failed was Antonio Baños, who already knows where he is now. You don't have a mandate to make a reference; you don't have a democratic mandate to make independence. But what they don't have is... to make a trap reference and then independence; because it's a trap reference in the measure that you've already decided the result and are making it match the disconnection. What you do is not democracy, what you do is supremacy, imposition and flagrant lawlessness. It's deeply undemocratic. You have gone from astuteness to the most glaring stupidity, which would be the shortest and most summarized way of saying what you are doing. We're talking leadership. Mirin, five years ago, the Artur But he had to be the leader of the process when he started – well, he had to be the leader of the process and practically of the cosmos, with those open arms with which he presented himself to the elections. The leadership in reality was so low – so low – that the next election had to go from number 4 to the list; the list certainly captivated the interlocutor in our home of the Finnish ultra-right that we said before, Mr. Raül Romeva. This fever, this fever of leadership, was finally demonstrated, in the sense that a party such as the CUP, the ideology of which has a representation that is not above the '1_per_cent of the European Parliament, without much effort, has liquidated that leadership. Now we know more about Artur Mas and his stage of government, which do not come to the case because they have already been further explained. The case is that the lead got liquidated. The next one that touched him, in theory, is the very honorable president of the Generalitat de Catalunya, Mr Puigdemont, who began his singularity, as it is said in footballistic, courageous and hard-working terms, but then, at the first time, he got rid of the list of summonses and never went out to the camp again. Therefore, he also led that it was empty. Before this void, Mr. Junqueras decided that his time had come. The 11th generation of enguany, before the microphones of RAC1, let go of his ideological corpus, in a speech that should remorse the foundations of modern political science. "Junkerism is love," he said. [[Rialles.]] Nor did Charles Jesus of Raticulin say such a great beast. [[Rialles.]] Dadaism – Dadaism –, cultural tradition very much ours, certainly, knew or had left the plastic arts...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.23.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.24.0	... to settle definitively for Catalan politics; after that "junkerism is love, everything was possible. If the fence had been opened, the deliri had been installed, the Dadaism had been located in Catalan politics. And, effectively, without a solution of continuity, and only fifteen days after the "junkerism is love," he came out to the stage of the circus the Arlequi, the great Arlequi Santiago Vidal, who gave us all his repertory of bogeries. In short, the circus was already absolutely unstoppable. Deliris' success has been accelerating. We have had everything in a few weeks: you disauthorizing the Council of State Guarantees; the ANC calling for an Arab Spring menu, of revolution in the street – it must be said, however, before the indifference of the vast majority of Catalan society, which is already beginning to pass from you –; misnamed joint poses, of only two members of himself; democracy of one reading; disqualifications from dojo. But you said the past has reached the highest level of ethical degradation of this sequence of bogies: they decided to launch, grab the cane and launch us, against the opposition, the stone democrat, Mr. Turull, who did not just violate the rights of the deputies, moreover, said that we had to be fined for being attacked. It's a shame I'm not here right now, but I should tell Mr. Turull that I can be proud to be a stone-dipping democrat asking for these things. So, well, it's proven that you have a great ability to turn Catalan politics into a circus, but in the case of the theater you haven't stayed back, because, in the end and in the end, all you've seen in the last five years is the interpretation of an authentic farce: a farce about Spain's alleged abuse of Catalonia. It is a very curious mistreatment, because it turns out that in the last twenty-five years you have agreed, with potential abusers, everything; with Felipe González, with Aznar, with the Zapatero, and, last but not least, in the first stage, with the work reform with Rajoy. Certainly, I've reviewed all those agreements: they never asked about the Mediterranean Corridor, it's curious; they only demanded money, which, by the way, now we know better how they used up. The theatricalization of this kind of maltreatment, supposed to be mistreatment, has also marked, for its part, the highest levels of ethical degradation of Catalan politics. Mr. Artur Mas, comparing himself to the stranger no more or less than Nelson Mandela; Carles Puigdemont, the Catalan Andrew Sakharov, also wants to go to the United States to explain the lack of Spanish democracy and how he is harming himself at our home. Artur Mas, Carles Puigdemont are very special political refugees, they are a unique dissidence in the world: it is the only dissidence in the world that goes with official car and charges 120,000 euros annually and vital. [[Some applause.]] Very honorable President of the Generalitat, I say to you with all my heart: I do not know how I can endure this torture. [[Rialles.]] What a heart! That's a brave thing to do. What a bar! - What a bar! Ladies and gentlemen, this is, in short, the chronicle of what has happened in Catalonia since 20 December, since the first part of the presuppositional debate. And now what? What's in our hands? We have a presupposition that does not give legal certainty, because it is clearly unstated, unconstitutional. We have a premise, moreover, that it does not solve the structural problems that we have in Catalonia on the part of Catalans, their families. It is a presupposition that will not serve in absolute order to prevent Catalonia from continuing to lead the Espanya joint's waiting lists. It is a presupposition that will not serve in absolute order to prevent Catalonia from continuing to feel the autonomous Spanish community with less investment per capita in sanitation. It is a presupposition that will not help prevent Catalonia from continuing to feel the autonomous Spanish community where its citizens are paid more taxes; all the contrary, they will push even more. Yes, it will be a presupposition to continue exploring in the CUP's strategy of discrediting the Squad's Mossos. Yes, it will be a presupposition for spending money on summer structures that are not absolutely useful for anything. This, fortunately, will come to an end soon – well soon. The post-process phase is open: it is an exhausting and absolutely exhausting process; it is necessary to recover the policy; neither the new nor the old, the good policy, the one that serves to unite and not to divide. Look, actually, about 46_percent of Catalans, if you ask them in an inquiry if they are in favor of independence, they say yes; it is an important xifra, but it cannot be compared with 100_percent of Catalans who are concerned about sanitation, education and infrastructure. Why should you focus on 46 and not 100? That they don't get it? 46/100. I can't be no genius – I can't be no genius – I'm afraid I have to review those Sesame neighborhood programs to find out that 100 is more than 46. It's a lot more. Therefore, we ask them to make their priorities clear. Let's talk to the cent_per_cent of the Catalans; let's give it off, let's trust; let's give the Catalans a premise that, as I said before, legal certainty, that it's legal, correct, that it's not a nyap like it's going to be today. Mirin, while in Spain – Spain: I already know that the word... –, Spain turns out that it forms part of the table of the four motor nations of Europe, that it is a cadira that has cost its efforts, also to Catalans, to achieve it, we cannot afford to have a Catalan policy converted into a circus of institutional contempt and division between its citizens; we recover from the good politics. We have not lost hope and we continue to believe in it, we will make every effort to regain agreement between Catalans and we will do everything possible to ensure a future for Catalan families from law-abiding and, of course, also from the dialogue. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.25.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Next, for the defense of the papers presented for the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed, has the word the lady Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.26.0	Newroz perroz bien! Good Newroz to everyone, especially the fighters and fighters from Kurdistan who are celebrating their new year today, despite Turkish police persecution. [[Some applause.]] Precarity in this country is a reality from which people cannot escape; people who curse to build a life project, often, at last, with difficulty to imagine a life. And it is that, despite the economic growth of the government's flag, precariousness is a reality every time more worrying and inequalities persist. The big figures may say that GDP is up or that 2016 was closed with a reduction in the weather, but isn't that enough? If we look at the data, looking at the Barcelona City Council of the year 2016, we will see that not all people looking for work register at the SOC and that, although I have decreased the number of SOC members, those who do it spend more time each time registered at the Occupancy Service, that is to say, trig more to find work. So, at a time of great inequality in the country, these assumptions – we have said – do not make a redistributive effort, nor address public and social policies in full or courageously, as the popular classes of the country need and claim. Is it true that €1,300_million is saved to social policies, but has someone planned to have more money and not to allocate it to social policies? And another question: who was the government's effort to increase tickets? Or, in another way, if we come from, basically, these 1,300_million euros? From the efforts of this government in 2016 or 2017, no. The country needed courageous policies that are not there, redistributive policies that are not there and disprivatizations that are not there. Moreover, we have lived thirty-five years of autonomy where they have gone without privileges, the 4_per_cent versus the 96_per_cent; convergence government policies that the tripartite was also able to modify; for example, with the concerts of the elite schools, renewed the year 2009. And these assumptions continue these policies. In short, in terms of public and social policies, the government has stuck its head under the wing or, said in another way, has done as usual. The CUP - Creed Constituent, with its battery of exmenes, has made an effort to synthesize the main needs of the country, needs planted and procured for various movements and collectivities. He did an exercise in realism laying out ideas that, yes, they pointed out from where it was necessary to draw the money and where it is absolutely necessary to allocate them. With the aim and need to reorient expenditure, reorient it to cover needs, we prioritize the search for economic and administrative legal alternatives that allow for presuppositional reassignments, presuppositional reassignments to foundations or destinations that we consider to be structural and cross-cutting as a country's need. We are talking about social cohesion, national cohesion or environmental sustainability of the country's conjunction and the people who live there. For this reason, the involvement and contribution of all departments was also important. And why? So, because that means a better, sustainable and possible life for most of the population before the bogery of fragmented competition in chains with which no one can live or project a future here. Fragmented competence that we cannot forget that causes more valuable multi-millionaires to the four of us and destroys the Community's fabric and social relations. That's why our papers have been on four tracks. The formation of structural, transversal or global foundations, designed as a means of generating credence throughout the year, present in all departments, so that they can contribute in solidarity to the country's structural needs; strategic bailout of services for the public provision with appropriate means; social cohesion and return guarantees – guaranteed income from citizenship–; public coverage of needs and formative equipment; special sources for the fight against corruption; public coverage of residential needs; support for cooperation; the fight against climate change; natural heritage sources; training of public administration staff in the field of economics and economics. But they have also gone into intra-departmental presuppostary movements to recover public management, to regain control of public services in order to cover social needs. We also made statements in the line of modifying the presuppositional structure that allows you to rationalize it, putting the critical emphasis on the informative shortcomings of thousands of parties with laxa nomenclature. For example, someone has made an effort to calculate how many matches there are under the name ‘Other miscellaneous expenses? Two hundred and fifty-one, worth more than 56 million euros. And, finally, create all those organizations that have to be put into operation in 2017 and that are basic pillars of a new republic. We talk about key publics, and especially in a transitory environment such as the current: Catalan Agency of Social Protection, the Catalan anti-corruption mechanism, a public bank in Catalonia, highways and infrastructure in Catalonia, a land bank, an integral and public emergency device – 112, 061 – among others. From the beginning, we created and built the structural foundations of the recovery of a fork between 10 and 30_per_cent, never of the cent_per_cent, although some agree to say it, of parties and applications such as: the provision of services suitable for foreign media, therefore not of entities of the public sector; the transfer to private enterprises, current transfers or capital, exclude the social initiative; the parties of diets, often applied mostly to the command quadrax with exorbitant wages; the complementary remunerations of eventual fees or supplements to address staff of private concerted centres. And the chapter aside would deserve the parties of buying CTTI servers, from which we have also recovered a percentage. The CTTI was created to have a telecommunications centre that provides as central the set of departments to reduce costs and also in its own way and has become a hub for outsourcing and large contracts with multinationals and various consultants, without meeting efficiency, optimization and economies of scale criteria. In the field of health, money was moved to strengthen public primary care, recovering part of the capital contributions to private foundations and businesses. In terms of teaching, the sector with constant mobilizations from the retail sector, the year 2010, the demands of the better of the educational quality we materialized them by means of the demand for incorporation of 6,200 more. The internalisation of the staff who provide integration services and poor names "vetlers, fooder scholarships or investment in the construction of new educational centres from zero to sixteen years. We have also included the 80_per_cent objective of effective and real public offer of coverage, so that, until this is given, it is not fully financing the direct complements or expenses to the operation of the private centers. The public school in front of the private school. In short, tests to show that it is possible to better guide the expense to dignify the living conditions of the people despite the cotillas of the regime and the troika; it is possible, in the same way that it is possible to touch the privileges of the 4_per_cent, which accumulate at the cost of the 96_per_cent. Despite this, the government and the support group have not accepted any change in the cost of the assumptions. The names ‘assignments to the CUP only respond to the tenth deficit granted to Montoro to principles of unemployment, topall of deficit as a result of debt and austerity, saving reception that focuses on guiding the whole economic policy to pay debt to save the same elites that impelled the economy to the abyss. More than trading with the CUP, it's trading with Montoro. So, as well as accepting some proposals in terms of teaching and rendering guaranteed or the creation of some of the structural foundations – proposals, we repeat, not of the UPC, but of movements and collections, country proposals – the Government has not changed a_millimeter of its initial proposal. Continuity in liberal policies of autonomy. The main problem of the social majority of this country is precariousness, both wage and access to a minimum worthy of which a personal, family and community future can be imagined. There is no independence that I feel if it is not to live with dignity, to redistribute, and that it is not the four of us who always accumulate because of the outsourced expenditure at the expense of extreme public resources that do not want to be managed politically. And we come to the reference, because those who criticize that it is only about the process, they only talk about the process, and they show that there are only two weeks talking about the additional disposition, yes, of which they say: "The Government, from the presuppositional availabilities for 2017, has to enable the necessary parties to guarantee..., in terms of organization and management, to face the referendum process on the future politics of Catalonia. Yes, this additional provision, that of the opinion of the Board of Statutory Guarantees ; Board of Statutory Guarantees which is an organ of autonomous nature and mentality and which has a consultative character that does not allow it to issue binding resolutions. It makes its opinions based on the adequacy of the regulations to the Spanish Constitution. Yes, we are talking about a body that is old for the compliment of a state detailed for the Constitutional Court and not validated for the people of Catalonia. We repeat: state detailed for the Constitutional Court and not voted for the people of Catalonia. It is obvious, therefore, that a reference at this time is incompatible with the Statute, yes. Despite the fact that for forty years the independenceist left has been denouncing the farce of the Transition in solitude, the split is clearly sharpened with the sense of the State and the subsequent ones, such as the Housing ILP, the Law of Equality..., and we could continue for many minutes. Therefore, yes, we can say: the reference is incompatible with this Constitution, which is precisely a constitution that does not recognize democracy or the right of self-determination that we have been demanding for a long time and that we have long denounced that it is not recognized. Yeah, that's right. And allow us, as we speak of the right of self-determination, of the lack of democracy and, therefore, of the right to collect from the peoples, today we have a record for a defender of the right to self-determination of his people, artifex of the process of pa and of the agreements of Divenres Sant, to Northern Ireland – agreements that recognize the right of self-determination of Northern Ireland – that we have today a record for Martin McGuinness, leader of Sinn Féin, who died today. For what we're working on for social transformation and to break the drains of a demophobic state, the reference is the key that opens all the panels. The link, however, that during the months the Government made between the approval of assumptions and the celebration of the referendum is a synthesis that puts on the table that Together for the Yes and the Government have put forward certain political and economic interests to the right to self-determination of the Principality. A chant of all those people who believe in the referendum as they do to resolve the conflict with the Spanish State in a democratic way. The reference that gives the people of this country the opportunity to express themselves in the wake of a binary question: "Does Catalonia want to become an independent republic? Yes or no? « Do you want Catalonia to avenge an independent republic? Yeah, right? Senzill. binary response. And we're done. As concluded, and despite the chanting, and because it is already over, after years of mass, political chanting in this country, the CUP - Creed Constituent gives two positive votes, two conditional votes to compromise the assumptions, in the celebration of the referendum, as they now contain the assumptions. Because the reference is a compromise with the country, it is not a compromise with the CUP. It is a compromise with the whole country, which defends the right to self-determination and the right to express itself democratically. Therefore, it is not a vote for its social content; no, it is not. It is a vote to make the reference and the process free; it is a ‘yes conditional with expiry date' – a ‘yes conditional with expiry date'. We carry months of a back account often uncertain, but now we start an inapplicable back account: there is no further enlargement by September 2017, there is no new screen by September 2017. On March 21, 2013, four years ago, Alex Salmond announced a reference for September 18, 2014; divided_months before, divided. If the referent is Scotland, we're late. So, if it wasn't time for some now, now is the time to be clear: we have data and question. Data, to keep the timing clear; question, to work tirelessly for the "yes or for the "no. As long as the countdown is at work, in the houses, in the street. The political and social actors of the Catalan countries committed to democracy must be active agents in the defence of the right to self-determination. The democratic movement in this country must be able to work from now on for the referendum. The independence movement must be able to work from now on for the "yes to the reference". Because the people mobilized from all these years is who brought us here, and, therefore, the people mobilized is the only guarantee we have. Today the CUP - Constituent cry gives a "yes to democratic rupture, to the convocation of a referendum without asking permission or forgiveness; it gives a "yes to the constituent process. Data and question, why did we propose to overthrow the regime; date and question, why did we propose to build the republic in 2017. And you? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.27.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. Next, to defend the slogan presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.28.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, today's progress. We are making progress on getting more tools, more instruments to promote growth in job creation in this country, to support Catalonia's well-being and to work for social cohesion. We are making progress on this line, but we are also making definite progress towards the completion of the democratic mandate that the citizens of this country have entrusted to us. No one gets away from it – we have said many times, as many as it has been necessary – that these assumptions, which we are finally debating today and hope that we will approve tomorrow, are necessary to face the last stretch of a legislature that has to take us to the polls in order to be able to decide our future freely. Perhaps precisely because of this, once it was known that the reactions were disconnected, they were still more furious than ever. All assumptions, all – these too, of course – assume a political message. And that of this, that of these assumptions, the message that these assumptions convey is clear, clear. They are decisive from many perspectives, but especially from two optics: from the willingness to give response to the imperatives of the present, of one band, and, on the other, also essential, for the construction of the future that our fellow citizens demand. Therefore, from the optics of the present, of today, and the optics of the future, of the immediate tomorrow. We have warned, we have said this before: the final approval of these accounts is transcendent, very transcendent, because of their content– is to say, in the account itself– but also for the reading of the political implications of its own approval. It is not only a question of how we invest resources, but also of how we politically strengthen the Government that must bring us to the referendum or referendum. I mean, it's not as simple as we approve, it's in what circumstances we do it: what and how, the content and the timing, the background and the opportunity. The political situation is exceptional, it is historical, as are all the reasons on which the same agreement of assumptions hinges. Many – many – trusted that this agreement is never produced. In fact, the representatives of the immobiliser bench of this Parliament, at last, wished that you did not agree. They want us to soak up this rock and, therefore, to put this legislature to rest. They won't have this fate. They don't seem to have the luck of us sighing, that this is what the school is called insurmountable to finish the legislature. It won't be like that, on the contrary. It is important, therefore, that we approve, but above all, as we approve, the construction itself of this agreement. Many, it is very important, because it also indicates to us how we have been able to solve the old weberian dichotomy between the ethics of conviction and the ethics of responsibility; it is to say, combining the ethics winged from any situation and from the reptes and the historical circumstances, and the ethics, in change, that results from the situation and the opportunities that are given at a certain time. In other words: we have been able to take advantage of the time to move forward on the road to smooth out political objectives and not to wait forever for all the factors that are essential to achieve the final tape. And that seems a lot more mature to me, it seems a lot more brave to me, it seems a lot more brave than waiting for the final assault. Now they say the cell, but the orthodoxy would say the Palau d'Hivern. Because waiting forever for the assault on the Winter Palau until it has all the circumstances proves that there is no stick and, above all, there is no gain, in absolute, from assaulting it. Simply put, this agreement of assumptions has allowed us to demonstrate that we have been able to do whatever it takes to get to what we believe: ethics of responsibility and ethics of conviction. That happens all the time. This is probably a dichotomy that happens more and more in a context where there is no absolute majority of a single party, of a single group, in this chamber. But it probably happens more in the realm of assumptions, at the time of negotiating assumptions, at the time of deciding the vote for assumptions. And we have shown that with this vote it is possible to combine need and vocation. And the need is concrete in the social challenges that the country is demanding of us: to face today some assumptions that would not have implied an answer to these requests, from our point of view, it would have been a mistake, a failure. Let's get to context. It is true that macroeconomic figures are improving. That's right, most macroeconomic indicators are better. Foreign investment is growing, we are leading export data with six years of growth, and, ultimately, GDP is growing by 3.5_per_cent more than last year and is at 2008 levels, so at levels before the toughest years of the crisis. In short, therefore, the Catalan economy is growing more and better than the Spanish economy. And Mrs Reguant asked: "Is there enough of this? No, that's not enough. Macroeconomic data, statistical data, are not likely to be favorable. There's not enough positive data if we keep talking about denunciations. There's not enough positive data if we keep talking about the weather. There's not enough positive data if we keep talking about families waiting for dependency benefits. Only good macroeconomic data are used if they do not have a replica in the domestic reality, in the domestic realities of the country. And that's exactly the point we've made. That's our challenge. This is the goal we have set for this legislature: to move from numbers to the world, from figures to people. Transfer the economic growth to the families of the country. This is, from a socio-economic point of view, the object of this mandate. To cure the wounds of the crisis, but not only from a palliative perspective, not only from an ad hoc perspective, we need to go further: we need to cure the wounds and clear the scars that these years have left the country, but to do so thinking about laying the foundations for a profound change of the future. We don't want to apply a piece. It is not a question of making pal·liative cures, as we say, of putting marks, but it is a question of building socioeconomic alternatives, model alternatives, of building social guarantees. It is, in short, a question of creating security for the citizenry; it is a question of consolidating a new social land. And that's why we've put up some expanding assumptions, one band, and transformers, the other. Expandius and transformers. These assumptions grow, grow in relation to the previous and grow more than any other assumptions of our environment. They practically grow an 8_per_cent, which cannot be said by any other government of another autonomous community, nor by any other government of another European reality. And this increment, this practically 8_per_cent, is intended entirely for the strengthening of basic social policies; that is, the capdavall is intended to redistribute yields. Therefore, all the growth is used to support the essential areas to give greater coverage to the needs of the citizenry: health, education, social welfare and housing; foundational pillars of well-being, reptes of this society, reptes of this Parliament. It is 1,300_million euros plus– 1,300_million euros plus– that can be allocated to schools, hospitals, benefits, aids, etc. That's to say they can be used to reinforce the basic pillars of the welfare state. And that's a capital effort, it's a foundational effort. Now, there's not enough of that effort. We are aware that there is not enough effort that we can make today. With all the certainty of the world, there is not enough effort to make these assumptions. We are aware that if we do not have the tools that have all the rest of our European states, we will not be able to do much more. The autonomous margin stretched to the maximum, stretched to the limit, stretched to the point of no more power. The problem, therefore, is not economic, the problem is political. Political dependence does not only have an impact on the structural decisions that affect our economic growth capacity, dependence directly affects the families of this country. That's why we want to expand, improve, have all our decision-making capacity – all our decision-making capacity – not just to deal with the effects of the crisis at these times..., that the crisis buffets the popular classes of this country, but above all more capable of decision-making to build the social republic of the right, a republic of social rights. And to guarantee social rights, not only do we need skills – which we also clearly need – but we also need resources. Some people come out here and talk obsessively about the process not to talk about social policies; the others, in change – the others, in change – we want to put the ballot boxes in order to talk about teachers, to talk about teachers, to talk about benefits, as the citizens of this country deserve. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.29.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.30.0	Some, obsessed with not allowing democracy; others, we want democracy in order to be able to decide on the future of this country, to decide on the welfare of the families of this country. And let's go here, don't be mistaken – let's go here. And from today, even more decisively, because the citizens have charged us with a political horizon different from the autonomic mark, they have charged us with a political horizon different. But while, obviously, we have to manage the while. We have a political horizon, a democratic mandate, and we are moving towards the execution of this mandate, but while, obviously, we have to manage today. And that is why we are presenting social assumptions, the most social assumptions, the most social assumptions that this Parliament could see in the present circumstances. And this is not an assertion that they support themselves with proclamations or slogans, it's an affirmation that supports themselves with figures, with data; figures and data that has been well repeated, because too often they are denying the evidence, they try to discuss the figures, which are who they are. And the figures, in short, tell us that 74.7_percent of this budget is earmarked for social expenditure; that three_of_each_four euros are invested in welfare policies, and that, product of this– product of this nearly 75_per_cent and of these three_of_four euros–, can allocate 1,300_million euros to health, education, social welfare and housing. These are the data that explain these assumptions. This is the expansion, the growth of these assumptions that we intend to strengthen these social policies. And we did it, as I said, to manage the while. But these assumptions also have a vocation, a transformative force; transformative in two spheres or two senses, a transformative force, therefore, which is double: of a band, because it draws the path of the ballot box from us draws this way to finish deciding which future policy we want in our country. But, on the other hand, also, because it certifies a model change to the policy prescriptions that had been applied in later years. There's a paradigm shift, a receptor shift. With these assumptions, therefore, we definitely exceed the period of austerity, we definitely exceed the period of detail. And it certifies this growth in social policies, this strengthening of social programs that the Government of the Generality does. But it also certifies it to what we have granted, and which we have incorporated, with the group of the CUP: the creation of these we were interdepartmental presuppositions, that they are defined in relation to the reptes that we have today and that we agree, and that we agree, that, indeed, they are important reptes, transcendental to our society, and that they are also sustained in the values that we want for the republic of the future. These interdepartmental foundations go from social cohesion and the guarantee of return to the fight against climate change, through economic recovery and housing. Therefore, they constitute, in themselves, a true map of the social rights of the future republic. In short, they pursue a greater redistribution of yields; in short, they pursue a greater social justice. And if we're talking about social justice, it wouldn't be complete if we weren't talking about tickets either. Redistributing makes you have a lot to see with the expense, obviously, but you also have to see with the tickets. And in this camp we have to say three things: the first, that the girls' reforms of 2011 until now have allowed us to have 1,200_million euros more for social policies; the second, that today in Parliament there is in the way– and this had never happened in any other period– four bills to create us imposed, among others, for example, on the non-productive goods. And third and last thing, and you know perfectly well, you know perfectly well that where there is more recourse in the field of tickets is in the solution of this gap, of this tax gap that is between what has been raised legislatively and what, finally and finally, is recapped. That's why – and not because it's no game –, that's why the staffing of the Catalan tax agency is expanded with these assumptions. Among other things, effectively, to fight against fraud and tax evasion. Because I understand that this is a shared object for everyone, and if it's not, they say so. In any case, it is for us and, therefore, the strengthening of the Catalan tax agency also took place in this line. These are data, figures, contents of assumptions; they are certain of assumptions. And don't recognize this, get out here and don't recognize all this is cheating. The traps of the presuppositions. Does this expression sound like the traps of the assumptions? So, well, don't recognize, for example, the effort that is made with the guaranteed income of citizenship as an embryo of which we will approve here in Parliament; don't recognize the effort to contract 3,600 teachers to strengthen the teaching of this country; don't recognize that there is a paradigm shift in the management of salvation; don't recognize, for example, that it also contemplates pay..., if you want to plant in this exercise, the pay of public workers... ; however, don't recognize all this is cheating on the assumption. It is also like cheating the assumption to raise 1,190 toasts to the sun; 1,190 items that are toasts to the sun. And they know it perfectly. For a moment it seemed to me that Mrs. Romero, when she came out to defend this, believed it to be true, but it can't be [[Funnel veils]] I can't believe it's true. You know that... your group that has ruled and, therefore, has had governance responsibilities, you know perfectly well that this is toast to the sun. Why, why do you think you can take the resources out so you can finance all this? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Seven thousand million euros, what do they think they're gonna get? This is a very large irresponsibility, which, moreover, contributes to the frustration of the people. Finally, listen to me, we know who the traps are that they want to make in the assumptions, we know who the impediments that we will have from then on, because they have already announced some groups that will bring these assumptions to the Constitutional Court. Certainly, in this area and in this sense, I say that... we probably didn't expect much more, but we know very well that who first announced that he will run to bring these assumptions to the Constitutional Court following precisely the PSC; they tell us deeply. We are told that you are serving as messengers of the Government of the State and striving to be the most applied student of all to say that you will then bring these assumptions to the Constitutional Court. Are you sure you don't sadden them, this paper they're supposed to do? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Are you sure you don't sadden them? In short..., and I'm talking about the question that seems to have centered most of the speeches, although it is a 0.02_per_cent of the assumptions, which is the thirty-one additional arrangement. What Juntes poses for the Yes, what he wants to ensure Juntes for the Yes in these assumptions is that the double way to get to the referendum, is to say, the negotiated referendum, the referendum granted, the referendum agreed with the State, but also, if not, the referendum, are contained in these assumptions. And if they are not reflected both, and if, in particular, the given reference is not sufficiently reflected, it will not be for the determination of Joints for the Yes; in any case, it will be the political responsibility of those who, from today, will vote against this possibility of reference granted and, therefore, from today, will prove that there is in fact no intention – no – of the agreed reference. There's no intention of change...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.31.0	Mr. Torrent, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.32.0	... and the transformation – I finish, President. Two_seconds, just to say, as it began, that today we are definitely moving forward with more social tools, with more tools for the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.33.0	He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.34.0	...economic growth, with more tools for welfare, and above all with more tools for democracy. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-21-3201.35.0	Once the debate is over, the record that the vote on the opinion will take place tomorrow at the end of the government's control session. Therefore, they suspect the session until tomorrow morning to the gods.
