ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.1.0	The session begins, very good morning to everyone. Before starting the session, the report that after the control session, it will be a minute of silence and will read an institutional declaration with the motivation of the floods in Mocoa, Colombia. Thus, the record that, according to Rule 93 of the Rules, the deputy Marta Ribas has delegated her vote to the spokesman of her parliamentary group, Mr Joan Coscubiela. I also inform you that, at the request of the Government, and in accordance with Rule 81.2 of the Rules of Procedure, they have proposed to us the alteration in the order of the oral questions, so that the first question of the Government, on parliamentary support to approve the Generalitat's assumptions for 2018, can substantiate the last of the oral questions; that is, after Question No 9. Can it be approved by consent, this alteration? [[Pause.]] The order of the day, therefore, is modified in this sense. The list of questions, to be answered orally, is included in the file of the Ple. According to Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning, as the first point of the order of the day. [[Ask the Government about the deployment of Law 4/2016, measures to protect the right to housing of persons at risk of residential exclusion]] [[310-00204/11]] He asked the Government about the deployment of the Law 4/2016, of measures to protect the right to housing of persons at risk of residential exclusion, formulated for Mr Marc Solsona, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.2.0	Okay. Good morning, thank you, Madam President. The Honourable Counsel, recently, we have been aware that the State has addressed to the Government of the Generality a statement questioning the constitutionality of the separate articles of Law 4/2016, of measures to protect the right to housing of persons who are at risk of residential exclusion. In fact, the communication practically questions the whole law from top to bottom. And so, this is the expected step because, from here to six months as well as at most, the State presents another recourse for unconstitutionality and the petition for suspension, as was already done with the Law 24/2015, and with many other Catalan laws and recent news. The suspension, therefore, on the one hand of the articles of this Llei 24/2015, was a very strong occasion, because three of us are essential tools to face the fight against the emergence in the habitation and to help people and families more vulnerable. That is why President Puigdemont convened two housing summits, commissioned his department to develop a new law that would overcome this setback and that was a law that was basically consensual – and it was achieved – and legally solid, and it was also achieved. And that you have the same protective effects to the most vulnerable, as we already had the 24/2015, suspended. Parliamentary processing was also done in good time, and, as a matter of urgency, we firmly believe that it was done a good law and that it was approved unanimously for this Parliament. I recall, relegating, the speech of one of the Members of the People's Party, who said the following textually: "We celebrate the text that is presented today, the celebration. An exceptional text before an exceptional situation. And they keep saying: "We will be on the side of the government whenever we want to take steps to help the people who need it most. Okay. They were good words and a wish, of course, commendable; but, as we can see, now, today, absolutely useless, because now we find that the Spanish Government wants to resort to Law 4/2016. Honourable Counselor, before this new attack by the Government of the State, my question is: how is the subject of the deployment of this law and also, as you and the Government value, this decision by the Government of the People's Party? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.3.0	Thank you very much, Mr Solsona. Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.4.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Solsona, you're right when you say that the abolition of the 24/2015 Law, a strong blow to the protection of habitation, was a strong blow, and it is also true that it was answered quickly, on the part of the government and also on the part of this chamber. In this sense, a good job was done, at a time I remember. And more so, so I want to thank the work done by all parliamentary groups. We all put it on our side. And I want to say..., and I want to make special mention of what he said, also a member of the PP in this chamber, said: "We support this law, which gives us tools to fight against residential exclusion without climbing the competitions of others. We appreciate that this was in the mouth of a member of the PP. Unfortunately, however, the PP government, as you said, with the support of Ciutadans, sees, therefore, practically unconstitutional the totality of this law. And it is not new that the Spanish Government is insensitive and, therefore, there is a lack of social sensitivity, because, if not, it means that there is a problem of competition, and if there are competitions, what the Spanish Government should have done is to legislate. This has not been done, and therefore neither does nor does it. We will, therefore, speak with the Spanish Government to save this law, but we will do so to defend it, not to change it. Because we know that this is a country law, that we've all worked together. There's been a working group. That, moreover, is approved for the unanimity of this Parliament of Catalonia. That it's a constitutional law. This is how the Bar Council of the country endorses it as the Bar Council of Barcelona. Moreover, it is a necessary law, because there are people who have problems with habitat and there are empty habitats; and therefore, in this sense, it is necessary to work. And that's a useful law, because, at these times, it has given us, already, 284 reallocations to people, with a social logger, on the part of the funded entities. And, besides, we already have a hundred mediations that are on the way, with the months of mediation. Therefore, we have also deployed this law at a time remembering: 7 training sessions to which more than 1,100 technical meetings have come; we have done all the channels and models; we have done the 8 mediation commissions and, therefore, are working. Listen to me, the Constitution of the State, of the Spanish State, says that this is a social, democratic and right state. And I allow myself to say the following: the concept of democracy, I think we can say that leaves much to be desired, on many occasions. In law and justice, we are seeing, too, how things are forced, and we have seen it, recently...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.5.0	Counselor, you've run out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.6.0	...with the 9-N trial... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.7.0	Ask the government about business travel to the Xina. [[Ask the Government about business travel to Xina]] [[310-00205/11]] [[Formulated by Mr. Jordi Munell, of the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.8.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Honourable Counsellor, last week it is known that representatives of the Government of Catalonia have travelled to Xina and Hong Kong accompanied by a delegation of Catalan companies. Xina is a country of the main players in the world of the economy; in fact, it is the first economic power in terms of purchasing power, the first exporter of the world and the second world economy recognized. Xina is in the middle of her five-year Pla tretze, 2016-2020. In this case, the country is clearly betting on an overture; a strategic overture based on strengthening its international interconnections. In this sense, with a compromise, too, to open up to the free market, to the reverse and with an intention to expand access to the market to foreign investors. The Xina wants to open its doors. Xina has ceased to be the factory of the world and with this five-year plan, with the support of the International Monetary Fund, will be in charge of consolidating Xina as a country or a society, which they say, "moderately accommodated. It is for infrastructure, innovation, modern industry, quality, innovation, efficiency and sustainability. To advance technologically and increase this know-how and the formation of its human capital, Xina will also need the support of foreign countries. In this case, this change of working, dubious paradigms, opportunities for Catalan companies to consolidate this presence, some of which are already in their country, but also to open up nine companies and to market us. In contrast, Catalonia also offers competitive advantages for those Chinese companies that want to establish themselves in Europe, operate in Europe from our country, seeking our competitiveness. Taking into account these scenes of challenges and opportunities and potentials of Catalonia, honourable counselor, what is the Government's appreciation of this recent trip and this business mission that you have carried out to Xina?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.9.0	Thank you, Mr. Munell. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.10.0	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Congressman. So, we'll do the valuation and we'll wait a few months from now, when it starts to realize those actions that the forty companies that accompanied us on this corporate and institutional mission to Xina..., when there began to be concreteness of all the contacts that they made; but I announce, already, that the valuation must be extremely positive. Miri, we went to Xina's. The Xina, as you said, is a great market, a great potential market for our businesses. We have been accompanied by forty entrepreneurs and forty companies from the most dynamic sectors of our economy: the biopharmaceutical sector, the food and beverage sector, the automotive sector and the tourism sector. More than six hundred bilateral meetings and contacts with businesses, buyer groups and administrations have been maintained. We have a good deal of agreement with, for example, the Shanghai Chamber of Commerce, the Shanghai Assembly, with Jiangsu province, which Jiangsu province has more than 80_million people, so we have made four groups of jobs in the field of technology transfer, research, foreign investment and cultural cooperation, and also companies, some of them, have already returned with contracts to the hands, signed. I'm looking for... and we're also coming with, uh, signatures, reverse commitments to our country. One important thing: we have a factory, Thunder Power, a Hong Kong factory that is willing to invest in our country. And how will they do that? So it will create, at the end of this year and the year it sees, a research and development center with more than two hundred engineers all over the world, to develop us electric car models. He will create it here, in Catalonia, in our country. And when you have launched the electric car to the Xina, at the beginning of the 19th, you will build a factory, also to Catalonia, to produce this same electric car to all of Europe, which can, for the bottom of it, donate labor to a thousand Catalan people. And I can donate work to a lot of the automotive industry in Catalonia. That's why they serve missions, that's why it's important that, from the government, I support all business missions, and that's what we're going to continue to do at the length of the year and at the length of all time, promoting the Catalan economy abroad.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.11.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Register of Stable Couples]] [[310-00206/11]] Ask the Government about the Register of Fet Pairs, formulated for Mr. Jordi Orobig, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.12.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. MPs, MPs..., Councillor Mundó, this week we have had knowledge of the compliment, on behalf of the Department of Justice, of a new objective of the government plan of the Eleventh Legislature, as is the entry into operation of the Register of Stable Couples or fact of Catalonia. This entry into operation is also due, in addition to parliamentary agreements, on its day of compliance; and, in the light of the very nature and the legitimate need for its compliment, to mark, first of all, the compliment of the obligation to contract for the Government, so that the result of this work of articulating the register, which is necessarily complex and long, is that Catalonia counts, today, with a single register of stable, public and free pairs. And I understand, or I understand this parliamentary group, that we need to make a special emphasis on these characteristics. In the first place, the unique character of the register, for its intention to integrate the totality of the settlements corresponding to the established stable pairs that would constitute Catalonia. In the second place, the public character of the register, as its entire management, relied on the Department of Justice, without the intervention of any other legal operator. And, thirdly and lastly, the free character of the registry, as the pair registry is not subdued to any level of tax. Beyond these characteristics, it guarantees the access of citizens to this unique register, face-to-face to any of the territorial delegations of the Government, as well as telematically, by means of an electronic certificate. The fact that our Civil Code, more concretely, the Second Book, equates stable marriages to marriage, makes the entry into operation of the Register of Stable Couples of Catalonia have obvious and transcendent legal effects for the citizens of our country. As now, under the title of example, you can claim the widowhood pension in case one of the members of the pair dies. On the other hand, it is clear that, in addition to guaranteeing the rights of citizens who choose this model of coexistence, it is necessary, for reasons of public interest, to guarantee legal certainty and to fight against fraud that have been detected on some occasions in these registers, among them, the municipalities. Today, there are approximately thirty municipalities in our country that have a municipal register, and it is the case that, in the last few days, more than twenty have closed down or ceased to serve precisely for reasons of public interest. We understand, therefore, that it is also the interest of the municipalities that have registers as of the citizens that in their day they have recorded the pair that they have constituted, to know the circumstances that will involve them the entry into operation of this registry of the Generality. And it's up to all these circumstances that it's interested in this group to know what is the government's understanding of the Register of Stable Couples, and what will be the impact of the registers of municipal pairs by reason of the entry into operation of the Registry of the Government of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.13.0	Thank you, Mr. Orobtig. Reply by Mr. Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.14.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, President. Mr. Deputy, indeed, this was a duet pending that the Government had, to set aside the Register of Parellas de Fet, to give also complete form to a reality, that is that the parellas stable in Catalonia, according to civil law, equip themselves to marriage in all the effects that regulate civil law: in that which affects the children, in that which affects successions, heresies, and also in the effects of separation. It is true, however, that in the area of state legislation there are some differences, which do not equate the pairs, and one of them is in access to the widowhood pension. In this case, a recent modification of the Social Security Law establishes how to require the inscription of these stable pairs in a public registry. And that's why it was important to be able to have a tool that you are at the service of the city council of Catalonia, not just that city in which its assembly, with the problems that you pointed out and later I will mention, you created it. The register of stable pairs can be used in person at the delegations of Barcelona, Girona, Lleida, Tarragona and Tortosa, and also telematically. And I take this opportunity to say that in these two days of operation of the registry there have been practically one hundred registration requests and more than two hundred queries. So it's obvious that it's one of those issues that interests people and that the government keeps doing it day by day. In relation to the joints, it is certain that some situations of irregularity, situations of duplicates, had been detected. It was a strange situation, that not all gatherings are exactly the same documentation to record these pairs, and that is why many gatherings – Barcelona, Hospitallet, Badalona, Cornellà, Rubí, Mataró, and many others – had chosen not to provide this service. Therefore, now, with this Register of stable couples unique to all of Catalonia, the assemblies remain, if they want, freed from this responsibility, we give more legal certainty to the assembly of citizens that they want to register and ensure that the citizens of Catalonia, viscous on visquin, can register this register easily, conveniently. Therefore, we believe that we are giving a service that the majority of citizens of Catalonia claimed, and therefore, what we had to do with it was easy, and so we have done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.15.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about feminism performances]] [[310-00207/11]] Ask the Government about the actions in the matter of feminisms, formulated for the lady Mireia Vehí, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.16.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, in the past Ple of the 26th generation the Movement of Feminisms that we have presented since the CUP - Constituent Creed is approved. It's not just about this young man and his degree of compliment or non-congratulation that we value the government's action in terms of equality. In fact, our concern around the ICD paper that is there, and it's not just a question of the UPC; the complaints about the Institute's paper and the consulting policies are starting to be worrying. Do you think the counselor is doing everything she can to implement the policies that the country needs and that women's movements claim?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.17.0	Thank you, Mrs Vehi. Reply to Ms. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.18.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. My honourable Member, therefore, yes, I believe that we are doing everything in our hands, aware of the enormous difficulties in reversing a reality that is structural in all. If anything has left us with this broad standard of feminisms, it is the finding that we cannot give for absolutly any of the conquests in the matter of equality, that it is the inequality that is at the origin of all discriminations and of all the rapes that are practiced against women, so that one thing is the legal equality and the other is the effective equality. For this reason, from the Department of the Presidency, from the joint government and from the Catalan Institute of Women, we work intensely to give compliments, so as to deploy the Law of effective equality between men and women, and obviously also to give compliments to the point of the motion to which you refer, that all just two_months ago approved the Ple of this Parliament, in the precise line of the law's unfolding, of many of its instruments, and with the detection of the weak points that obviously exist; and for this reason we commission studies, so that we commission reports and therefore work with conclusions that allow us to strengthen all these weak points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the word Mrs Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.20.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, we share the analysis of the lack of effective equality, but we disagree that your advice is doing everything it can. In relation to the motion in concrete terms, all the terms of the measures that contained limited time have been exhausted. The deadline for the report on the degree of compliment to all the agreements that we have reached has been exhausted. The deadline for organising the session with the Català de los Dones Institute and the parliamentary groups around the analysis of the Strategic Platform of Gender Equality of the Administration of the Generality has expired; you have called us to a meeting, but you have asked us not to come accompanied by feminist entities, as we have granted. The deadline has also expired for proposals for institutional campaigns on sexual and reproductive rights and the interruption of pregnancy and the campaign against male rape. The deadline for the proposal of protocols, for the institutional response to the allocations to educational centres and to the space of the oci, has also been exhausted. Nor do we know if you have started the stable coordination with the Government of the Islands and the Valencian Generalitat in order to bring forward the observer for the masclistic rapes in the Catalan Countries. What we do know – and we have read the proposal for a decree that you made public on March 1 on the Observer of Gender Equality – is that it is not based on the proposals approved by this House's motion, such as making the feminist economy a strategic one. And we could go on, and we'd just talk about this young man's arrangements. Counselor, the months of the legislature are over, and the balance that will be played will be denied. Now the feminisms are fighting more than ever, and we saw it on March 8th, when the streets of this country used to be feminisms. And feminisms demand courage and determination to put an end to patriarchy. And that's why we need to go further than a tiny equality agenda, to talk about feminist policies. And it may seem exaggerated, radical or utopian, but it's essential if we want to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.21.0	Thank you, Mrs Vehi. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.22.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member of the Commission, nothing that I would like to see achieve effective equality between men and women seems to me to be a utopia; on the contrary, it seems to me as much as necessary. Allow me, with the time remaining and briefly, however, to take a rest from the actions in which we are working, many of which fit perfectly into the points of the motion approved by this House. The creation of the Observers of the Igualtat de Genère. We said he'd be there before summer school. Precisely one of the strategic lines of work of the observer will be the principles of the feminist economy, in line with the approved motion. Elaboration of gender impact reports. We have already produced 275 reports from the ICD. We're also working on the design of the second male violence issue. And, as you know, on the assumptions that we have approved – we say, because we have approved them with the votes of your parliamentary group – an injection for the training of professionals working in the field of women and in the field of equality. We also need to work more intensively with communication media. Fixed if we have work to do, that still today communication means refer to yesterday's appointment, to the appointment of a person as the external delegate of the Government of the Generality making strict reference to his kinship with a prominent sportsman and not to his extended experience, professionalism and expertise. A lot of work is also done with the communication media, which, of course, we plant ourselves not as a utopia, but as a necessity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Scientific and Technological Park of the University of Girona]] [[310-00200/11]] Ask the Government about the Scientific and Technological Park of the University of Girona, formulated for Mr Rafel Bruguera, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.24.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the discrepancies between the public administrations have led to the Scientific and Technological Park of the University of Girona, from the competition of creditors, to liquidation. I ask you, Counselor, what actions the government is thinking hard about in order to guarantee the future public of the park and managed it on the part of the integrated employers for the Girona institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.25.0	Thank you, Mr. Bruguera. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.26.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. MP, discrepancies between Catalan public administrations, not one. Neither the Junta de Girona, nor the Diputación de Girona, nor the Government of Catalonia, even if not a member of the employers' office... there was no discrepancy. In any case, if you're talking about discrepancies, ask him six-hundred miles from here, where the State did not want to accept all the offer that was made from the Catalan administrations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mr. Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.28.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counselor, the Scientific Park of the University of Girona is economically viable, as you know perfectly well, and closes the presupposed exercises with net benefits and no tensions of treasuries. We're talking more than a hundred companies – tech companies, innovators, search companies, transfer companies and high value companies – we work more than a thousand people. In short, a strategic tool for diversification and the future economics of the Gironine regions. But the park, as you know, has a structural problem: a debt that is impossible to face without the competition of public administrations. We're on time for extension, but we're still on time if we all fold our dues. We ask them, Mr. Counsellor, we demand that they are not continuing to profile, that they remain, that they are laying the piles and that they are positioned at the institutionally side of the Rector of the University of Girona to guarantee the future public – I repeat, public – of the park. Our responsibility is to demand compromise and firmness, and its responsibility is to match political and institutional action. In order to avoid the liquidation of the calia, as you know, the contribution of 4.9 million euros by the Generality, which is who has the skills in university, research, innovation, etc.. But you have preferred to continue with the sting and confrontation with the central government, and not with the dialog in search of an agreement. One for the other, the house without a barrier, or, said with other words, two is shambles and a third one has, in this case the University of Girona and, by extension, the conjunction of the gironine comarques. We ask them, counselor, to move from confrontation mode to solution mode. Let us hope that, even though it is only for once, they will know that they are at the height of the circumstances assuming their responsibilities and their skills and in the service and in defense of public interest, in this case the interest of the group of gronins and gronins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.29.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bruguera. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.30.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Look, Congressman, what I can't accept on behalf of the government is that this government of Catalonia, instead of seeking solutions, has sought confrontation, because this is literally lied, it's false, with all roundness. Miri, we've approved three government agreements. One in November, in which this contribution is ugly, obviously also linked, as legally required, to the opening of the creditors' contest. We went back to doing another one 15 days ago. And then, at the request of the Rector, who is the president of the employer, at the request of the Rector, we put a note before you because the State and the tax agency would, if they wanted, accept it and raise it without the contest. So, I don't admit... And this we did when we were neither members of the employers' office, and therefore we could not be at the bilateral meetings that took place between the Administration of the State, between the tax agency and the University of Girona and the Scientific Park of Girona. Catalan institutions have responded all to one, all, with the will to satisfy and guarantee one thing that is certainly guaranteed, that is the continuity of the operation of all enterprises and all institutions, of all research centres and all researchers in the Scientific and Technological Park of Girona. We'll do that. And we, as the government of Catalonia, are willing to look for these solutions, but we ask you to come together at this time, because so far we have not been invited. And, as long as we haven't been invited, we've made a contribution... much more than it takes. And we did it not by confrontation, no: we did it for the progress of the communities and the city and the University of Girona, which is what interests us and what suits us. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.31.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Baiget. [[Ask the Government about violence in public space]] [[310-00202/11]] He asks the Government about the violence against public space, formulated for Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.32.0	Mr. Counsellor Jané..., since last year, as you know, there is a campaign of intimidation and harassment against students of Catalan Civil Society at the Autonomous University of Barcelona. They cannot carry out their normal activities either in the classrooms, where they enter hooded to threaten, or in the library where they are harassed, or on the campus, where they disassemble the stops they put on, and take away the flags, and intimidate them, and insult them. It has, this campaign, a stated goal: to throw the Catalan Civil Society, these young students, from the university. I would like to ask you: what is your counselor's policy in relation to these violent groups operating in universities?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.33.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Reply by Mr. Jordi Jané, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.34.0	Thank you, President. My honourable Member, your question allows me to reaffirm some basic principles of the Government of Catalonia and the Police of the Generality, the Mosso d'Esquadra: it always acted against violence in public space. Always. You were asking me for a few facts at the Autonomous University, at the campus, at the university. He knows there's a protocol, there's a protocol signed for the Director General of Police and the rector of the university that sets the rector's authorization to act on campus. Anyway, long before you asked this question, there was already a meeting between Principal Batlle and the rector of the university to deal with all these issues and how to act, because it has to be done every time you do a crime. And, therefore, I of each case could not give you concrete cases. But, look, Mr. Carrizosa, your question allows me to reaffirm the good pocket that the Mossos d'Esquadra make daily. Today, this morning, they have just detained a young woman, a woman of dynou years, presumed gihadist, for a crime of terrorism in Terrassa, who made an intense activity to the gangs. A lot of investigative activity of the Squadron Mosses according to the Central Training Court Number 3 of the National Audience. He stopped it a few minutes ago. He'll be brought to justice. I had an activity with more than 173 followers and with more than 213 publications that incited to commit gihad, that incited to what you were asking me today, to violence in public space. Therefore, we value the pocket of the Mossos, which is a pocket in favor of society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. You have the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.36.0	Counselor, I didn't ask you... congratulations on the action against jihadism, but I didn't ask you about that. I have told you a very specific question, and I do not get out of it either with protocols signed at the university, that the protocols are protocols and resolutions between the councillor and the rector, but what exists is a law, there is a penal code, there is a law of criminal prosecution, and it is not established anywhere that the universities are a wild space and free of civilization, but rather, on the contrary, a place of culture, thought and freedom that is not tarnished by the entrance of the Mossos, but rather by the entrance of the violent. And don't tell me you don't know what's going on. They believe a Spanish flag to the UAB..., insult members of Catalan Civil Society, the Mossos wrinkle before the violent... Why? Because a professor, not a member of the Catalan Civil Society, asked the Mossos to intervene and the Mossos were shielded..., not the Mossos, the political leadership of the Mossos, you, your councillor, were shielded that they could not enter, as you have now done with the protocols with the Rector. Look, you can't let the peaceful be harassed by the violent. If you do not enter at that time, what is the reason? I congratulate you on the jihadist. But what is the reason? When you told me about a 19-year-old girl, I thought: "You're going to tell me that you've arrested some of the people who are harassing peaceful people in college. But no, you've come to me with the jihadist, so, I repeat, I congratulate you. But what we ask you to do is to act against those groups that may have connections with those that are their governing partners. Now you've approved the budgets, they don't need them anymore. Let's see if they have the democratic shame... of acting whoever is responsible for these acts and whoever the victims are. Don't be partial in your counseling. This is no longer the revolution of the sobries, and it is very clear. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.37.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.38.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, I don't admit this populism. It's not acceptable. You're thinking... someone else has already wanted to make insinuations that we don't admit. You think that the Director of Police, Political Director, or Councillor, is with a walkie-talkie saying to the Mossos: "Actuin, "do not act, "stop... There's no way! [[Greetings.]] The Mossos do their job, and they do it well. And it's not true that they're politically involved. And, look, you, as much as you talk about the Constitution, Article 27 takes over university autonomy, and on the basis of this article there is an agreement on whether or not the Mosso act... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.39.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.40.0	...on a university campus. Therefore, I ask you – I ask you – to speak also with these students, that they have direct and fluid contact with the Equadron Mosses Cos Mediating Area every time that a aldarul has been carried out..., which I believe cannot be tolerated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.41.0	Counselor, you've run out of time. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about public workers]] [[310-00203/11]] He asks the Government about the public workers, formulated for Mr. Joan García, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.42.0	Counselor Borràs, he's already spent more than a year in front of the Department of Governance. What measures have you planned to take to end your inaction of government, before the legitimate demands of the public workers of the Government of Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.43.0	Thank you, Mr. García. Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.44.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, before anything else, let's just say at the time of talking about the public workers do a recognizance of the pocket of all of them, which is thanks to their good pocket, their good job, which we guarantee a welfare state. You know that there is a compromise on the part of this government to give response and to take positive action towards public workers. So, there's the compromise – I can't say there isn't – to increase the maximum remuneration that the State allows, and therefore the 1_per_cent this year; that we will continue working to recover all the lost, much already recovered rights, don't tell me no; that we promote what is the professional career; that we will lower the tempo; that we will create more than seven_ thousand new places; that we will continue with the reinforcement of what the School of Public Administration of Catalonia is so that there can be a good training for all public workers. Therefore, we want to build a public administration prepared, responsible, coherent with the values of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.46.0	It will advise, the best recognition that you can make to public workers is, for example, to complete the resolutions that this Parliament unanimously approved a year ago to return, precisely, the confiscation of these years of detail. But you fail to complete this democratic mandate, and spend months and months without properly gathering the Public Service Bureau. Yes, you are very good at placing yours in this new life that is said to be the process. They have increased the number of senior officials to the government by 10_per_cent and keep them under what the law says and over what some of their advisors cover. They are also quick at the time to call public workers to accompany them to their performances before jutjats. But you still have a bigger problem, or a harder one, today, a problem that is said to be 4_per_cent. Four are the points that have increased the number of stakeholders to the new Administration during its period to the head of governance; six thousand more interim workers, until reaching fifty thousand, from 22 to 26 per cent, when the coherent objective and claiming the unions is 8. This is not the way the Court of Justice of the European Union has ruled, Counselor. But, look, counselor, today it has an opportunity; it has the opportunity to announce that they will transfer to Catalonia the agreement that Ciutadans has pushed to the Congress and that determines a plan of reduction of the interinatge until 8_per_cent in three years, an agreement that returns the capacity of self-organisation to the autonomous communities. There's no more excuses, Counselor, there's no excuses. You decide: or think of the public workers of all Catalans or follow the path of inaction. If you take the path of inaction, please, counsel, this time we ask you not to use any of your victimistic arguments to store what we consider to be a fraction of your counseling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.47.0	Thank you very much, Mr. García. There's the word Constellera Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.48.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, do you know what's going on? That with the expression of maximalism, bringing it all to the extreme leads to distorting reality, to tell you lies, as they say here. To say that we have been inactive, that nothing has happened, knows that it is absolutely false. In this sense, this month of April, for example, is back the 34,42_per_cent of the 2012 pay. That's getting back right – that's getting back right. Therefore, that compromise that there was-there in this room to return the 2012 pay is also materialized this year. Or what has been the recovery of additional days by old age, both in the area of vacations and for personal subjects. That's getting back right, too. Therefore, do not say that this government has been inactive, do not say that this government has done nothing. This government, logically, has worked. And we have laid on the table, logically, other matters, as we have to, and we are in negotiation; you know it perfectly. We have put on the table, for example, and we have to work it, work that is the subject of the productivity complement; the timing of the return of extraordinary payments for 2013 and 2014; what is the public offer of employment, a subject that is obviously important; the reduction of temporality, and the Bureau decided to create two working groups, which started to meet on November 4. Therefore, it is obvious that this government works, and positively, and logically, in temporality we have to work, and we will.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.49.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about public service agreements]] [[310-00208/11]] Ask the Government about the agreements with the civil service, formulated for Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.50.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, we deepen the topic, if any. In the appearances of the presupposition debate, the groups supporting the Government refused to incorporate items that precisely facilitated what you said: the negotiation to recover labour and wage rights from public workers. And you used the reasoning that there were already ways to do it, regardless of the assumptions. In fact, even they didn't want to honour the commitments they made, such as paying for this part of the pay they said they would pay in April. So, well, they already have approved assumptions. Can you explain to us who are the creative ways you have planned, with negotiation and with timetables, to deal with union demands for recovery of rights, wages and jobs lost since 2010?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.51.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. The word has Ms. Meritxell Borràs, Governance Advisor, Public Administrations and Housing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.52.0	Thank you, Madam President. I think we need to put in value the agreements we've already reached, and so we don't have to put them, and put them, I insist, in value. I've expressed myself... and I've said it before. It is true that there were rights that were retaliated, that there was also the government's commitment to return them so that the economic situation reversed. And, therefore, in this sense he has worked. You know that the negotiating table is permanently open, that they have met eight times, and that in this sense there are the agreements that I mentioned before. And, logically, we're having an affair. Not everyone we want, neither do we have all the elements in our hand. But it's obvious that we work there, and we work together with the union as well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.53.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mr. Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.54.0	Yes, he will, but you know that he repeatedly accuses himself of lack of real negotiation, in the sectoral months. You know they call them when they're good, they include the fears that they're good and that they bring to the table packages of measures that are so closed that there's practically no room for negotiation. This isn't real negotiation, this isn't respect for public service. That's why you mislead, counsel. You have long been misusing them with the argument, one, of the lack of pressure, and the other, of the restrictive measures of the State. So, look, now they've got a presupposition. And in relation to the topalls of the state, they're all looking. One more has not fallen, I think a while ago, to the negotiation that took place last week. The top of the repositioning rate has fallen, and you already know that it is 100_per_cent in an extended collection of you will work. You know that this has a huge importance, because if we look at the amount of interest and time we have in our country, in Catalonia, we are around 30 percent, and the agreement indicates that we will have to arrive at 8 percent. That would mean, for the bottom line, 44,000 new seats in the next few years that you could summon. In fact, you would have to summon them, if you followed the same criteria of obedience to the State that you have followed so far to retail, and more without that cost or five, because they are busy work places. And, on the other hand, counsel, I suppose you also know that, as a result of the detail of the liberal governments that you represent, Catalonia is the autonomous community that has less to function for every thousand inhabitants to do the same job; in you are forty, much under fifty-three of the middle, sixty-nine of Aragó or eighty-eight of Extremadura. In summary, we are repeatedly calling for additional efforts to our public office. So I repeat: how do you intend to negotiate pending rights? How do you intend to apply the agreement to Catalonia to the State to consolidate temporary seats? And how did you plan to raise the seats of the Catalan civil service? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.55.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. There's the word Constellera Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.56.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, the government, I want to repeat, has in high esteem the pocket of the public workers of this country, and, therefore, also the sacrifices made. You were expressing your index, we could say, of good functioning and of good results, right? I have expressed it, in the two questions, some of the elements in which we have advanced. I also want to put on the table the fact that we have asked to speak of the expansion of rights, of other rights, such as the incorporation of the assumption of the perception of 100_percent remuneration in cases of temporary disability, the establishment of additional productivity linked to evaluation... But there are other themes, and you quote them, which are very relevant, such as the topic of temporality, such as the subject of the offer of public employment. Miri, from the start, we already made an offer in 2015, offering public occupation, of 1,230 places, and this 2017 knows that we have announced that there would be, therefore, an offer of public occupation of more than seven thousand places. But it is clear that there is an agreement on whether the State, in the joint venture of the State, in which, therefore, the unions, together with the Government, have agreed to improve public employment. It is obvious that this gives us a new margin that until now we do not have to be able to work and reduce the temporality, and that, therefore, logically, here we will take it. Until now we have had economic limitations – it is true, you have said this – and we have had limitations on the rate of repositioning – it is true, we have had limitations on it – and so now we have a different situation and, logically, we, together, from the hands of the unions, will have to analyse about five collections, about which concrete jobs we need to work on, and thus make possible this reduction in temporality, which, logically, this government also wants to work firmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.57.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about parliamentary support to approve the Generalitat's assumptions for 2018]] [[310-00201/11]] He asked the Government about parliamentary support to approve the assumptions of the Generalitat for 2018, formulated for Mr.Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.58.0	Thank you, President. You have a pact of assumptions and legislature with a political formation that has rejected the conviction of this chamber for assaulting its People's Party of Catalonia; a conviction that we sincerely appreciate, but here there is a differential element respect for other acts, and it is that he led a deputy of this chamber... with whom they agree. You're gonna keep up with the CUP? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.59.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.60.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Fernández, I'm sure there's a thread in your question, but I'm missing the relationship between parliamentary support for the 2018 press and the reference you just made. In any case, I answer them with all clarity. The assumptions that we have at these times, which we have approved, are not the assumptions that the Catalan society deserves, and they are not because you, especially you, pose to us all the difficulties of the world because they can be. Even so, they are, attested to these circumstances, the best possible assumptions. The necessary assumptions of the future are obvious that, if they are based on the assumptions that you have presented in the Spanish government, they will do nothing but grow, because it is obvious that you fail to complete all the promises that you make. Therefore, what we would try to do is that everything that relates to Catalan society does not depend on its decisions, but on the citizens of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.61.0	Thank you, Vice President. I have the word Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.62.0	Yes, thank you, President. Two weeks ago, the CUP asked the Bureau of Parliament to take over, and they complain that they were wrongly accused of serving intimidation in politics. Only a week later, it was not the case that someone still had any doubts, decided to assault his party of the People's Party of Catalonia; an action condemned throughout this chamber as an act of intimidation absolutely unacceptable. We're not the only ones we accuse, we condemn; it's the whole chamber. Who will they ask to take office, to the Constitutional Court, now? They're good covers. We've been alerting about the batasunitzaçion perill of Catalan politics for a long time. It's not a frivolity; it's a measured and thought-out expression, why is it, if not, cremating photos and flags, assaulting them, blowing up acts of Catalan Civil Society, threatening signs, slowly pronouncing the names and surnames of the people in this house? We all know what it means. This ethical, political, aesthetic and cultural inspiration in Batasuna is no secret, they have never imagined it – in fact, a tour, a long time ago, Batasuna's policies – but it has always been a residual movement in Catalonia. The problem is when it is the same government that decides to put the whole ideology at the center of the stage, when it gives them the keys of the government, because what it does is to put the whole ideology at the center of the stage. Here it basically consists of: "If you don't think like me, you're a fatxa and a botifler. And here absolutely no one is saved. For what the parliamentary chronicles say, Mr. Coscubiela took over the same day his reason for the revolution of the smiles. The Government of the Generalitat... you think you can control it, but you're wrong. What do you think will be different, for you, the time has come? Ask Mr. Comín, ask Mr. Jané that they have already been threatened. Train the pact with the CUP. We are aware that it is difficult for you; it means giving the final dot to an already dying process, which, if it has neither social majority nor leadership nor international recovery, survives as it can with an unstable parliamentary majority seized with clamps, with assisted breath. But we must ask them: does it pay the penalty to continue with a process where they break into their own? Does it pay the penalty to continue a process where the dissenters are threatened? Reflection. Train with the CUP or they'll be accomplices to what you can get through and what these people can do. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.63.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. The vice president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.64.0	Mr. Fernández, I'm sure you've tried a lot more to explain the thread of this question about the 2018 assumptions. I confess that I still do not see exactly where the relationship is, but in any case I answer what I understand you asked me, that you have nothing to see with what I had announced you would ask. Mr. Fernández, from absolute respect to the considerations that you do, absolutely, of course, from this absolute respect, I also want to say one thing: here, if anyone is interested in batting something, as you said, I think they are more quickly than they are in fan... [[strong remorse of the eyes]] I think they're faster... – listen, let me answer, please; we don't turn this into a show – I think they're faster than you, because you haven't heard much from this type of question. And a fond reflection. Listen, from threats to Twitter, from convicted tweeters, we see when they affect people who [[remorse of the voice]] But when they affect us many of the others...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.65.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.66.0	...we don't see it. Therefore, what we see is that justice often applies with very different criteria depending on who the people who are affected are. And after another fond consideration too, and a little bit of respect too, I must say, every bit of respect. You qualify as residual a parliamentary group of this chamber that only has a deputy less than the group you represent. I don't know if, from a point of view of the democratic representation or from a point of view of the simple mathematics, your statement will hold. In any case, we are working together to make the best possible assumptions, now and in the future, we are working together to make this country the best possible country, we are convinced that this will only be guaranteed when the future of our country is in the hands of our citizens. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.67.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the fixing of the date and the question of the reference]] [[317-00138/11]] Question to the President of the Generality on the political and social situation, formulated for the lady Anna Gabriel, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.68.0	Thank you very much, President. First of all, send a greeting and all the souls to the Alliance against Energy Poverty companies that are stuck to an Endesa company claiming social accountants and stealing rights from capital; as at least, trying. Mr President, as you know, yesterday the CUP we started a distribution of hundreds of thousands of buttons with the question of the referendum: "Does Catalonia become an independent republic? The button helps to place the reference on the country's political agenda. The button places in the imagination of all, in the imagination of the people, a clear and binary question. Yesterday, too, the Constitutional Court, at the instigation of the Spanish executive, in the hands of the People's Party, suspends the referendum parties. This suspension confirms that many of us already know: that the State continues to deny the right to self-determination, that the State responds with repression to the demand for democracy, and that this suspension longs, if not more quickly eliminates, from the imagination of all that the reference is possible to celebrate it in an agreed manner with this State. We know, therefore, that the State, of the hands of the People's Party and of its friends of the PSC, or of the PSOE, of Ciutadans, suspects, threatens, sanctions. But, still, in this country there is a social majority that wants to make this reference. With all this, don't you think it's an opportunity to fix, to ask the date and question of this reference?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.69.0	Thank you, Mrs. Gabriel. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.70.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there will be a time to set the date and the question, and that both the date and the question must be the object of a broad agreement, cannot simply be the whim or whim of the president or of a parliamentary group or of a sector of society, but all those actors, who are many and are very plural, who have been involved in the democratic response to the conflict in Catalonia and Spain are the ones who will have to decide the date and the question. I think that, in any case, the question cannot go as far as possible, and that I only admit an answer of yes or no; that is obvious and I have said it many times. But there is a job to do that we will not give up and insist very much, that it is to deny that a reference is not possible; it is possible, another thing is that there is no political will, but it is possible that there is a reference granted. It's more, it's the best of the scenes. All the questions, both that of the CEO as well as the one that has just been published by the SER Chain, all, all, all, indicate that there is an immense majority in Catalonia that wants there to be a reference and that the reference is granted. So, surely also by actions..., its campaign, but not only, thanks to its campaigns and other entities, if it has not been for the same Constitutional Court, the reference is in the absolute imagination of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.71.0	Thank you, President. I have the word Mrs. Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.72.0	Yeah. Our action started yesterday was framed in which we understand that it is one of the main objectives of this legislature: to exercise the right to self-determination. And this Parliament, expressing it from its majority, decided to do it from a referendum; that, as we know very late, it has to be in September. And besides, this Parliament has instructed the government not to carry out all the preparations. And, therefore, in our view, this Parliament, together with the Government, must be fixed and asked. And that is not to say that we can do it simultaneously, in parallel, at the same time as the National Referendum Pact is working, as we know, to collect accessions, support, at the international and state level, and also to carry this latest attempt to petition for reference granted with the execution of the State; that is possible, but a state governed by the People's Party automatically converts it into impossible, despite the fact that we like to be sociators. That we fix date and question does not exclude; it does not exclude even so many that there are those who want to continue working to agree it. What can't be is that we use the pact as a shield. There is a social majority that claims the reference, and that makes it aware that it will not be agreed. It's common sense for us to set a date and a question. We're less than six months away... to celebrate it. Scócia was fixed...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.73.0	Mrs. Gabriel, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.74.0	...a year and a half before. The question... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.75.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.76.0	Thank you very much. It is obvious that in this Parliament, not this time, there are resolutions in this sense from the 1980s – parentheses: never challenged for the Constitutional; parentheses – that link and claim the right to self-determination. In fact, explicitly, the first motion approved for this Parliament – I insist: it does not suspect – says that this Parliament and Catalonia will never give up the right to self-determination. And that's what we think we're doing. Don't give up. And the way not to give up there is to exercise it. Exercise him, how? So, as is the case in all cases where a people claims to exercise the right to self-determination, which is voting. In what way? The most bestowed possible, honestly. I believe that the National Referendum Pact is doing an extraordinary job, and that we need to let it work, and that it has a field to run, and that it has a camp to run that more can help us even more to prove before all that people..., also to the Spanish State, that knows that this is a conflict that can only be resolved with politics and in a democratic way. Or so, for what it does to me, for what it does to the government, I believe, at last, for what it does to most of this Parliament, the path of the referendum granted is a path that we have to go to the end, and a little more, if I may.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.77.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the warnings of the Constitutional Court regarding the referendum and the parties of the assumptions of the Generality for 2017 that it has intended]] [[317-00136/11]] Question to the President about the political situation, formulated for Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.78.0	Thank you. Mr President, the State of Rights, for the first time, has put an end to its willingness to blow up democracy and freedom in Catalonia. His speech to respond to a supposed popular will, apart from not being certain, to be a great invention, already abhors and exhausts the majority of Catalans. My question is very specific, Mr President: do you intend to take note of the warnings given by the Constitutional Court regarding the celebration of a referendum and the allocation of economic parties to it from the general budget?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.79.0	Thank you, Mr. García. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.80.0	Thank you very much. God forbid, Mr Albiol – thank you, Madam President. Mr Albiol, God does not have his moderation. You just accused me, I don't know why, of blowing up democracy and freedom. And then, automatically, he speaks on behalf of all the Catalans, yes– yes, of all the Catalans–, to conclosure that I abhor and tired most of the Catalans. Where did you get that, exactly? Where did it come from? Do you have any questions, have you spoken to the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans to let you know with so much strength to say in this Parliament that we love or we get tired? [[Greetings.]] No, believe me, I know a little more modest than you do; I admit the possibility that we may be wrong, but in democracy there is one thing that is called "elections, that is called" ballots, that is what it is that is used to measure – not their ve·leïtats, only ballots and ballot papers – to know what exactly he thinks about this country. And do you know what this country said the last time it got consulted? So, he said, this country, this country wanted to be independent. [[Widow's remorse.]] So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.81.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.82.0	Will you listen to me, please? In this Parliament I believe that we are represented by the representatives – worth the redundancy – of the wishes of the citizens, to whom we have made some very clear proposals. What do you want me to do? [[Pause.]] So, I hope I'm not going to say that I'm not faithful and consistent with what I've committed to before this Parliament and the citizens of Catalonia. I hope you're not asking for this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.83.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.84.0	Mr. President, do you know what the main difference is between you and me? [[Widow's remorse.]] That..., apart from the elevation, as it is obvious – apart from the elevation, but from a political point of view – the main difference is that I will never, nor will I ever speak on behalf of the people of Catalonia, which you are doing. [[Widow's remorse.]] Because you, Mr President, represent a part of the Catalan population; a part that, socially, is not a majority in Catalonia. You have an independent parliamentary majority in Parliament, it is true, but this social majority, in the street, is not there. And proof of that is that if you take the election results you can see it. But, Mr President, with all sincerity, it seems to me that with this attitude of yours, of constantly seeking confrontation with the State, the confrontation of institutions, what is being done is to play with fire. And the problem is not that you're creams, it's that you're putting living together in Catalonia at risk. And this irresponsible attitude, this attitude of disobedience, what is provocative is that those who do not have two front sayings use these arguments to act violently, as happened last week before their Popular Party. Mr Puigdemont, have the absolute guarantee that from the People's Party of Catalonia we will not abandon all those Catalans, the majority, who feel Catalan and also Spanish, who do not want to give up that double feeling. You and your Government have become a danger to the peaceful coexistence of Catalonia, and if you do not stop that unreasonably, Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras, you will end up as Mr Mas and Mr Homs ; before justice, disabled by irresponsible attitude and by jumping the law and the rule of law in Catalonia. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Mr. Puigdemont...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.85.0	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.86.0	... I will make you a recommendation, and I will finish: I will convene autonomous elections at once; I will convene elections and put an end to the sluggishness and move on to the worst game, the worst stage of democratic Catalonia in recent years. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.87.0	Thank you, Mr. García. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.88.0	Thank you very much. Mr Albiol, I see that moderation has won in your speeches. Listen to me, who defends Catalan society the most? Those who prevent an important part of this society, which wants to vote, from being able to express, or those who allow the supporters of Catalonia's independence and the opposition to Catalonia's independence to vote? Who is working for the totality of Catalan society? [[Greetings.]] Those who prevent a part of the country from speaking out? Or those we guarantee – we guarantee – that the whole country can express freely? I think it's clear who's thinking about society's joint venture. This government is also thinking about the Catalans who do not want Catalonia's independence; as has been shown by the other gang with questions that affect the assembly of the people they have made to the councillors before. Listen to me, do you know who's failing repeatedly? Your government. It's more like his president. It's more: incomplete their own promises, that they can't take it for a week. A week ago he came here, promised, as they say, rain of what? Millions? And do you know what we found? A riuada that has made promises [[applause]] The portals of the diaries and all the dial operations that you want to give us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.89.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the actions he intends to take to rescue the Palau de la Música de la espolação suffered by the imports that have been diverted to the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia]] [[317-00139/11]] Question to the president about the political situation, formulated for Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.90.0	Thank you, President. President, a few weeks ago we've been following the trial of the Palau de la Música's son. An oral view of evidence and evidence of irregular convergence funding. Look, under the presidency of Mr. Josep Maria Busquets, the Generalitat has made Palau's readers stand out from the particular accusation and have kept blocking the action of the consortium until now that Mr. Joan Llinares, Mrs. Mariona Carulla had not yet declared before the trial. Now that they have already testified, our question is concrete: does your government intend to do any action to rescue the palau of the suffering spoli, recovering the money that supposedly went to Convergence?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.91.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.92.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, this government has always defended its interests before this case and all other cases – always. And if I have to keep doing it, I will do it without any problems. Now, you have to understand that maybe we'll wait a little bit for the feeling, right? Why assign a follow-up of conclusions, from which to deduce important actions and compromises for a government, before we know any sense of where it can be demonstrated that this is so true... So, man, we follow a little cautious and wait to see what justice says, if we believe that justice, let us say it, is independent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.93.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.94.0	Thank you, President. Just this is the question: when you withdraw from the particular charge as an entity damaged by a situation of espouse, conditions the possibility to claim and claim the money that has disappeared. Look, last week the President But appeared before the Committee on Institutional Affairs on this subject, and explanations did not give us much, but political responsibility still less. We, you, as President of the Generality, do not believe ourselves with right and do not believe that it corresponds to ask for responsibility for a few moments prior to his mandate; in fact, we do not do so nor do we do so alone with the PDECAT. But we would ask him for two things, two concrete things. The first, in relation to the positions that have emerged on this event, that you do not recycle there, does not want to recycle what is not recyclable, because hardly a new country project can be built watering certain motxillas. And the ballot boxes, as we told Mr. But, so, I don't pardon the looting of the common good. And the second concrete thing that we do want to ask is that I act to rescue Palau's interests, to defend its dignity as an institution and its interests, seeking to reverse the effects of that decision to act – or not to act – as an accusation, that the Government of the best took on its day, not to exercise this accusation before the court of that institution, and that you do what is necessary to act and to be able to recover from this staff to the palace, if indeed – effectively – the judgment is to confirm, to certify all that the evidence that has been accumulated is laying in the course of the oral view. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.95.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.96.0	Yes, Mr. Rabell. I think the final part of his intervention indicates a little bit of the way forward. Let's see what they say, see if there's any damage to return and bail out. We see if the Government of the Generalitat is directly the one that must take action to defend some position that has been contrasted for justice. But, above all – above all – I believe that in this case and in many others, and not just the case of justice, also in others who have to deal with public communication means, it is necessary that we free ourselves from damage and positions taken before the letter, in order not to end up justifying unjustifiable things afterwards. Mr. Rabell, you know that the government has always been strong and will be, ahead of this case and those close to it. That's why you have all the absolute certainty, because you have been there, and you can't absolutely retract anything and you can't retract nothing in the future. But let me tell you something about the concept of recycling and non-recycling. I know where he's going. I've been taught – I've been taught, and I come from a family where, with the huge family, we have had to do a lot of good work – to recycle everything, which can recycle everything. That you don't have to donate anything for nothing. They can still recycle. I believe that you belong, in addition, to a political family that has not made a flag, so that we can recycle everything and that everything has a utility. Let us not fill in anything in this country; we must see that we do not fill in anything. It's more, there's very profitable things. There are things that, at last, might surprise you as you are as profitable as you are. In the near future, in this House there will be a failure, if I am not mistaken, of a director of a medium of communication only for whom he thinks, not for his professional career, for whom he thinks. You're making lists– you're making lists– of journalists based on your ideology. This attitude is what leads them, to you, to think that there is a part of the people who are indispensible, because they don't think like us, because what they say doesn't like the ears. It's the same if they're good or bad professionals, it's the same if they've been good or bad presidents of the Generality; what matters is what they think. And I don't like what they think, then, of the history paper. Not us, we're for recycling. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.97.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about measures to prevent the liquidation and dismantling of the Scientific and Technological Park of the University of Girona and guarantee its future]] [[317-00135/11]] He asked the Government about the political situation formulated by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.98.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, my group has already asked the councillor about Girona's Science and Technology Park, and I would like to take a small step forward in the following direction: it is obvious that some things here have not gone well from the point of view of the management. The administrations or, at least, the State Administration probably didn't put the easy things in place, but we wouldn't want to resign. And then I would like to ask you to plant in the chamber the possibilities to continue acting in order to avoid, in extremes, the liquidation of the park or, in any case, to avoid, of all, its dismantling. And I already agree to offer you the cooperation of our group in those measures that you can plan.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.99.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.100.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, I thank you very much for this offer, and believe in the retreat, because Girona Park is a success for all the institutions. And, more than that, I remember he started the moment Girona's meeting was in the hands, exactly, of his party. And at that moment I think he counted, as we count today, then too, with a broad political consensus, which must not be broken. As Councillor Baiget has said, he knows perfectly well that the Government of the Generality is absolutely involved in it. Everything that comes from this government, everything that's in its hands – and, more importantly, we've done a little more – we're totally willing to avoid liquidation and, of course, dismantling, which is a scener that we don't see at all.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.101.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.102.0	Yeah. Thank you, President, and I have your words. For people who may not follow it, the technology park benefits every year, but it has an accumulated debt, precisely, of its launch and of its inn on the way. There are other scientific and technological parks which also have certain problems which, in general, are not related to their daily functioning, but to a pre-existing mortgage beech. I ask them, and believe me, I do it with all cordiality: we lay the banya with this theme. If you can clear the phone to talk to the President of the Government of Spain about this issue, don't stop doing it. Because, in fact, I believe that in the future the Generality would have to form part of the patronage of this park; that, moreover, if, unfortunately, the liquidation drawn forward, the Generality would have to guarantee the public ownership of the majority, if not of all the equipment, infrastructure of the park, and this needs to be reversed, it needs to cover certain debts that have accumulated, and it needs the compromise of all. I think we all want a Catalonia forward, and we want it forward, precisely, in technology and research. And, therefore, and because of the concrete impact it has on the country's business and economy, I believe it is worth the banya to save a project that has shown vitality, that has shown vigor, that has demonstrated competitiveness and that cannot be abandoned because of the fact that some ancient deutes offer it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.103.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.104.0	Indeed, I fully agree with you about the strategic importance that Girona Science Park has for all the entrepreneurial, start-ups, the, say, link with Girona University, with the pile of peppers in Girona, which is strongly internationalized and which needs the support of the science park in order to transfer innovation in its products. But, anyway, we've talked to the Spanish government a lot at a very high level about this. And besides, the ministers responsible know exactly what the issue is. They know and know, because it can't be any other way, that the Government of the Generality deposited money, the 5_million euros that they demanded from us, before notari– so, that they were of immediate collection–, to avoid liquidation. They know that this is the line we work on, the Girona Council, the Girona Council and the Girona University, which are actually the members of the employers, together with the employers. Therefore, we have not deviated from the unit of action in Catalonia to prevent the park from going into liquidation. What failed here? So, for what it seems, these moneys aren't good for the Madrid government. I don't know what else to do, I don't know what else to do. Because we have set up the money – which, believe me, has cost us, let's say, as you can imagine, we have to put it, so that we don't have any leftovers – but we have put it not only as a demonstration of trust in the park and of compromise with the park, but also of the will that there is no obstacle to Catalonia, as it is not, because the Government of the State is preventing the liquidation. I'm afraid there are political reasons, honestly. And it would be very sad that, despite the fact that all circumstances are given – all – because there is no liquidation, the Spanish State does not accept our money, it was not necessary to raise the liquidation of the park and to give us the reason that this is a viable park, that we want, that there are all compromises and that here there is only one obstacle – one obstacle – that is now said "Spanish State".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.105.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the Government's priorities for own-months]] [[317-00134/11]] He asked the Government about the political situation, formulated for Mrs Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.106.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Puigdemont, what is your priority, as President of the Generalitat, for the coming months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.107.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.108.0	Thank you very much. Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Arrimadas, therefore, complete with the government program that this Parliament approved until its later consequences, in all and every one of its spheres.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.109.0	Thank you, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.110.0	Mr. Puigdemont, what's your priority, we all know. But don't tell us it's what he's committed to. What you said was that the referendum had already been done and that you were going to declare independence in eighteen months. You voted against the referendum on November 9, 2015. So stop fooling, please, all Catalans. Look, I'm going to tell you with data what your government's priorities are. With you as president, taxes on Catalans have been increased and barracks for children have been increased; with you there is not a single public euro for day care, which seems to be a lie, and the officials of Catalonia will be the last of the whole of Spain to charge their dues. That's right, with you as president the high offices have been increased and the expenses of this process have multiplied nowhere. But instead of being ashamed of this data, they're settling in on victimism and we're seeing it these days as well. Look, after Parliament's lawyers warned you, after the Council of State Guarantees unanimously told you, you put the start again to repeat the 9-N in the budgets, knowing that it would be suspended. You're doing it on the post so you can take it down and feed victimism, because you don't have any realistic projects for Catalonia and you don't want to work. Because working, going to presidents' conferences to defend us, to make feasible proposals... that's not what they do, or let others do it. Because, for example, I'm going to give you a case. Today we will discuss in Parliament a proposal for a citizens' law to combat the harassment and abuse of children in educational institutions. And you do not even want these issues to be discussed. And I'm telling you this because it's today's topic, but we're the group that we put forward most social and economic proposals. You are very well in the unreal world of trial. And you know it, Mr Puigdemont: there will be no referendum or independence. Stop lying to the Catalans. You're the first one to know. And I ask you: don't waste any more time speculating about possible questions to repeat the 9-N. Do you know the question you should be concerned about, Mr Puigdemont? It is the question that we are going to answer all Catalans in the next autonomous elections and it is going to be if we want to continue to have a government obsessed with getting us out of Spain and the European Union or, finally, we are going to have a government with a realistic project, of the future and for all Catalans. Don't waste any more time, call elections and let us choose the answer to that question. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.111.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.112.0	Thank you very much. Mrs. Arrimadas, this later, according to the Constitutional Court, we could not do this, because we have been suspected, after all, of the departure of electoral summonses. Certainly – certainly –... [[Give me the applause.]] No, no..., you who are so fond of the State Guarantee Board and who when the State Guarantee Board says unanimously that one thing is not right, well, you put us all face to face with the wall, you know what the State Guarantee Board said, unanimously, about the, say, electoral process? That it was perfectly constitutional. Any complaints? Any complaints that the government disobeyed the State Guarantee Board? [[Pause.]] I don't feel like it. In any case, when the Guarantee Board is worth saying that a game is not constitutional, it's worth saying that a game that is constitutional is constitutional. It's not a switch that can be convenient depending on the speech of the day. Mrs. Arrimadas, look, in this mandate we will certainly not have time to do all the things that a normal mandate, obviously, can do, but we are very proud of the results that we can deliver to the citizen. Not only do the assumptions grow in education, they improve in health – and in what way – they foresee the contracting of nine jobs, they plan to restore labor rights that had been lost. Not only that: it has reduced the time considerably; in fact, this year's annual is the highest in history, more than two points – more than two points. Foreign investments in Catalonia have multiplied, absolutely clear. It has been reduced to a time when no one's paying suppliers' attention anymore. Anybody hear about the payments... the late payments? Well, what's wrong? [[Pause.]] This is a job of this government, too. The public deficit has been reduced – and in what way – to gain the highest international credit and credibility. The Agreement to govern co-existence in schools was approved, of course. What you're missing, it's already approved; look, we've already done it. So, man, look, it's not all medals, it's not all his initiations that are good, it's not all that the government does... it's not all that the government does, it's just talking about the process. The only ones who have spoken of the process, you... are you; no one has spoken at all. You're worried about them. At each control session, when we pass the statistical list of how many questions you have asked the Government and the President of the Generality about what interests the people, you see that what interests the people is the process of independence of Catalonia. Welcome to the club! Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.113.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the valuation of his trips to the United States of America and Bolonia]] [[317-00137/11]] Question to the President on the latest political developments, formulated by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.114.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, these last days, in a sense of doubt, have been politically far-reaching. On the one hand, you, President, and members of your government were in the United States, where they maintained a follow-up of contacts with people and institutions of the academic, political, business and media world. And, despite the efforts we have always made to see that these journeys are less important, so we want to put them very much in value, just as we put in value the Catalan presence at the Fira de Bolonya and its presence, for example, also with the President Romano Prodi; some trips to explain and to establish relations, complicity, to dialogue, to talk about everything, at international level. On the other hand, while you, President, and part of the government were in the United States or Bolonya, the Spanish State made more of a Spanish state than ever: on Tuesday, Mr. Rajoy was here to make a conference. A little came to do there..., the pare carabasser's game, anticipated some promises of a rain of millions, but more than a rain of millions was a stone of reality, with a double motiu: first, because what he announced was less than what had already been announced during the year 2008, and then because yesterday itself, therefore, went from the promises to the certain ones and his assumptions denied him himself. So, zero credibility. On the other hand, the State too, along with "a non-existent paste, but" a very strong enough syrup, so last week we also lived like for the first time a deputy, an ex-counselor – in this case, Councilman Homs – so he had to leave his deputy's record to be sentenced to the Supreme Court and get out of bad manners at mid-plenary session, so what did he do? For having been loyal to this Parliament and its mandates and for having put the ballot box down. I, obviously, the divendres, as it was divendres, had recourse to the Constitutional Court. And again, therefore, an appeal was filed from the premises of this chamber. And, besides, if there wasn't enough they threatened, so, criminally, all the members of the government. Obviously, the Constitutional Court, as a faithful servant of Moncloa's political interests, met urgently to complete its orders. Let us not talk, therefore, about the activity of the prosecution, which has been converted directly into a political police force. For all this we see these days the contrasts between what makes Catalonia, which is admiring, talking, dialogue at the international level with the best countries of the world, and what has made, therefore, the Spanish State, which are the most practical of all..., is why we ask him what value he has made, of his trip to the United States and Bologna, in contrast to what has been done these days the Spanish State respects Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.115.0	Thank you, Mr. Turull. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.116.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Turull, the appreciation is extremely positive, in line with the one made by Councillor Baiget of his trip to Xina. I think we can give good news to the economic and social sectors that were represented in these trips. I will start with the Fira de Bolonya, where in these days the most important fira has occurred in the field of children's and youth's literature. Fira in which, after fifty-four editions, this is the first time – first – that there is like the official guest the culture of a born without being yet. And believe 'that the satisfaction is high for what it does to the organizers, when I say it explicitly, as for what it does to the, in fi, illustrators, authors, editorials, participants of this fira, in which there are many commercial transactions of interest. The Government wanted to give all its resources, and, obviously, to take advantage to explain Catalan culture, which is the culture expressed in Catalan language, in collaboration, certainly, with the Government of the Balearic Islands, with the Government of the Valencia Country and with the Government of Andorra. For what it does in the United States, the balance is very positive, basically because it is found at what it costs so much and so much to do in the Spanish State, which is: the interest to listen and the extreme enabled to ask and listen to what we have to say. It's interesting, believe me. No one told me about the dial operation. No one has asked me about the investments announced for Rajoy. People asked me what's going on in Catalonia, the democratic plot that's going on. The unanimous recommendation has been: you, as democratic and elected politicians, must honour your electoral agenda, there is no other option than this. And that's for the Harvard conference, of which we have not paid a euro – or a euro – to be able to do it; for the meeting with MIT with Catalan entrepreneurs in many respects; for the signature with Wilson Center to exchange experiences and knowledge in urban renewal management; for the meeting with the Smithsonian Folklife Festival, the most important traditional and popular culture festival in the United States, to be held in Washington; for the meeting with the Smithsonian Folklife Festival; for the meeting with the United States, to be held in Washington, New York Times; for the meeting with the Congressionals of the United States; for the meeting with other speakers of the communication, to be held in Washington, New York Times, to be held in Washington; for the meeting with the Congress of the United States, to be held in Washington, New York Times, to be held in Washington, to be held in Washington, to be held in Washington, to be held in Washington, to be held in Washington, to be held in Washington, to be held in Washington, to be held in Washington, to be held in Washington, to be held in Washington, to be by the Political Affairs, to be attended by the Congress, to be held in Barcelona, to be held in Washington, to be a meeting, to be held in Washington, to be a meeting, to be held in Washington, to be held in Washington, to be a meeting, to be held in Washington, to be a meeting, to be held in Washington, to be a meeting, to be a meeting, to be a meeting, to be held in Washington, to be in Washington, to be a meeting, to be held in Washington, to be held in Washington, to be held in Washington, to be a meeting, to be a meeting, to be held in Washington, to be held in Washington, to be a meeting, to be held in Washington, to be a meeting, to be held in Washington, to be a meeting, to be a meeting, to be held in Washington, to be a meeting, to be held in Washington, to be a meeting, to be a meeting, to be a meeting, to be held in Washington, a meeting, to be a meeting, to be a meeting, to be a meeting, to be a meeting, to be held in Washington, to be held in Washington, to be held in Washington, to be a meeting, to be held in Washington, to be We've done it, we'll do it and we'll keep doing it until the end, go. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.117.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Coscubala, we're in a control session, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.118.0	To make use of the right of our group, under Article 85, in relation to allusions made by the President of the Generality against the group imputing to us actions that could even constitute a crime. [[Widow's remorse.]] I, therefore, on the basis of Article 85, ask for the word for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.119.0	Mr. Coscubiela, there are no allusions, it's a control session – there are no allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.120.0	I'm sorry, no, it's just that there hasn't been an answer to the president. He's told us that we're making lists of journalists. And they ask you to withdraw these statements and apologize to the group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.121.0	Mr. Coscubiela, you don't have the word. [[Widow's remorse. Joan Coscubiela and Conesa intervenes without using the microphone.]] No, at the control session – at the control session – they don't give words. [[Someone said, "Oh, yes? From when? Rialles.]] [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia of condolences for the victims of the floods in Mocoa (Colombia)]] [[401-00023/11]] After the control session, we'll pass... read the statement with a motion for floods in Colombia. After reading this statement, we'll make a minute of silence. On behalf of the Parliament of Catalonia, I would like to greet the representative of the Consulate General of Colombia in Barcelona, who today accompanies us to the lot of guests to attend the reading of the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia of Condol for the victims of the floods in Mocoa, Colombia. I'm still praying to Secretary David Pérez for reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.122.0	Thank you, President. « Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia of condolences for the victims of the floods in Mocoa ( Colombia ). The Parliament of Catalonia expresses its condolences to the citizens and public institutions of Colombia for the victims and losses caused by the floods suffered by the municipality of Mocoa, and expresses its solidarity with all those affected and harmed by this tragedy. Palau del Parlament, April 5, 2017. [[In the chamber, dempeus, serve a minute of silence.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.123.0	Thank you very much. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] The next item on the agenda is: communication to the plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees shall be communicated to the plenary. As the new composition of the Bureau of the Committee on the Study of Entrepreneurship and Self-Government is included in the dossier that has already been distributed to all Members, I urge you to complete your reading. Okay? [[Pause.]] Completing the rule 49.2, let's move to the next point of the order of the day. [[Proposition of the Law on Urgent Measures for the Prevention and Treatment of Child Abuse Situations in the Education Area (totality debate)]] [[202-00030/11]] The third item on the agenda is a total debate on the proposal for urgent measures for the prevention and treatment of child abuse situations in the field of education. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, is presented by Mrs Laura Vílchez. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Mrs. Vílchez, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.124.0	Thank you, President. Today we are presenting a bill with urgent measures against child abuse in the field of education. What this law says, basically and summarising, is 'enough. We offer with this bill a revulsive, a first proposal so that we can start talking with absolutely all groups, so that we can tackle among all the best ways to solve a problem that unfortunately is increasingly present in our educational institutions and which causes deep discomfort between boys and girls of school age. Open, but firm, because with this proposal we have intended to bring all the measures of prevention, detection, treatment, which are contained in some existing protocols, which have proved ineffective when years after their creation have not only failed to achieve their objective: nor have they prevented the results from getting worse. I must admit that it is gratifying to mark the political agenda of the Government, which this very week was ahead of the debate on this bill with a new star announcement about a coexistence plan that it intends to implement in schools. This announcement shows us three things: one, that we were actually right when we denounced that the existing protocols were useless; two, that it is recognized that the situation in the centres is unacceptable, that they have been forced to act, although with a lukewarmness that we believe the matter does not deserve, and three, that, therefore, this bill, which was already registered a year ago, was necessary and is necessary today. We have to be aware once that child abuse, whatever type it is, has the power to mark the lives of the victims, which affects their physical health, emotional well-being, psychological health and academic performance; that it is important for families to know that their children are going to be fine, that it is not anything, that it is important. Let's put ourselves in a position. Diego, 11 years old, committed suicide. "I can't find any other way not to go to school," said the note he left. Manuel Barbero, whom we have here today, we all know who he is, is the father of a child sexually abused by a pederast confessed at the College of Maristas in Barcelona, and says: "I am more hurt by the attitude of the Maristas than that of the pederast. Arancha, sixteen years old, with intellectual and motor disability, commits suicide after telling her teacher that another student demands money and coerces her with messages. Alan, seventeen years old, from Rubí, transsexual who takes his life for not enduring the school harassment he suffered, everything and having tried to change center on several occasions. And so I could exhaust my time by setting examples of realities, because they are examples, but they are real, realities that incomprehensiblely fall asleep to the Administration. Surely the most comfortable thing is that we could keep looking elsewhere, we could keep covering these situations by removing the iron, we could keep calling the parents who come to denounce the cases vehemently. We could, but we will not, because today the Ciutadans Group, after assessing the situation, has decided not to give any more truce, has decided to force the Government of the Generalitat to give an answer to these situations as they deserve, with the strength they deserve and with the protection that both the complainants and the aggressors deserve, let us not forget that the aggressors are also children. We have decided clearly and firmly to hold Diego's hand, Arancha's hand, Manuel's hand or Alan's hand, and we are going to do it for them, for them and for all those who do not go out in the media but who today, a couple of hours ago, were going into school frightened and praying for a good day today. These are stories of school harassment, of sexual abuse in school, of gender-based violence among minors, of unbearable pressure, of suffering, of discrimination by LGBTIphobia that none of them, much less at their age, deserved to have lived, that no child deserves to live, much less in school. We will not allow these situations to become the daily reality of many children in schools. It's not fair. And it's not fair because we can't say today that we don't have data, that we don't know about the problem and act. Because Diego, like many others, suffered from school harassment. The report on school harassment« I do not play that game, prepared by Save the Children, among many other things, shows that almost 10_per_cent of students suffer school harassment, and a 7_per_cent, cyberbullying. Almost a 30 – a 30! – claims to have received physical blows, and 7_per_cent, frequently. It draws the attention of this study that the main reason that stalkers give is a simple ‘I don't know why I did it' or ‘I wanted to play a joke. It's just that I mention it because I don't want us to ever forget that aggressors are often children too. But school harassment isn't childish stuff. School harassment is violence, and these forms of violence are often invisible, due to the silence of the victims themselves, either out of shame or fear of increasing aggression. Silence even of witnesses, comrades, for fear of becoming the target of stalkers. The survey on school coexistence and security in Catalonia adds that violence occurs within educational institutions, within the framework of the class group, regardless of the centre, ownership or socio-economic level. It further notes that the only percentage that decreases is that of communication to adults, teachers or family members. And it's that silence invades everything. When it comes to addressing child abuse, silence is imposed and the Administration is muted. We are well aware of this by the members of the Committee on Children, who can say that it is a shared and common goal to put loudspeakers on what the victims, the entities representing them or the professionals have to say. We have heard many testimonies, some very hard. And that is why we share the need to act. Entities are claiming shares. The same Home Secretary explained last February that complaints of sexual abuse of minors increased by 68_per_cent in Catalonia last year. Manuel Barbero's son was the first to report, but many like him have followed him, who, driven by his courage, have decided to report, with all that it entails; that child also happened in school. Alexandra Membrive, from the World of the ASI, also came to see us and showed us the drama that supposes that schools, the place where children spend more hours a day, still do not know today to read the alarm signs that the children show. Teachers don't have the tools to get right in acting or detection. This is why the role of the school is so important. Alan was harassed for discrimination on the grounds of transphobia. The Observer against Homophobia publishes in its 2016 annual report an alarming increase in LGBTIphobic harassment, which goes from 4.4 to 13. They justify it with truthful cases, such as that of a minor who has to endure painted with his name followed by « faggot and another in the car with his name followed by « is a girl. Like most of these cases, the mother complains and the school does not act. He got the syndic to issue a resolution, but in the end the child changes center. Because now the change of center is the only resource that families find to put an end to the situation, and as in this case, in the case of Alan, they have not yet succeeded. The case of Arancha, which he commented earlier, could represent the group of children with disabilities, with some developmental disorder or with special educational needs. For example, almost half of children with autistic spectrum disorder suffer from school harassment, which exposes them more closely to exclusion and drop-out; also children with high abilities. In addition, there are studies that place 83 – 83 – of women with intellectual disabilities as victims of sexual abuse. Data from a United Nations study. Well, with all the above, do you think this is solved by a protocol? , with a new cohabitation plan announcement? We don't think so. Almost all groups have expressed our mistrust about the efficiency and committees that have been set up. That is why, with this bill, we have been committed to extreme prevention through coordination between departments in a rigorous and practical manner. It's okay to drain the lump. It's good to keep thinking about how we do it. Now we have to act. We don't want paralyzed teachers; we want them protected and empowered to know how and when to act. We do not want more families, neither victims nor aggressors, without accompaniment; they have to have a clear map of steps to follow in order to solve their calvary. And finally, we don't want sad children in schools; we want them free. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.125.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Vílchez. Then, in order to defend the project to the totality, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, has the word Ms Montserrat Vilella.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.126.0	Thank you, President. Benvolgudes consellers, deputies, deputies, good morning. Today, again, the Citizens' Group proposed to us to deal with a topic for our country, for any society. Prevention, detection, attention, treatment and action to prevent situations of child abuse and youth is obvious... in this case, in the educational world, but it is obvious that it is a top issue in our country. And I want to thank them, especially Mrs Vílchez..., who, in the Committee on Children's Affairs we share space, so since the first day has worked and is working on this issue; we share many ways of seeing this issue, we share the priority that a country must have in these areas. It is obvious that any country has to ensure that infants and young people, like any other person, but they, because of their special vulnerability, have to grow free, free from all violence, free from any abuse, and that no one ever does to a child that is not to be done to a child. And that's what we all share; it's obvious. But – and here's the deal – we don't think the text they propose to us today is the solution. And that's why we submitted a statement to the totality. And I would also like to clarify this, because before your group's spokesman, then, make reference to it, as if our group, Together for the Yes, does not want to discuss these issues. And as long as we want to debate them! And thank you that all groups can carry at any time. The only thing we're saying about this whole thing is that this text doesn't seem like a solution to us, it doesn't work for this 'to the extent that Congresswoman Vílchez gave. I mean, it's just... That's just it. And I'll try to explain. We start from the idea..., because it is obvious that when there are cases of abuse we are unworthy – we are unworthy – but we start from the idea that we have a good education system, that we have excellent professionals and that we have educational spaces – the schools – secure. But, as Constable Ruiz said in the past or in one of the appearances she made in the committee, only that there is a case detected, only that there is a case, even though it is not detected... but, if the detection, only that there is a case, this justifies that we rethink everything we are doing, because it means that there has been a system error. It's a social scam, and we have to bear in mind that it's present, that it is. And that's important. And that's why it's important and I appreciate that you're carrying this proposal, even though sometimes it gives me the feeling that you were carrying it and you need to carry it to say that it's about other things and to justify the initial question that made you represent it. But in any case, it's a social chess that we all have to fight to do real things. He said that when a case of these appears... – and there is Mr Barbero here, now, who has arrived; let us take advantage to greet him and for his courage, that we have shown him or that we have wanted him to arrive on other occasions, therefore, that he has been here in Parliament, his courage to denounce him, and so, therefore, to beat everyone–, we say that when these cases appear to us, they are unworthy of us, they make us react. « Indignant means to be very angry, but it also means to be unworthy of something. In this case, when we are indignant about a case of abuse or abuse, it means that we are not worthy of the child or the young, because we have not done the protection we were to do. And, therefore, we must react. And every one has to react to the responsibilities he has. And this chamber must also react, and it is good that it reacts. And what do we have to ask ourselves? What do we have to change from our laws so that I don't go through these cases of abuse and abuse again? What do we need to do better because it really has an impact, because it has a real impact, in this case, on the schools? And what we say is that this text doesn't work because it has a real impact. I, by the way, try to explain it. We have a law, which is 14/2010..., and that, by analyzing what you propose and what you say the law, we see that it is better than the law we have, and that it has already been approved by this chamber, and more unanimously, and that it has been very worked out, and that it has a good one..., it is much more extensive, it is not just of this aspect, but it is exhaustive. You propose two great things and then some other, therefore, alternatives, but two great tools: a protocol and a single register. The protocol, it's obvious that when these cases come up, the counselor has to be checked. And that's what it was: the law was in 2010, the protocol was in 2012, on the 14th there was a change, but on the 16th there was a more important change, because it's obvious that when we sacsemos, when we analyze what didn't work, it's when we can make this tool, that it's a protocol, it's better. So now we have, a few months ago, a much better protocol, which will have to be reviewed as many times as you need. The law also allows you to say the single register as the unified register of maltreatments. And, therefore, that already allows. What you display in the text would be more of a presentation of this article of the same law. They propose other questions, but what you initially said justified this text and that we are told to deny the major is that there is no clear legislation in this area. Llegeixo : « Also, the absence of a true, clear and secure legal framework for educational operators seems to be an undesirable situation and contrary to the prevention objectives that should be achieved. We don't agree with that. And more often than not, the text that you propose does not cancel the law, but it can cause it to be confounded; at a point that is essential because things are still effective is in the complaint, the complaint of who is in the front, the complaint of the teacher, the complaint of the other students, of the clues or of the certain ones, but also of the clues. And you also suggest that in public office this is punished, that I did not denounce these clues... that it is, therefore, considered to be difficult or very difficult. But the problem is when we go to the articles where you expose how to denounce this, which is Article 8 and 9, because, among other things, they have a "good faith" collection: who in good faith detects these indications must denounce it or not make his superiors aware. I, if I were a master, a teacher or any other person, would be concerned about something that, apart from the criminal issue, apart from what might have effects at the level of functioning, someone had to decide whether or not I was going in good faith when I was trying to make this complaint. But in any case, we'd have to ask the teacher, see if that's the peace of mind, the clarity, or, in any case, still the most confusing. Anyway, you said, "Proud; let's do something at once. I'm sorry, but actions in this country to fight against abuse and abuse, before you exist Citizens, are already fighting, by lot. There were always problems and there were always those punctual cases, but they're already full of things. And we need to see if those things are good and who we need to change. Deia Michel Crozier, a sociologist who is defined as a sociologist of the daily environment, in a book, that society is not changing by decree. And what does that mean? That a society needs laws– doesn't mean we don't need laws to re–, but because there's a social change there's got to be something more than these laws. And he was a public administration specialist. And in this case, what we see is that, because there really is this social change, this protection that we have to do to the children, and so, again, to their families, and the work that we have to do with their families, there must be something more than read them. The law, we have it, which is that of 2010, where it is backwards – and we understand that its text does not improve – what is to be done and what is not to be done in these cases, but something more needs to be done for this social change. What do we understand that it is important to change socially or that we change all the folds so that we can give this protection to the infants? So, make it very clear that the mistreatments exist. That's why my thanks go before Mr. Barbero, because by denouncing him and making him public, we have socially in our minds, everyone, that abuse and abuse exist, that they may be in the family sphere but also in the field of teaching, in the area of schools, in the area where children are, because the abusers, the abusers that they are doing are looking for children and loving each other. Therefore, we must all be very aware that this exists and that it can exist in our country, and that we must act. These are the two important social changes. The fact that there are more complaints, Mrs. Vílchez, does not mean that there are more situations of abuse or abuse; it probably means that everyone is more aware that this is not to be done and that it is to be denounced. And it's a ball; it's a ball: a denunciation and the others are excited to do it. And, therefore, this is social change. That's what we're looking for. The counselor told us about it the other day, in the appearance: we have a law that allows us..., with an updated protocol. But we have more to do. And what else did he do? The President of the Generality also said this today: so, the plan of coexistence, important, because it totally lowers what the law says, what the protocol says..., and it lowers it to the educational community, it lowers it to the teachers, but it also allows working with the families, which I know is that since the department is taking place. Because we don't have to forget, these kids have families that are the ones who want to protect and they also have to protect, like society, these children. The fact that we would be very well able to debate are other things, than the Law 14/2010, other things that we would normally have to discuss the groups and that the councilwoman also announced to us: we would have to talk about the prescription of the crimes, we would have to talk about the precautionary measures, because, if not, the Administration is stuck before situations that the families ask it to act and cannot act. Let's talk about these things, let's change regulations, let's legislate on this. And we also have on the table the question of the register of criminal offences, of sexual offences, which many families ask, saying: "How can a person be delinquent and not aware of this and not able to stop being able to be with infants? Therefore, we talk about things that can actually change the situation and improve it. Finally, we just say: we have a law that is very clear, we have some choices that are safe spaces, we have the media to be able to act before cases of abuse, but, we never forget, the abusers seek to escape these measures. The social change..., what we have to do is that everyone is aware that at some point he donated, in the first person, can be the agent that guarantees the protection of that child. And when that happens, that person, be a master, be a concierge, be a doctor, be a social worker, who is..., that he is aware that at that time, in the first person, he is the agent of guarantee, of protection of that child, and that he knows who to go to and what to do to protect him. So let all this situation, that these cases that appear, unfortunately, still, and that will most likely continue to appear, serve us to act effectively and to make all of us fold a little more worthy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.127.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Villa. To turn against, has the word Ms. Laura Vílchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.128.0	Thank you, President. Well, in this turn I am supposed to position myself on the amendment tabled. Junts pel Yes presents us, nothing more and nothing less, than an amendment to the whole. The first thought that comes to my mind is: how can anyone propose to veto that one can speak—that one can speak—on such a sensitive subject and what is the best way to address it? Because I want to make it clear, very clear, that today we did not come to vote on this text, today we only vote that we can talk about it, that we can talk about it. We bring a first proposal, but that, if accepted, all groups – all groups – would have the possibility to work the text, to amend, to put it, to remove; all with the intention that, if today this proposal is better, we will all get an excellent law that covers everything necessary for situations of child abuse in the educational field to stop, at once, being given. It does not even have to replace protocols or systems that contribute to good coexistence in the centers, but it is necessary that in a law everyone has a clear role to play. The spokesman for Junts pel Yes says that the department..., told us yesterday in the commission, when we were talking about the KiVa method, that the department works intensively. Intensely? Today, now, there are people looking for a new center to change their children. You always have an excuse not to talk about what really matters, either because the text is very generic, because it is very concrete..., always – always – there is an excuse. In addition, it announces the new cohabitation plan that we will have in the centers and that will be implemented over the next three years. Three years? That the department says the department works with families. I... I'd like you to introduce me to a family the department's working with. I'd really like that. He said, "Let's talk about these things. Talk. I'll take the ejection back to the full and we'll talk. New cohabitation plan. Again, nothing, this plan is recycled: Memory 2011 of the General Directorate of Family Care and Educational Community. Paragraph 1: « Web, family and school; paragraph 2: « Project of coexistence. Well, it just seems... really, it seems like a joke. Despite the fact that the first law on education in democracy, the LODE of 1985, already recognized the need to guarantee the integrity and well-being of all students, the department took twenty-five years to create an administrative unit to deal with and deal with these situations. The 2009 LEC already collects it. Children's Act. If it is undeployed, it is 2010! 2017, it's undeployed. The same with the law to guarantee the rights of LGBTI people, without deploying. Another example: the registration to which he referred, which we also refer in the law, the RUMI, the Single Register of Child Abuse. Although it was declared by an order of the department in 2007 – in 2007 – ten years ago. The Government has told us that soon – soon – it will extend to schools, because right now only the ill-treatment that has been detected in the hospital area is reported. That is, that there is still no abuse in school, in the family, of extra-curricular activities... Are they really going to prevent this from being talked about? Don't you have anything to say? Would they have nothing to contribute? Everything you've told me, Mrs. Vilella, is excuses. It's perhaps because it's our proposal, because it's citizens' proposal. It doesn't make sense, because we all know that things can be done better. And they do not serve any prevention protocols that do not prevent, protocols of action that do not activate, and the most serious of all: protocols totally unknown by the professionals who are in the day-to-day of the children. We all know that the paper endures everything and that we could continue to debate the quality of the protocols, re-modifying... Meanwhile we continue to see cases like that of the Barcelona Marists, how the complaints increase, which I do not say, which the Councillor says. My position with regard to this amendment is that it is regrettable – regrettable. We want a remedy for the stomach pains of Sunday afternoon, against the'mom, I don't want to go to school, and against the crying in the playground. And you offer us to play to conform and see how long we stand with our arms crossed, and that's not what we play. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.129.0	Thank you, Mrs. Vílchez. Then, to fix his position, has the word Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.130.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members of Parliament, Mr Barbero, before I began I would like to make the point that yesterday, April 4, was the World Day against Child Prostitution. And I think that, with the subject we are dealing with in this law, I would be able to make it just like Parliament because..., to remind you, as much as every year, that 1_million children, especially children, are prostitutes, and that a 60_per_cent are younger than seven years, who are trafficked as sex slaves. And, therefore, you go for the absolute condemnation of my parliamentary group and, I also understand, of the rest of the groups of this chamber. The proposed law we are discussing today in the plenary as an objective, according to Ciutadans explains, equip the educational environment with a series of mechanisms to detect, prevent and act in situations with maltreatment to minors. And, to be sure, it's an important issue that we need to be sensitive to. In fact, according to Save the Children's childhood barometer that made us arrive a few days ago, one of two victims of sexual abuse in Catalonia is a child or a teenager. According to data from the Mossos d'Esquadra, 17,300 minors who were victims of criminal offences in the year 2015, 55_per_cent were victims of sexual abuse, 12.7_per_cent were victims of maltreatment and 42_per_cent were victims of other causes, among which are also those types of mistreatment and mistreatment. Remember that 21 babies were victims of female genital mutilation and 9 of forced marriages in Catalonia. Between the years 2011 and 2015, children and victims of gender-based violence also increased by 24,6_per_cent. Therefore, there are some data that pose in full the need to be even more forceful in the protection of the child. And, in fact, this issue should be a real country issue. This Parliament and the Government of Catalonia should make the protection of the child their absolute priority, because only institutions can protect, because we have signed international treaties that ask and force us to do so, and because we talk about helpless people and people, children and children who are unprotected. The proposal of the law we bring today to debate, this proposal, therefore, proposes this design of a specific protocol to prevent and detect mistreatment jointly between the Administration and the educational community. He talks about the RUMI as a single register of indications and complaints of maltreatment of minors, of public ownership with data obtained for administrations, by centres, departments, both in the public and private sectors. We propose to include in the teaching centers in Catalonia specific training given to the teachers of the same center, also to specialized personnel, for the prevention and treatment of maltreatment to minors, in a periodic way with necessary resources, both economic and human; and it also implies the teaching and direction of the centers in the obligation to notify any signs of maltreatment. So, so, from the start, it still looks right and it still looks fantastic. So much so that the content of this law is often in various protocols that are already signed and that are working or, as a minimum, that are presented; at last, with some that have already been presented in 2006. Therefore, previous protocols, let's say, at the last years. So, as much as the music sounds good to us, there's nothing new about this law proposal. Making a bill against child abuse or child abuse in Catalonia is very serious. It is a subject that directly affects childhood and asks all of us, that stands before the miracle of the society that we have and that we have built and that we live in. Making a law to prevent abuse or sexual abuse must come out of the consensus of all or, as a minimum, the vast majority of the consensus of parties that have representation in this parliamentary chamber. We are more in favour of a country pact than we are of a law. If they are not worth races..., we consider that they are not worth races by political parties to see who is the first to bring the law to Parliament, which are absolutely legitimate by parliamentary groups. But no text can be presented – no text can be presented – to say that we were the first to present a law of these characteristics. You're constantly telling us that they're the ones that make the most social proposals and maybe they're right. I don't know, I didn't count it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. But it's not a lot of fans, it's just the quality of the proposals they make. And carrying a law of mistreatment in this Parliament with this content, while I absolutely agree, to the cent_per_cent, with its initial exposure, is not a match to the written text. And that's the problem with this law, isn't it? Our parliamentary group believes that it should be a much more global law. A more general law, because if we now legislate mistreatment in the school environment, we will have to do one tomorrow to legislate mistreatment in the sport environment or we will have to do one to legislate mistreatment in the family environment, etc. I need a much bigger law, and if not a law, I might want to think if the law of childhood and adolescence that we have could be even more powerful, modify it because it's more powerful in the realm of abuse or sexual abuse. Since the PSC, we believe that the content proposed to us by Citizens is more similar to a protocol than a law, but we agree with it: we agree with the need to express this law's proposal to be more forceful in relation to abuse. Catalonia should launch a clear message respecting this issue. We will not allow abuse of childhood and act with absolute force with the abusers, and we will not pass any attitude, protect the victims and act forcefully against the assailant, pile up where he is, behind a computer screen, behind a screen of the mobile, behind a public, private, religious or secular educational center. And we understand that the government is not launching this message. The declarations of respect, which is sometimes a fan of the government, do not correspond with reality. And I understand, therefore, that Ciutadans can come up with the fact that we can legislate it because otherwise we're not going out and we're not going out. The most shameful episode, which I lived as a deputy in this chamber, happened a few months ago when the Junts for the Yes Group, deputies of the PDECAT and of the Republican Left voted two times in five minutes against presenting themselves as a popular accusation to the Marists' court. This is a clear example of which is the power of this government before the situation of one of the judges with the most abused people of the last years in this country. This is a clear example of which is the strength of this government before these issues, but we have more. He was celebrating the month of May of the year when he was leaving the Interdepartmental Committee for the follow-up of sexual abuse protocols. That's good news! It was very good news because we had an organ that could coordinate, that could tell us where we failed and where we failed. This interdepartmental committee only met two times during the year 2016: one to form and the other, I guess, to start the work. That we don't know, because the acts don't reflect what it is that was explained in those committees. Twice! A very important committee! So let's continue with this feeling that what the government says isn't a match to the facts that it's after. The government and the group that gives him shelter cannot say that we defend childhood and spend seven years to deploy the Law of Childhood, and they don't deploy it faster because they don't want to. Seven years to deploy the Children's Law! Seven years! Three laws of disconnection, in part, are closed, but they are unable to develop, in seven years, the Law of Rights and Opportunities of Childhood, which is very good, which we have made in consensus, which we have made among all. But, please, do the unfolding, presumptively do it, this law, so you can pull it forward. I'm not telling you anymore, I'm telling you the Catalonian Table of Childhood and Adolescence, the TIAC, which groups more than twenty-one entities, that you're telling them that neither the Pact for Childhood is working nor is unfolding. In Catalonia, we spend 0.8_percent of GDP on childhood policies, much below the European average. Are we targeting zero_euros at schools in Bressol, or is it that zero-three education is not important in this country for the formation of children, children and children? The 11.1_percent of the population under seven years of age has severe material deprivation; 644 guardianship children pending a protection remedy, to our protection system, 83 children pending entry to a CRAE, 523 pending to be guardianship by alien family, a KiVa project that four_months ago approved, at the General Policy Debate, to put it on the march and to make a study. Yesterday, the same people who approved it said they didn't vote against it. Is this the protection? Three_of_each_two children in Catalonia are at risk of poverty; they eliminate child benefits. Iron, in September 2016, a proposal for a child's income of EUR 12 per month for infants was a bad proposal, which fortunately, then, could be referred to. In short, the Socialist Parliamentary Group cannot raise a much better proposal for legislation on a subject as important and as sensitive as this. Working well on the content, we do it in a consensual way, if they want, and we pull it forward, but with this text we can't pick it up. Nor can we agree with a thought of totality, which is learned to say that the content is insufficient, when what is insufficient is the action of the government before these situations. Therefore, the announcement – and I finish – that my group will abstain in the vote from the challenge to the totality. Every child who suffers ill-treatment, who is assaulted, who is abused, sees him alone. Only public powers can protect them and their families. We therefore continue to be rigorous in this area, and the protection of the child is a country's priority issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.131.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. The words of Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.132.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs, Mr. Barbero, I will begin to read you some fragments of a book entitled Ràbia, written by Lolita Bosch. Says: "I say Lolita Bosch, I write, do journalism, research and activism for cock, I like to live life as a living mother and as a living mother. I'm forty-five years old, but until now I've never dared to say publicly that, from fourteen to one, I've been bullied. A little more forward, referring to a teenager who is currently patenting bullying, because Lolita Bosch, in this book talks to girls and girls who are patenting bullying, says: "A. She was locked in a box in the garden of the schoolyard and no one helped her out, even though they felt her cry, cry, ask for help, say she had to, that she wanted to go out and that she couldn't get any deeper, that she already saw the abyss, but out of the box the other students acted as if they didn't care and insulted her. Fat, marginalized, lletja, boja. You'd do better by killing yourself. We don't fly here. It wasn't until the father of A. She went looking for her, after the late morning class, and she noticed that she didn't get out of school, that she started looking for her with despair. He found out what had happened and called an ambulance because, when he opened the hort box, the A. He didn't let him lie down. When the ambulance arrived, the driver denied the head of the study center because he had not opened the door to the girl, and the head of study said: "You should have seen her. I was hysterical, I wouldn't have served anything and we didn't know how I could react. You wouldn't have done it either. That you don't see how it got, for a joke of nothing? If I've read them this fragment is to reschedule three questions. The first is that, as in the case of sexual abuse and maltreatment, many people who have been bullied do not like to confess it until it is great, like Lolita Bosch or, for example, Sergio Vila-Sanjuán, who spent the year or two years ago also published a novel for young people about bullying, because he had suffered it. Or like other books written by Catalan authors based on the sexual abuse they themselves suffered from babies, the titles of which I will not unravel because I don't know if they want us to know that they were victims. The second question is that bullying is a behavior that is generally between equals in educational spaces and that obeys the idea of superiority that an individual has, respects another, for which he is subjected to constant humiliations, but that individual, who is certainly a troubled boy, can only act as he does because he has the help of the group. And the third question is that often a part of the teacher doesn't matter, he considers it a joke that is a fan among young people. Sometimes, even with his attitude, he contributes to the bullying of that creature. I recommend that you read Lolita Bosch's book to find out how some teacher took over it, and I assure you that Lolita's book is not a single case. Says the professor of psychology Maite Garaigordobil: "The harassment occurs, to a large extent, because observers allow it. When we ask observers why they don't do anything, the most repeated answer is, "Because they deserve it." In other words, there is an attribution of responsibility to the victims, not to the aggressor. I referred to a part of the faculty, not the whole faculty, I stress that the collection does not offend, but it is rebellious against the companies and companies that do not act as they should. A few years ago she was talking to a master, excellent professional, about the case of a seven-year-old child with a breakdown of the autistic spectrum, whom her teacher held for three months working alone, facing the wall. And she said to me: "This is not the way people should devote themselves to the magisterium. All this prelude has been to say how important it is for our group to preserve the integrity and intimacy of our children and young people. Mr. Barbero also knows that. We have demonstrated this quite well, at the length of the entire legislature, and we agree, therefore, with Ciutadans' concern. Therefore, we have looked at the purpose of the law that they have presented to us with the most kind eyes that we have ever had and have given many times, but we come to the conclusion that this is not the law that we are looking for and that, much as we want, we cannot write it down. We don't think that abuse, sexual abuse, and bullying have a higher prevalence than it did a few years ago, second, you could unravel the law's motive. What is now more sensitive to these problems, and that's fine. Neither do we share the idea expressed in the mottos, according to which school membership is the most common for the underage. This idea of space is more of a first in the 20th century than a first in the 21st century. Now, with the new technologies, it's hard to say what's inside and what's outside. At present, space can be at the same time more than anywhere else. For example, a boy can be in the classroom and, at the same time, in a room with a companion who lives in Holland, not much different from what happens in this hemisphere. You may be in the hemicicle and, meanwhile, anywhere outside the hemicicle through the gangs. More than that, it seems to me that the proposal of law sweeps aspects that it does not fit to sweep: abuse and sexual abuse, of one band, and bullying of the other. It's more like an explosive barrier. On the other hand, the fact of sweeping these so different aspects also implies that the causes may sometimes be the adults and the same companies. We consider it totally unacceptable that it is barbaric in the same law, more in view of the fact that underage children do not have criminal responsibility. On the other hand, the law includes measures that have already been approved for this Parliament, concretely, a motion on sexual abuse in childhood and adolescence, presented for our group a year ago and approved for unanimity. It also includes aspects that are provided for in the Law of Rights and Opportunities of Childhood and Adolescence. We also have the Interdepartmental Committee, which would be convinced that the batteries are laid. Nor have we just heard of the need for this single register of indications and complaints; we already have a register, the RUMI or unified register of child abuse. It would be appropriate to evaluate it, determine whether it works and modify what it needs. I am surprised that the law's proposal does not speak at any time of the coexistence plans, phone book, not only contemplated for the LOGSE, but also for our LEC. I would like to make it, too, to cyberbullying, that the proposal of law deals very much with past. Cyberbullying has a much more perverse component than bullying, and it is that it is not circumscribed in the center, accompany the student to the length of day and night and outside the center. Cyberbullying requires, to be combated, more involvement on the part of the faculty. There's not enough to do a sociogram to see how the students are located and if there's anyone left. Now, for boys and girls, digital identity is more important than face-to-face, almost. And so, the teacher has to be at the water of this non-faced space, it's not easy. In short, and returning to the law, we consider that it generates more problems than we do not solve. Catalonia Yes, it is Pot considers that it can intervene very directly in the abuse, sexual abuse or bullying that can be given in the school environment, at the same time the harmful consequences that it has on the personal and social development of children and young people and on their self-esteem. That's why there's no doubt about it. But we think that it would be good to do so, above all, to promote an environment of coexistence and welcome. For this reason, we insist on the need to develop school co-existence plans, at which centres are obliged by law. We are convinced that the life of the centres should not revolve around a regulatory and coercive model, but rather a cohabitation model that should be defined in the centre project. The educational community should be a small, ethical community and learn to live together and together should be one of the foundational pillars of education. This educational community should be gathered in a series of basic axes: the gathering of any person, student or teacher you entered new; the tutoring as an instrument for collective reflection; the work of emotions and, especially, empathy; the conflict as apart inherent in life and as opportunity, if you know how to manage well, to learn; the requirement of individual compliments and the collection of standards; the dialog; the creation of a collective consciousness where everyone is important. In short, it is not a matter of dealing with a problem, but of dealing with coexistence. For all these reasons, we cannot support this law proposal. Yesterday she explained to Congresswoman Vílchez that she could not let the law be processed because she thought it was inescapable, and she said to me: "Let it be processed and we will start from scratch, we will not make use of the text we have written. I'm sorry, Congresswoman, I don't think things can be done that way. If you think we need to start from scratch and you think we need to make a law, make a proposal to all groups to work together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.133.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. The words "Mrs. María José García", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.134.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, we want to welcome Manuel Barbero and also thank him for his merit as a father and as a person. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, talking about child abuse is talking about a deplorable form of violence, violence exercised through abuse of power against particularly vulnerable victims, because minors, our children, our adolescents, are vulnerable people, both to detect and avoid possible abuse, and to deal with it, denounce it and overcome it, if possible. Children are also particularly vulnerable because of the effect that an abuse situation has on their subsequent personal development, including on the configuration of the type of adult they will become. Adults who, even sometimes, and it's hard to say, could become adult abusers, reproducing the behaviors, the models that have lived in their childhood. In the same way as ordinary minors, raised in abuse, they can also become minor abusers of other minors. Violence, abuse, only generates suffering, pain, insecurity, disaffection with the environment that did not protect him and a truncated life with what might have been. An immense and irreversible personal and social damage. That is why we believe that we have a responsibility, as members of a Parliament with legislative powers, to deal with child abuse and to provide legislative solutions that will help to eradicate as effectively and as effectively as possible. Child abuse is a scourge that does not admit equidistance or mediation, because we must never put the victim and the aggressor on the same level, nor the impassable attitudes in a developed society. The victims, their well-being and, above all, preventing them from becoming so, must be at the heart of the debate. The objective should be to have effective prevention elements, sufficient, rapid and secure mechanisms for action, including as a collective commitment, not to forget the inescapable reparation these victims need. The experts, the manuals, tell us about different types of abuse, different scales of abuse. And it is true that the criminal severity of ill-treatment varies depending on the abuse, but we must bear in mind that every personal experience of ill-treatment marks in an individualized and definitive way. And the fact of feeling a victim of an unjust, violent and unnecessary act makes a big difference, because it has broken something difficult to recompose, which has a lot to do with the dignity of each person. We therefore have a great collective responsibility in this matter. Not only must we not avoid it, but we must tackle it and actively participate in the search for and implementation of protocols, mechanisms, universal, coherent, sensible and, above all, effective solutions. For these reasons we will not support the amendment to the whole presented by Junts pel Yes, beyond whether or not we share the approach and content of this proposed law presented by Citizens. Citizens propose that we legislate urgent measures to prevent and treat child abuse in the educational sphere. The first thing to say is that it is not only the educational field where statistically more and more serious cases of abuse occur – mention apart, of course, from bullying. With this we do not mean that we do not have to enter here, because the school is, after the family, the environment where minors spend more time and contributes more to their formation. The social environment that the child encounters in the school deeply marks his personal development. Their level of adaptation, of acceptance among peers, their relationship with older or younger peers, even with their teachers, their tutors, with the school's management teams, the model of behavior offered to them by these adults, definitely mark the way in which the child perceives the world, the social rules he learns, the valid and more efficient structures, and also more effective, to relate and to achieve his goals in life. Indisputably, the family environment conditions, favors, prepares or limits the influence that the school environment ends up having on the child, on his/her behavior, on his/her maturity, on his/her personality. But, in any case, the importance of the educational environment, especially in minors, is unquestionable. We therefore support the need to legislate with regard to abuse in the educational environment, but we do not understand that these standards are independent and disconnected from the necessary legislation to prevent and treat situations of abuse of minors in general, and mainly in the family sphere. We will not solve the problem if we affect different environments separately, when they are so related and influence coincidentally even in time. Nor are we sure that there is now, as the explanatory memorandum says, an uncertain legal framework for educational operators. It is true that the protocol is very recent, from 2016, but it exists. And it can certainly be improved, for example, in the area of training teachers, families and minors themselves, to detect, prevent, avoid, resolve and, if possible, denounce situations of abuse and ill-treatment. The councillor explained it to us in committee on November 15th, and it is certainly more effective and safer to analyze what is – its shortcomings, its failures – to improve it and to perfect it, to learn from the experiences, in collaboration, as a common front against abuse. Because this must not be a matter of confrontation or political use. That is why we believe that Junts pel Yes is wrong in presenting and maintaining this amendment as a whole, because it raises a rejection attitude to the possibility that we will now, among all of us, draw up complete, consensual legislation, and because it enters into a game of sides for and against legislation that we should not allow on such a sensitive and serious issue at the social level, but above all on a personal level, such as child abuse. For us, a basic principle is that the protocol, the level of demand, control, surveillance, support or sanction, if necessary, must be unique and universal, apart from the ownership of the centre, for all those who are part of the Servei d'Educació de Catalunya. The reason is that the protection of the child is, in the educational sphere, a matter of general interest, which is the ultimate responsibility of the administration responsible for providing the public service, which is education. Because let us not forget that the schooling of minors is compulsory until the age of sixteen; parents cannot decide whether or not to take their children to school, children cannot decide whether or not to go to school. Therefore, parents should be reassured that their children are absolutely protected and children should be reassured to go to school, because the administration that receives this responsibility is fully aware of it and has the necessary protection mechanisms. Because, as we said, the focus of the debate, the rule and the action of the Administration must be the least, its security, its well-being. In this sense, we believe that the proposed law presented to us is much better. In some respects it is repetitive; in others it is incomplete. We do not understand the structure very well: issues of different rank or category, as in article 4, are mixed in the same article. Particular organizational concepts are mentioned, such as the supreme direction of the centre. The approach to the detection, prevention, treatment and persecution of ill-treatment, as set out as an ambitious objective of the law in article 1, is correct, we share it, but it is very general in the proposal, without structured or well-developed content. However, in other respects, the proposal is overly detailed, as it says that schools with pupils with special educational needs have to have one tutor every five pupils. We do not understand why, moreover, the Administration has to be particularly diligent in these centres. Of course it must be diligent, but no less so than with the other students. We do not admit a degree in due diligence to avoid abuse of minors. Nor do we understand the repeated use of the concept of "good faith" referring to centres, teachers, the Administration, in their detection of indications or acceptance of complaints – Articles 8 and 9 – as if it were possible for teachers to act in bad faith. And, in the event that this good faith refers to the complainant, we believe that the wording of these articles is much better so that one can understand. The proposal speaks to us of the role of figures and structures which have not been introduced or explained previously, such as the body responsible for dealing with indications and complaints in article 9, which we do not know what it is, whether it is obliged to have it, whether it acts in each centre or in several, whether or not it has to do with the educational inspection... Curious, by the way, that the inspection is in this practically non-existent proposal, when in reality it plays such a relevant role. There are articles that repeat the same idea, in positive and negative, such as Article 10(1) and (2), which are doubtful as a legislative technique. Finally, when we enter Title II, on the single register, the processing with data protection is very confusing, when it would be sufficient to refer to the applicable legislation. In this title of the registration articles are introduced with questions that have nothing to do with the registration, such as article 17, on the duty of collaboration, or article 19, on the particular accusation, on 21, on the duties of the Generalitat, which had also been mentioned before. In short, the proposal lacks, in our opinion, the content and detail of relevant issues such as training, accompaniment and reparation; it raises mixed issues of different rank; it presents a confused structure and wording. It is not easy to know what the group intends to change and it is not easy to assess whether its proposals can or cannot be effective. As we said at the outset, the issue is extremely serious and important and deserves impeccable, complete, universal and reliable regulation, and we do not believe this text will succeed. However, as we have said, we support the initiative to regulate the law and we would work together to the extent of our possibilities to achieve good legislation during the paper work, if there were any. Because combating child abuse is an act of justice and of improving the quality of our society, both of which commit us and are definitely worth it. Thank you, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.135.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Next comes the word Gabriela Serra, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.136.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., MP Laura Vílchez, I assume that with the conversations we have had these days it has become very clear, meridically clear, that we deeply share all the negit that you care about the subject of child abuse. And that's precisely why we're very surprised that when entering a topic as important and delicate as child abuse situations and teenagers are treated with a law proposal, that you present, in a way we consider, as I said, that it's very little rigorous both in the background and in the form. And that is not because we doubt, or much less, the concern of the Citizen Group for the protection of childhood and adolescence in the school system; we do not doubt that it is sincere, as is ours, and strength, as is any group of this chamber. But precisely – precisely – for the concern, for the patience, for the disassociation and for the drama that generates the situations of maltreatment that you have detailed to us scrupulously, we must be deeply rigorous and accurate, accurate at the time of setting up any initiative. And that's what we don't see in the law you introduce us to. That's right, and you let me irony, huh? But let's celebrate, from another band, that you have a concern for us because the school is vague..., Ciutadans' concern for the school is vaguer than the language in which it is taught or taught and that it involves a subject as important as the subject of maltreatment. Miri, we will abstain; we will abstain for various reasons. Fixed, we start from the basis that on March 3rd of last year this Parliament approved Motion 6/XI, on measures to guarantee the protection of children in the educational and other formative areas, and precisely in point 1.a urged the Government to modify the protocol of action existing between the departments then called Benestar Social, Family and Education. A protocol that already existed since June 2012 and that, as a result of this motion, was updated on June 14, 2016, precisely end from a discovery that you have mentioned: from the unfortunate discovery of the facts of sexual abuse to the Marists. And this led to an expansion of action to any form of abuse or violence against childhood and adolescence in the educational sphere, and not only with detection in the family sphere. It is worth saying, to say that they stop this act, this discovery of sexual abuse to the Marists, different investigators– Sànchez, Albalat and Ibáñez – they stretched the thread and, as you well know, they came to discover forty-three cases of pederasty precisely in private centers, mostly religious. I also want to remind you that on the 11th of September of 2015 a royal decree created the Central Registry of Sexual Offenders of the Ministry of Justice, at the disposal of the public administrations, and that it entered into force on the 1st of March of 2016, and that it obliges the issuing of the certificate of sexual offences to all those who want to work habitually with infants and adolescents. You, at the motius presentation of your proposal for a law, say, say to us: "However, and paradoxically, there is no clear and secure legal framework that facilitates and encourages the identification and detection of child abuse. And it is that, sometimes, teaching centers and their teaching and non-teaching staff feel unprotected and orphaned of tools. It is true, and it would be time – it would be time – that we know what the results are from the application of the protocol in force since June 2012, with the modification of June 2016. It would be good to know if it applies or does not apply, if it knows or does not know each of the choices, which are the results... And here, indisputably, there is a huge responsibility – and now I am addressing you, Counselor –, better said, all the responsibility of the Teaching Council, which is who has the mandate. Now, a deficiency, a mistake, doesn't justify another, because this legal mark exists. And here the paradox is that you present a proposal for law on something that already exists. We sincerely believe that the effort should be directed not at creating more regulation, more legislation, but at ensuring, demanding, encouraging that what exists is known, applied, and given the results. Counselor, here's a pending debt, and a very important pending action debt. Let's talk about protection, about threats to children and adolescents. We need to put the batteries down, we need to do the deployment. Every day, at the beginning of my intervention, I expressed my surprise, not so much for the fund, that I tried more or less to take it, but also for the form, huh? And I confess – I said, honourable Member – that I have had difficulty hearing certain articles, and not precisely because they are in the castle, that you know that the master perfectly, but for the use of a syntax many times impossible balances and a language that very often tempts and exhausts the meanings, huh? For example, article 2: "Special educational needs. Any form of priority and specific attention adapted in the field of education in favour of minors... – I will insist on this 'children'. You and I, too, know that the needy are not a form of attention. Attention is the answer to the need, but it is not the need itself; this is confusing the wound with Mercromina. There may be a need for specific attention that is not covered. One thing is the need and another is the answer to that need. O Article 3: "Debt of record. The Education Administration shall ensure that any educational institution in Catalonia, irrespective of its public or private ownership, adopts and implements a specific protocol for the detection, notification, prevention, action, etc.. Finally very well, however, the second point of the same article says: "In any case, this provision shall in no case entail the submission of an administrative authorization for the opening or maintenance of the office of the centre. Don't get along. What do you mean, that? Are we talking about measures to protect children and to intersperse an administrative authority of the education centre? It seems that whoever wrote this has much more concern because the center did not lose the opening authorization than because it exists and a protocol is completed. We could continue: 'To notify the educational institution in the event of flagrant indications. They are either ‘blank' or ‘signs' or ‘flanks' or ‘blanks', but they cannot be ‘blanks', can they not? "Right of indemnity: teaching and non-teaching staff of educational institutions who diligently and loyally comply with the duties laid down in Article 7 and have no responsibility in cases of ill-treatment of minors shall not suffer reprisals. In what cases is retaliation justified, right? Careful. Seguim : « Operation of the single register of indications and complaints: the single register will receive communications on indications or complaints, guaranteeing the anonymity of the communicant. A law cannot contain concepts that are not precise and that may lead to non-fulfilment of other laws. How is it possible to make an official register of ill-treatment and refer them to a person, and then these clues are not true and compromise the false criminality of the crime? If you were to make this record, it would have to be on certain, proven and corroborated facts. They may read as follows: "Article 14. The unique record of signs and complaints is a personal record that gravitates on the identity of the child or minors of whom there are indications or complaints concerning the ill-treatment of minors. Are we talking about having a register where you can find the identity of abused infants? A register of victims and not of botxins? What's this for? Doesn't this register seem like a re-victimization of these abused infants and teenagers? How did you feel about a bill that supposedly by urgent measures for the prevention and treatment of ill-treatment situations in the educational field dedicates new articles of your twenty-one articles to a single register of indexes and complaints with articles of dubious legality? That's not it. I believe that if you read in detail the Protocol of Action between the Departments of Work, Social Affairs and Families and Education, of prevention, detection, notification, referral and coordination of situations of child abuse and their intentions, you will surely see that everything you propose in this proposal of law is there collected. They will advise, do the work, deploy the protocol, this Protocol of detection, notification, derivation and coordination of mistreatment situations. We would get away with it, we would get away with this discussion, but above all we would have the most important thing, which is that our infants and our teenagers are feeling more protected, and so on, as Congresswoman Vílchez says. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , happier at classes and respect them as people. I want to end with a mention that I recommend, because I also learned it: « minor or « minor is not a social category, it is a substantial comparative adjective, and it is not correct, because it is used. I used it just a little while ago. "Less than what? Right? Upstairs? Is that important? Only when we refer to the complex situation can we use the lower accompanying text of the supplement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.137.0	I know it's hard, but it's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.138.0	... to name them "minor is to tempt against their dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.139.0	We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Vílchez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.140.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.141.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.142.0	Yeah. To tell Mrs. Lienas that, since she's making a private conversation public, that I explained it well, because I've told her that we've been through..., I've moved my wish that the pass has moved, but to start it from scratch was just putting it as an example of the hourly reform, that we're already starting from scratch, that she as well as putting, and I have also started a law of zero. And the rest, therefore, to tell them that this debate was the theme of the whole and that, for what I see and for what dismal they have done with the articles, they have had to work to justify the unjustifiable, that is that here no experts come to talk about school settlement and about the suffering of many children in Catalonia. Thank you. [[Some applause. Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.143.0	We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. The vote begins. As the whole speech was approved by 61 votes to 34, with 37 abstentions, the Proposition of the Law on Urgent Measures for the Prevention and Treatment of Child Abuse in the Education Area remains rejected. [[Question to the Government on the fight against the dark and precarious working environment]] [[300-00148/11]] The next item on the agenda is the question to the Government on the fight against hard work and job insecurity presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, I know I always tell them, but they'd have to leave in a hurry and be quiet so we can keep going. Mr. Pol Gibert, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.144.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Councillors, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, today 15 days ago the Socialist Parliamentary Group asked the Lower Councillor about the European foundations for the youth guarantee. As it was supposed, we were hoping for an answer on the management of funds by the government, but we got an analysis of the socio-economic context that young people see in our country, which is nice, but it wasn't what we were looking for. I suppose we'll have to wait after Holy Week to get the advice to the Labour Commission and get more concrete answers. But taking advantage of the fact that he did a very good analysis, counsel, we decided that it would be necessary to supplement it with the time given by the inquiry, that it is much broader than a question to the Government, and to be able to discuss with the Government the job situation of young people in this country. That's why my group today wants to put on the table the face B of the so-called economic recovery. The face We all know it: we get out of the crisis, the GDP increases, they stop..., all positive data from which we rejoice a lot and a lot. But behind these facts and the triumphalist speeches he is a fan of Madrid, but also from here, there is a hidden face B and it is not much advertised. And if we put the magnifying glass on which type of occupation is being created in our country, we could define it with the following words: seasonal, temporal, partial, short-lived and with a few very low. Almost every new contract that is signed in our country is of a temporary nature, and the proportion of temporary contracts with respect to fixed contracts is only increasing. The workers are forced to make partial papers, at least on paper, when they look and can make complete papers. We have problems of safety and health at work, in the face of the high precariousness of the labor market, which causes more accidents and more difficult. And once again we see how, in the law of the jungle that now governs labor relations, the last climb is always the same: the workers. Moreover, it should be noted that this Parliament has adopted measures to combat some of the effects and against pre-charitability, some of which are driven by our group and others, by other groups. But be who the promoter of the different initiates is, the result is the same or very similar: a constant failure on the part of the government. Yesterday we received the statement of rigor issued by the secretary general of the department, Mr.Ginesta, every time there are new figures on the Atur. It is already a tradition of the journalistic report to which we are accustomed as if they were mere observers of the labor relations of this country. You look at the bulls from the barrier, becoming experts in analyzing the situation when they should be experts in managing it. Besides, there was a complaint about the advice of the left-handedness that we patim, which they have done since this Faristol on many occasions. Where are the measures they proposed and approved? We're still looking for them. But if I don't remember badly the highest labor authority in this country is you, you'll advise. Apart from complaining and explaining how the situation is, he's in his grip doing something else, which is why they're the government, and not us. If we focus on the situation of young people in Catalonia, the drama is multiplied by two. To begin with, the rate is twice as high among young people as among the rest of the population. But if we still focus more and focus on young people working in a precarious way, whether part-time or temporary, we find ourselves with surprising facts. According to the latest figures from the Labour Force Survey, young people have a pre-charitable rate that is twice as high as the population's total; no more or less than 60_percent of contracts for children under thirty years of age are partial or temporary, and what is still harder, will advise: this figure did not reach 50_per_cent in 2011, one of the toughest years of the economic crisis. Counsel, if from 2011 we've been increasing precarious contracts, where is the recovery? If today we have 85,000 young people working less than 2011, where is the recovery? Does the phrase "young people month by month" sound to you, Counselor? This is what young people in our country suffer: contracts lasting less than thirty days, many times a few days, that look to chain to survive. Ours is not the generation of recovery, it's the generation of precariousness. Before this reality, what did you propose? What does your government propose? Today we explain to him the face B, as well as the good one, of the labor market, which does not get used to explaining but that it is the reality that they see thousands and thousands of young people every day in their own skin, that they see young people who are cameramen or who are doctors, making this situation a sign of generational identification. They and they are not used to listen to their policies about a supposed economic recovery and that we are better than 2011; surely they would be more useful if we talked about measures that change what they see day by day. And if we're talking about precariousness, I couldn't make this intervention without talking about a few companies that are moving a lot in this environment: multiserve businesses. Multiserve companies, also referred to as comprehensive service companies, are those that offer all the services that their customers ask for; they are companies that do not have a major activity as such, and we can see them in sectors as diverse as cleanness, security, maintenance, hospitality or transport among many others. These types of enterprises regulate the working conditions by means of appropriate agreements, with minimum working conditions and wages, avoiding the application of sectoral agreements. Multi-serve contracting is a cost reduction for companies, but at the cost of devaluing conditions and workers' salaries. In summary, the principle of equal work, equal pay, lived for years of union and political struggle, has been defended as a result of flexibility and lower wage costs. And all thanks to the kind of the People's Party with the invaluable help of Convergence and Union. He will advise, given the situation, he will understand that we are concerned about the sensitivities of a government presided over by Convergence in these labor issues. Let's point out that the Socialist Group at the Congress of Deputies has put forward a proposal to combat this discrimination and attack it from the ground up and reverse the effects that the expansion of multi-purpose enterprises is causing to many workers. I don't mean we're waiting for the support of the camra groups at the length of this process to pull it forward. In Catalonia there are no more than 32,000 workers and workers who are part of a multiserve company, 32,000, and among them I would like to highlight three collections, only three, even though they could be much more. First of all, the pee-cambers, who have passed through this Parliament on various occasions and who we have been able to feel alive as they have been precarious until never seen, devaluing their wages until half, painted on their own because of their work safety and exploitation to which they are submissive in many hotels, meaning doubt a symbol of the precariousness of the worst we have in our society. But there are also warehouse moves that cover a 45_per_cent less than they paid before everything and work more hours, or maintenance staff, who pass it the same and who lowers their amount between a 40_per_per_cent and increase their work hours; all of them under which they oscillate between six-cents and seven-cents_euros, when before they went to collect a thousand_euros. You obviously can't go on like this, Counselor. The unions say that, let's say some political forces. But before this fact I ask you, counsel: what has your government done to avoid the precariousness that permeates much of the labour market? Why has he not taken steps that this Parliament has proposed to him and that can contribute to a less unbalanced labour relationship between capital and work? I believe that the citizens and Parliament deserve to know what their government is doing to fight a precarious situation every day, and we hope that today will be the day when we can get an answer. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.145.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gibert. Next is the words of Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.146.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Member, for asking this question..., well, this question about the struggle against hard work and job insecurity, because it is a topic we share, and I think it is very much meant to do it today, very close to a U de Maig, that a lot of people come out on the street for this issue – not all we want, but a lot – at a time when a congress of one of the unions with more representation from Catalonia is coming to an end, and today we have been watching at home and in the cloister, because, as Mr Gallego very well said, we are winning the struggle, and he said: "Unfortunately the good macroeconomic data and the better of the occupation; so much so that I believe this topic. We have an increase in the precariousness that we are beginning to attack, said he, and that we will continue to attack. Therefore, some recognition of the work that is also being done is ugly yesterday at the beginning of the union of Workers' Commissions of Catalonia, to whom I would like to congratulate, for, I suppose, the way in which it will be carried and for the new ones that will come out. The data, you said it: one thing is the data... But we can't stop looking at them, because the descent of the data from the data from the twilight, which for twenty-three months as a result, each year, is lowering the data from the twilight, that's good news. Because the main concern in time, when I came out here myself, was the people who were out of work, out of work. Keep it up, and we won't let it go, but obviously the next step is that of precarization. There are two very important issues that we could eradicate, from precariousness. One, continue with GDP growth, by more than 2.5_per_cent; you know that all economic studies say that from a GDP greater than 2.5_per_cent increase causes economic growth, and this has to do with new occupations. But another important thing is that we can have the laws, that we can do the laws ourselves; you know that the market is already a reform of the labor market that has done a lot of damage, that now all the analyses are being done, and from the department we also do it, whose impact it has had on our..., in Catalonia itself, but that it is the main one that has brought us to this precariousness, to this flexibility that should not be. Therefore, macroeconomic growth is consolidated, consumption increases, the poor is moderate too – and in the late years we have an inquiry of poor women in which I will give the exact data we have from the department – there is an increase in social spending, which also has repercussions for palliative measures, with finalist resources, in order to be able to tackle above all those causes of the conflict. All sectors are growing; therefore, the numbers are correct, but next time there is industry, that this month, if we look at the data, it has increased by 5.2_per_cent, while in the other sectors the average is 3 and a half. Thus, domestic demand increases, exports also. But, of what we have been talking about now, we are very clear about the pathologies: temporality– you said – left-handedness– and so-called temporality, that it is not the same as partiality of contracts, but temporality – and, above all, inequalities. A new social class, precariousness, that we can analyze, we can analyze it among the norms that we have, that are not close to Catalonia, and we will not stop asking that we want to have competitions, not just what we have, that at these times they are active policies... Therefore, he wants to put shots to the wound, put Mercromina to the wounds and not be able to make a direct intervention; therefore, he cannot heal directly. And that's what we're complaining about. But in the meantime, and as long as we're working! And I can explain the government's action, as I've explained many times before. Who are the main mechanisms we have? Two: which way do we mark labor relations in agreement with employers and unions – is the only way forward – and the other, the instrument we have more closely, which is the Inspection of Treball, although we also share it. Therefore, you know that, of all the activities of the Labour Inspectorate, one part are of own demand here, but another comes directly planned from directives that are not our own, even though we can affect them. And here's where we can focus... I'll introduce you to the week you see... For the first time last year it was a press round and, therefore, the presentation and have transparency throughout the work of the Labour Inspectorate, which had never been done. We presented it on June 22, 2016, all the performance of 2015. This year we're presenting her for a while, so the week you're going to have the Labour Inspection report, because it was a compromise that we'd do it at the end of the first quarter. So, I'm already moving forward, so don't say it's from your question that we explain what the Labour Inspectorate does. But I'll give you the numbers I have at these times, because you see that's the way I can attack precariousness. And the two ways I gave are: to move forward in consensus and with concertation; to move forward in union and with employers, and with concertation in the territory. This way forward is what we're doing. I know that you have presented a motion that you have brought to all the meetings on the occupation strategy and the concertation in the territory, but I can announce the places where this concertation has already taken place. For example, we could talk about a place that is the most attuned, the region of the Lower Penedès, where this week we explain the active policies that are brought to the region, that have agreed with political strategy, with strategy of occupation, from all spheres, from the municipal to the union and employers, with all entities, where the assumption of these active policies increases by 35_per_cent. Therefore, we also focus more on those territories where they have more difficulty in creating employment, which we can fight with both numbers, in a quantitative way, as well as in a qualitative way, to improve the place of work. I've been explaining many times – maybe we haven't gone deep enough – which is the work we're doing. In active policies, which is where we have competitions – and I say again: we want them all and we only have them in active policies – what we've done is support all the collections, all the vulnerable collections. For the first time, too, there are not only active policies in all sectors, but also for all ages. He knows that we presented the 30 plus programme, an integral programme for people aged 30 and over who were unemployed and long-term, because it was our first priority, all those people who were unemployed. It's a program that's coming to an end, involving orientation and full route design with personal itineraries, training and execution of this same full route, and job placement. It has been done in conjunction with locals; therefore, it is a program that goes to the lowest profile of training, mixed with training, orientation and insertion, and that is already giving good results. Actually, it's for the year and a half; so until June of this year we can't present what results are. But what I can tell you is that it's already exhausted, that everyone has been asked about the assumption that we have and that we have to expand it. Therefore, this already indicates that there are good results. It also called the same for entities, a special program to include all those people who have difficulty inserting. So, I'm going to go into the young people, which is part of their questioning. But, moreover, with the oldest of forty-five years, with agreement also with trade unions and employers, we have done one thing that has never been done, too, and I come back to say: that the wages of all those active policies that enclose that it is possible to contract with a company or with an entity follow the minimum wage that we are claiming, a minimum wage that we are also claiming to be in the form of city wages, such as metropolitan salaries, of a thousand euros a month, which is what the European Social Charter recommends. A boost to the social economy; this also allows many people who are unoccupied to move forward, and in this case I can tell you that many young people. What we've put in the program of cooperative atelier networks... the vast majority of the impulse to this quality of work is young. And we've increased the amount of money invested in social economy, a lot. And here I can tell you that 81_percent of the contract is indefinite...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.147.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.148.0	...that out of the 3,940 cooperatives that are currently in existence, it completely changes the partiality that we speak to the principle. Therefore, no indefinite contracts and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.149.0	You've run out of time, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.150.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.151.0	I've got the word, the word, Mr. Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.152.0	Thank you, President. And, counsel, even if it takes time, you still have five more minutes to answer questions that you haven't answered yet. I'll go back and tell you why you're so pale. I think we're not in Parliament to explain everything that's good, everything that's wonderful, that we already know, say the press, with which we don't need to spend a lot of effort ourselves; I think we're in Parliament to solve what doesn't work in this country. Therefore, today I wanted to focus not so much on the past, that we also focus many times, but on the one that is not working and that we are not seeing many times, that is the precariousness of people working on the labour market today. More than a king, because it seems that the economic crisis is over and that what it sees is the people's continuous precariousness. Therefore, here we have to start focusing, because it will be a problem that we will not have this year or the coming, but we will have it very long. So let's start working on it. I would like to propose three measures, three ideas that I think the government could do and that I think it is not currently doing or is not doing enough. First, you were commenting on the issue of social dialogue. I believe that you, counsel, could sit in a employers' and trade unions' table, and also together safely, to begin to narrow down the areas in which the precariousness of workers applies and to prevent companies from entering into certain sectors that are pre-characterized. I think it's something you can do; it's social dialogue, it doesn't affect a law. So you could start working here. According to the subject that I wanted to take from him and that is a subject that we have discussed many times: the subject of inspection. You say it's a foundational pillar in counseling; I agree, and I think it has to be. But we've asked the inspector general many times whether or not more inspectors are needed, and they don't answer us, they don't tell us. I understand that it is, because if more is done for inspections, more resources are needed for this issue. In addition, the councillor has made some move to bring resources back from other administrations for inspection. So, I understand you do. I would ask you here, not that I invent re: that I apply what is already being done to other places. And I said it once a month ago and I'm going back to repeating it today: the one that goes to Balears. Balears has no competence in inspection issues, and in turn makes a very powerful inspection campaign, which above any tree of the island, and depending..., with a collaboration of the State, as is done in many other things. Therefore, here, counsel, you have room to do so. I mean, he doesn't go to the state to ask for help and to work on these issues, he doesn't go to the state. It's not for you or me, it's for the people who need it. And here if we have a lot of people, to compare with Balears, or a similar public object in the themes of the hostel, for example, or the construction, it could be done perfectly. There they got some results that are much better than the ones we have in Catalonia today, they converted much more contracts than the ones we convert here in a year. Therefore, let's try it, in one and a half months they did it. Here, Counselor, surely you can do it the same way. The third issue I wanted to comment on: social clauses; there has also been talk here some time, in this Parliament. Listen, through this system you could also try to narrow down the whole issue of pre-charitance. We've got the margin we've got. I also tell him that we are at the Congress of Deputies also working on these issues and we hope to find the support of the Republican Left to do so, obviously, as with the PDECAT and other parties, to do these issues. But let's try to do what we can do here. We can do more things, we're not doing it; we have more margin and we're not using it. So, counsel, before we go to ask for more things, we try to use what we have here. And, last but not least – and I hope that you will also answer me in the five minutes that remain of your answer – I repeat this: if a young man listens to us talk to you and to me right now, he will get out of here without knowing what we are doing to avoid his precariousness. And that's intolerable, because we talk about it here many times that there are parliamentary debates, and people get out of here without knowing what we're doing for them. Therefore, counsel, I pray you, that in the five minutes that I have explained to you what the government is doing and what it will do to avoid the precarization of young people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.153.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gibert. Then there's the word "adviser."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.154.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Gibert, for putting precisely the focus to which I wanted to explain, which is the part that I have left. First of all, I suppose you know there's the Labour Relations Council. In this Council of Labour Relations there are five working groups: collective bargaining, security, labour contract and market. And that's exactly where, together with social and economic agents, we're doing what we're asking for; but not what he's asking us now, but he's doing long enough this year that we're doing: a report on precariousness. Therefore, thanks for the idea, but we are already bringing it to term; I could look at it, which I would know. So, thank you very much. The job inspection, and I like it said, that we work with the State. Forcefully. We don't have any skills in the whole job inspection, and you know it; we have a consortium that is working together with the state inspection and the Catalan inspection. What's the problem? That the contracting of our inspectors cannot be done from here, that it must be done by the State; otherwise, there should not be twice as many as there are. Because what we have made clear is that the job inspection has to do two things: follow up on businesses and new businesses, so that they know exactly what the law is, and that's what we're doing, but, for another band, carry with this follow-up what doesn't rule sanctions. Miri, three clear examples of what we have managed with human resources from the inspection. The structure and all subcontracting chains of different companies are being analysed. One of them, Telefónica's subcontracts. This same year, the existence of an illegal stoppage in the first line of sub-contracts, with five companies and with false self-governments, of Telefónica sub-contracts, with a fine, with a final penalty, of EUR 3.5_million, for social security. You know what that means? Convert precarious workers to fixed workers. He never went against these companies, and it's one of the campaign, all year round, work inspection. Second: the working cooperatives associated with the carnia industry, another problem, which were clear of precariousness. The performance throughout the year 2016_has brought, concentrated especially in Girona and Barcelona..., we have focused on the unworthy working conditions, because it must be said, of false autonomies. We have twenty-four investigations completed already, to get out what it was, and a hundred and nine other workers today, of these workers who were as false to the cooperatives, and that so... And he also brought that since Parliament we can change the Law of Cooperatives, because there was a point that the job inspection could not act any more because it was a legislative issue. Third, third campaign, multiserve businesses. All these campaigns have agreed with economic and social agents in the Labour Relations Council. That's how they work. So, it's not that I know what we're doing that doesn't mean we're not. Multi-serve loans, precisely, in inn and in pee chambers. During the second quarter of 2016– and they will continue all 2017, because the agreement was 2016 and 2017–, thirty-four direct releases have ended with twenty-six infractions, with acts, twelve of these for illegal termination of workers, of more than seven workers in each of these assignments. Fourth campaign, illegal, non-sectoral – because these were sectoral – close by: 137,000 orders of movement; therefore, 209 infringements, I can say now, in minutes; 49_per_cent, I can also say, in the transport sector, a sector that had not entered for a long time. And another topic, the control of working time, another of the problems that there is in the precarization; the work did not declare, that here, obviously, with the inspection of the State. I can tell you that twice as many contracts, which had not been detected in the past year, of fraudulent contracts, have become fixed contracts, so fixed workers, with decent conditions. Control of temporary contracts, non-caused temporary contracts; correct. The week I'll give you the report for all of 2016, I guess the one in 2015 is tea, and you'll see that everything you've proposed to me is working; we're working with consensus and concertation. And at this very moment I'm here – and that's why I couldn't be – I can tell you that right now a collaboration agreement is being signed to push forward the new comprehensive model of active policies that we're doing across the country in the same city of Barcelona with the Barcelona Assembly, right now, right now. Therefore, concertation, consensus, dialogue with all the agents involved, and going to work worthy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.155.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.156.0	...that's what we want...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.157.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.158.0	...with the mechanisms we have until we remain independent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.159.0	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.160.0	It's part of the session. [[Report of the Syndic of Greuges to the corresponding Parliament in 2016]] [[360-00020/11]] Very late in the day, all of them. The fourth point of the order of the day is: presentation of the report of the Synod of Greuges to the Parliament corresponding to the year 2016. Before starting this point, allow me to greet in the name of the chamber the syndic of heavyweights, Mr. Rafael Ribó, and the members of your team who are accompanying us today in this plenary session, and also other syndics that I see here now in these moments in the room. In accordance with Article 178.3 of the Rules of Procedure, the trade union shall make the presentation of the general summary of the annual report. Therefore, has the word Mr. Rafael Ribó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.161.0	President, ladies and gentlemen, one more year is at their disposal to be discussed in the plenary on the annual general report for 2016. This report was released to Parliament on February 1, 2017, has already been discussed in the board of the syndic and today is presented for its discussion in plenary. You know that in this report, as established by the syndic's law, we set up all the activities that took place as syndic during the previous year. There are all the statistics, we report the most significant actions, not all of them, and there are all and every one of the syndic's escapees that have not been accepted, and there are also some examples of resolutions that have been completed. And, lastly, the institutional and dissemination activities that have taken place since the institution. I would like to draw your attention to a fact that for us there is a demand, and it is because of your responsibility we also make three more reports each year: the rights of children in agreement with the Geneva Convention; the Report of the Catalan Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture; and the last report they have commissioned from us, the Annual Report on Transparency and Access to Information. The demand: why don't we see them in the House of Commons? It would be good and good, it would give more category and more projection to which you yourself have entrusted the institution of the syndic that these also end up being discussed in the plenary of the Parliament. We believe that all three themes are very important for dealing with them specifically: the rights of children, it is also all that affects..., where there are people in Catalonia deprived of freedom and it is, and it will have to be every time more, transparency and access to information. We are aware that we have made a report that goes on a political period with many factors that can influence some of the reports we make to the report. 2016 was the renewal of the Government of the Generality, the Presidency of the Government; 2016 is a year marked by two electoral counts at the state level, and above all it is a year where this phenomenon grew which, surely erroneously, we call "populism", but if we look at it from the perspective of the radicalization of xenophobic and exotic positions appears for many rights in Europe. And don't think we're vaccinated against similar phenomena. And I'm telling you this with the authority to have presided over yesterday and before yesterday in this House a finding of the highest human rights authorities in Europe – the Commissioner of Human Rights of the Council of Europe, the Director of the European Union's Fundamental Rights Agency, the President of the European Union's Human Rights Institutions and the vast majority of defenders of the various European democracies, from the United Kingdom to Poland, from Scandinavia to Greece – where we're looking at the effects of democratic regression that mean to many societies that generate absurdity and facilitate operations of restrictions on rights and, therefore, democracy. We, a year more, since 2009, and I want to emphasize that with major parliaments of different colors in this chamber, we warn you that the first issue that comes up to the syndic in the form of a complaint is the social issue. Since 2009 it has ceased to be where we easily call "bureaucratic". The social package takes up a third of the complaints that come to the syndic, and which could be summed up in a single word, "vulnerable..., of the various, and sometimes contradictory, collections that are in a situation of vulnerability, a word that should encourage us all to make much more efforts to deal with the causes of this vulnerability. Recurring issues such as the application of the Law of Personal Autonomy, known more commonly as the Law of Dependence, both in its assessment and in its management and its financing; recurring issues as it can be saved, from the situation of emergency services, that, as the deputies and deputies of the syndic's committee know, we have announced that in a short space of time they will have a monogram of the syndic's report after having resorted to the vast majority of emergency services of our country, as the recurring theme of the waiting lists, in which from a year ago we work with the department in mechanisms more agile than before, as is direct assistance in its solution. And I can't be saying today that I pay attention to dealing lightly with information about the health system that is in Catalonia, public, that can have many defects and that we have to overcome them, but that they continue to feel of a high level of quality. And I say this with the serenity of having been in charge of an act of office on something that today is being mediated again, because there was no reason for that scandal to occur, nor in the sense of the dead, that it occurred, nor in the sense of the responsibilities that were being blamed for mismanagement in those cases. And I can assure you, as the Members and Members who discussed our report know, that it was analysed with the utmost detail. We have resolved, in 2016, the number of complaints around the timely theme of the euro per receipt. In 2016, unfortunately, there is still a year on which the issue of the future has been presented, and sometimes with very strange features, such as that of the Czech Republic when it sees us complaining, quite rightly, that the Government of the State has diverted funds from the quota of formation that they pay religiously entrepreneurs and workers in order to finance other objectives that are not formation, that would allow us to improve the social and economic system. In this social area we also refer to the right to housing, and especially the right to housing in an emergency situation. I will repeat to you as many times as I can: the emergence in the habitation does not admit waiting list, or does not admit pensions or solutions..., to see how we spend the days. The authentic emerges in the housing demand immediate solutions. And I can also say with pride that every time there are more administrations, also local ones, that create their instruments to solve what the demand for housing in an emergency situation means. However, it would be useful to continue to pay attention to this issue and to expand, if possible, as much as possible, as many of the public services allow us to focus more on the logger, on an alternative policy to which the demand in this country has flooded massively. Here's a huge scandal: today's 80_million euros is required from young people in Catalonia who have earned the basic income of emancipation to help them in the logger. Mitjans that go from 3,000 to 4,000 euros of return; cases that go from the most anecdotal, that pass 1,75_euros of the limit and ask for 1,560_euros, to cases that are to more than 5,000_euros, for a fatal and poor administration when it was decided at the call of the Ministry of Development a type of help for emancipation that is based on the calculations of the year in action, and for so much of a self-increase of the income that could carry quietly, how hard it was, to overcome the same limit, radically controlling to the minimal rationality of managing public funds. We've asked the generality to take the lead. It 'nsha answered in an absolutely neutral way, but the syndic cannot admit. It is said that they share our longing; it is said that it still sees an initial misdesign of the program, that it is accounted for, for example, the entries of the current year in accounts to count the entries of the previous year; it is said that various actions have been taken to minimize the issue, that they have met with the Ministry of Development but have not managed to modify it and that they will try to do actions to minimize it. So, I from this rostrum the announcement that I intend to convene the Catalan Agency of Habitatage, which I intend to convene the representatives of Foment in Catalonia, which I intend to convene the same delegation of the Government, as we have done other times, with very positive responses, to stay - there in the background, to see if we can find a solution to the issue. It is also a year in which a constitutional appeal is made on aspects of Law 24/15 that were a great step forward in the European landscape, a law that sees them all as a popular legislative initiative, a law in which no one can seek the merit of seeing who points to it, but which solves problems, which approaches the second opportunity that exists in the German Republic or the French Republic, which, therefore, brings us forward. Why do we have to go to the Constitutional to get back to the right when they are instruments for real and concrete problems that exist? It is in this same package that it is necessary to continue to stop in the basic sub-administrations. You're all right, and you say "United Nations" to the basic sub-administrations. There's got to be some graons to treat them. Obviously, it is very different the consumer in excess, that if he wants to do so, but paying the corresponding penalty, from access for everyone to basic administration, to the issue of energy poverty, to other types of sub-administration. A big _second away from the 2016 report, which is new to the second theme, the second pack of complaints, is all that goes around sustainability, mobility, being able to live in the territory. They refer to the example of social sectors and social movements that go ahead of all of us, as is the people who are being moved from Dignified Trains, or from – I say as they say – not getting us on the Train, or other units that are struggling to achieve something as simple as daily the transport system works. And already I can advance them that we have already met with Adif Catalunya, with Renfe, with the council, with a very positive meeting, and I want to highlight that Adif and Renfe Catalunya, complete with all the things that were asked from the syndic..., and we hope that the month of September, which is as we have remained in place, we can find pragmatic solutions in so many things that would be to eat a good part of my time if I have been entertained. But it's a real and hard problem that affects thousands of people's drawings. Surely, in this part of the world, the most innovative affects the environment, the complaints that come from us, already from the moments to the right to the rest... We all have right to the rest, and it is not good for the administrations to fail. We don't need to be told we're already acting, and when the basic chance passes that the lack of right to rest generates, then we start to set things straight. From here the monogram reports, like the last, about coexistence and oci. But especially the complaints that have been raised, – we pointed out on the 15th, but on the 16th have multiplied – about attacks on the territories. It looks like it's coming back, and I say it with irony, the culture of stone. Money in a bank account at mig percent; at the stone, 25_per_cent. Didn't we understand that the territory is unique? That the one who remains, not only for us, but for our children or nets, rests with us? Is it necessary to make a macroport in Tossa, with 460 moorings, with a luxury hotel, with perforated tunnels? Is it necessary to build Pals in natural reserve areas? Do we need to go ahead in this kind of operation? Isn't it a whole government and all the parliamentarians' job to sail through this territory? And again, when the syndic can give them examples of where are the expressions that democratically and courageously, sometimes under pressure, are presented to the syndic in the form of a complaint? And in this area, still, of everything that affects mobility, as we have proposed to the Territorial Councillor, we should put up with the most ways to allow the participation of the sectors involved in any decision that affects the planning of the territory and urbanism. We know from the syndic perfectly well that it is respectful of all the distances from the laws, but sometimes these distances establish mechanisms and periods that are missing information and are missing, above all, connection where there can be more concern and more connection with that same problem. And a further departure from the report is devoted to all aspects of Administration, transparency and the right that establishes the Status, as set out in the European Treaties, the right to good administration. We discussed these days at the workshop, the seminar that we held in Barcelona, how human rights go to Europe or not, and how there are rights about administration that are manifestly human rights. The right to good administration is a basic human right. The right to attend from the government the people is a basic human right. And it was pioneering the Statute, as the European Treaties have said. In the first year of force of the Law of Access to Information and the Law of Transparency, which was the year before, the day with strength: the vast majority of the Catalan society does not know that it has a new right of access to information, that all public events must be accessible to everyone, and the European code says that half of the efforts should be directed at informing, training, disseminating this right, and we are not doing so. It doesn't bother people to ask, it shouldn't bother people to want to know about each of the public decisions, about which they are all in one sense or another, and we lack an important effort to spread, to educate and to form in the right of access to information and, therefore, also in transparency. We have to say that in the first year they probably also noticed that it was a mistake the legal holiday did not exist. All the democracies with which they want to compare, when they legislated on transparency, they gave a minimum of two years of adaptation to the law, and here we wanted it on the Sunday. And what happened, the morning? That we get requests from the syndic begging that you inform us that you are asking us, man, that you keep it in mind. And we're going to take this into account, because it's impossible that in moments it's possible to get into the whole set of predictions that the same law of transparency has. In this aspect of administration, they will find references to the continuing difficulties in everything that the sanctioning and the lack of protection that people have before the sanctioning or receptive environment, and it deserves special attention to what we refer to as freedom and democratic quality when we refer to some state-level laws that affect the democratic freedoms of Catalonia, or any right of the Spanish State, which basically affect freedom of expression as a right, the most fundamental, "pampered for European conventions, or all that is the application of these same European treatises to these rights. I want to call them the attention, for example, in this democratic area, of such an elementary right that it goes around the law of historical memory. Catalonia is the area of the state most advanced in the compliment of the history memory law, much, but we have not yet completed everything with the history memory law. And the syndic in his day positively valued what was put in the way of a genetic identification program of remains. Still up to the syndic who asks us: "I don't know where my relative was killed, I don't know where he was buried. And I'm talking about 2017 and, therefore, we positively value everything you've been in this direction. But what does it cost to complete with what the law of historical memory says to make all the symbolism of the previous dictatorship disappear? And they're not worth more or less fun expressions than some local car, when they've been asked to remove the franchise plates, huh? Nor is it worth keeping certain monuments under the subterfuge of popular consultations, when they fit fully into the cataleg of what the law of historical memory means. A further departure from the realm of freedom on which I would like to put up with is the burden you have placed on us on the compliment of the Law of equal rights with all European law in the case of LGBTBI people, or the Law of 17/2015, effective equality of women and men, in all that the syndic must also work with the same Administration. And a later recommendation on these issues is what is the Catalan mechanism for preventing torture. The syndic for acting on everything that's reacting before you complain. And the syndic like the mechanism acts on everything that's cheese prevention. In this distance we will go back to insisting as many times as anyone else, and I say this especially to the members of the government present in two questions: completing the Istanbul Protocol. Mr. Counselor of the Interior, completing with the Istanbul Protocol. Don't apologize. It's a model to move forward on everyone's rights, and a syndic tells him that the surprise is that when we start talking about the Istanbul Protocol no one in Spain and no one in Catalonia knows how to apply the Istanbul Protocol. Well, it's been a long time. Now we have to say that, for example, with the Health Department we have managed to train forensics and all professionals to complete the Istanbul Protocol. We've got the assignment of public law enforcement, police units. Comply with the Istanbul Protocol. Or, more easily, we are in compliance with Article 520 rather than the European standards of an authentic right to defence. Let's pass on to the defenders all the information about a fact of a detainee, except in the cases that are planned for him, as it may be terrorism, and in the preventions. But out of this, let's pass all the information. What's the point of making all the defense information available to the lawyers, who are the first to be asked of them? And we're not looking for a line or a few squares as if it were a test test, when it's such an important fact where the last ratio of democracy is applied, which is the Criminal Code, and we need to make it easier for them to be defended in these cases. Therefore, two explicit precs that I would like to be able to rectify to the proper report said: "We have already reached the Istanbul Protocol and we have reached the full right to defence. We have to say, as far as this telegraphic presentation on the report goes – and I am not talking about explaining them all the more than twelve monographic reports, apart from the annual reports we have presented – that we have already found a good predisposition for all the administrations and businesses in Catalonia to collaborate with the syndicate. The degree of collaboration and willingness of administrations and businesses, all those that serve general interest over which we also extend the skills to collaborate with the syndicate, increased. Of the thousand complaints and demands that we are going to process the year 2016, we can say that we have a few small index of no collaboration, it is a 0.6_per_cent. So it's a good indicator. We have been reduced by days of resolution of the issues; we are still taking too many days to resolve the issues, and the syndic does not tell them how to complain about you, no, I tell them in the name of those who suffer from the problem and, if we extend the days, the solution of their problems widens. Let's narrow it down, let's narrow it down, and see if we can get this vague collaboration to grow in the resolution that until now, between total acceptance– 86_per_cent, grow – and partial, we exceed 99_per_cent of the cases where the syndic, institution, appreciates that there may have been a right injury. I can tell you that we've done some better in this sense, such as its electronics, which has been working on the syndicate for a long time and which, therefore, is available to all citizens as an easier and faster instrument to connect with what we're doing. We have all the services of the IT syndic and, therefore, all the services of the syndic with a quick connection to the other administrations, but now also with the people who can follow directly from their computers all the history of their complaint and in what way they find and how we can solve it. We are trying to improve all those services that allow, by land, sea and air, all hours of the day, to have access to people to raise their consultations or their problems. We have multiplied by four the outputs of the service of assistance to people over the territory, opening – called "carryingly" – botiga per barrels and cities of Catalonia. We've expanded the arrangements together. We want to intensify our relationship with local syndics where they exist, with university students, with private entrepreneurs, and create an authentic network of rights in Catalonia, because people can quickly and easily know where to press buttons to find solutions to their problems. They will also find to the report an inquiry of satisfaction or not satisfaction about the services that have been rejected by the syndic. If I may, summarize it in two words: greater attention, please, to equality in its social dimension. I have not talked to them, for example, about issues such as childhood and adolescents, education, and what we have told them about 2016: the principle of equal opportunities for education is not consolidated in Catalonia, and while there are no differences that are unacceptable. And the second: it counts on our people and our territories. I'll tell you, in the words of a great singer, dead a while ago, America, Pete Seeger: "One blue sky above us/ One ocean lapping all our shore/ One earth so green and round/ Who could ask for more/ And because I love you/ I'll give it one more try/ To show my rainbow race. I'd love for Catalonia to be really rainbow breed. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.162.0	Thank you very much, Mr Ribó. Next, to fix his position, has the word Ms. Carmen de Rivera, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.163.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members of Parliament, people from the Greuges Syndic of Catalonia who accompany us, first of all, thank you for the presentation of this report by the Greuges Syndic, for the year 2016, which together with the other reports presented represent a street radiography of the problems that affect the citizens of Catalonia in their relationship with the Administration and in relation to companies that provide public service, such as supplies. Secondly, the syndic reports that there has been an increase in these complaints, which on the one hand mean a greater degree of knowledge of this institution, but at the same time mean that it has been many citizens who report violations of their rights. Also noteworthy is the decrease in the time to resolve complaints and the effectiveness of these recommendations made by the syndic, which is nothing more or less than..., all these recommendations that the syndic has addressed to the administrations have solved the problem that the syndic has transferred and above all those recommendations that the syndic makes when addressing the administration. As in the 2015 financial year, one-third of the complaints are also linked to the social sphere, and by their number is the first problem of the people who come to the syndic. This report shows that many families have been caught up in the economic gap, which is growing every day and forcing them to seek more and more help from the Administration, whether it be medical services, social services, health services or assistance in accessing housing. This report, in this social area, is the subject of the Law on dependency and late payments; homeless people; waiting lists; return of the euro by prescription; the saturation of medical emergencies, of which we expect a specific report that has announced the syndic; unemployment and diversion of finalist funds for training; the right to..., the right to housing, of which the report quite rightly says that it cannot be managed as a waiting list, and the problems that many young people suffer from the demand for return because they have sometimes exceeded the maximum amounts expected to be creditors of the income of emancipation. It informs the Board that there are problems with the application of the Dependency Act and specifically of late payment, particularly this year in the amount of amounts relating to the retroactive effects of unrecognized benefits, such as that of a non-professional caregiver, and, more importantly, bad administrative practices that generate defencelessness to citizens because sometimes the schedule for payment of outstanding arrears and payments is not recognized in a resolution, or, having passed the period of payment by the Administration, the Administration not only fails to do so with these payments, but also often puts new written deadlines in a resolution. This, as we are well aware and also indicated by the syndic, produces defencelessness in the administered one by preventing and hindering the exercise of their rights. To this end, our parliamentary group has taken the initiative to present a motion for a resolution on this issue of backward delays which corrects what is denounced in this report. On the other hand, and in order to improve precisely in transparency, we have introduced in this Parliament a law of urgent measures to improve attention to the unit that will help to improve in due course and the quality in which services are provided to these most vulnerable people. However, and with regard to the many problems with the Dependency Act, des de Ciutadans we advocate a state pact for the system of personal autonomy and attention to dependency where solutions are sought and let us all put our best efforts to ensure that the entire dependency system actually works as it should. I want to say that it highlights for its gravity what the syndic has informed about the situation of the unit of disorders of the Institute of Food Disorders of Argentona, where thanks to the Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture, the Catalan Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture, there have been found practices more than dubious of punishments and restraints, as well as a defective treatment in relation to the young people detained there, as well as a very poor state of the facilities. We are extremely concerned that in the children and the sick of whom the Administration is concerned it is, at least apparently, where human rights violations occur, with, at least indicatively, the tacit acquiescence of the Administration. Because we have observed that the syndic is addressing the Administration asking for explanations in this case and in others, and for the Administration everything is correct, everything is perfectly..., it has a perfectly correct explanation, and we believe it is not. It also draws attention this year to complaints about the treatment given to people who have to go to be evaluated about their inability to work at the Institut Català d'Avaluacions Médiques, Catalonia. We see that it is a problem that persists over time and is still evidenced by the complaints that are presented in the syndicate. As it could not be otherwise, the syndic highlights the saturation in the medical emergencies of public hospitals, a problem exacerbated last December 2016 in the hospitals of Vall d'Hebron and the Hospital del Mar. It is clear that, in the area of health and the saturation of emergencies, the planning of the Department of Salut has failed; lack of accessibility to diagnostic tests, we are aware of cases that reach the seven months of waiting, although the Department of Salut indicates that the average is ninety_days. Nor does it have the vision of solving this year 2017 in view of the approved budgets. And if governing is prioritizing it is clear that health is not a priority of the Junts' government for Yes. The priority is not the health of Catalans, but to allocate time and money to the process and to repeat the 9-N while patients are expected to be visited in an emergency corridor. The Government now has a golden opportunity to allocate these items to the referendum and annulled by the Constitutional Court..., at least one part, to allocate them to social services. We have been drawn to the attention in the syndic's report to complaints from homeless people, who have more than doubled in number. We look forward to your report on this. At the request of Citizens, a motion for a resolution has been adopted to help social and labour reintegration through the provision of telephones and access to the Internet for this group of people. We turn to the second issue in importance for the citizens according to the syndic's complaints: the railway infrastructure and, very specifically, the problems with the Rodalies trains. In this..., our parliamentary group has put forward an initiative so that people with functional diversity can travel by train on an equal footing. With this initiative we want to improve accessibility and provide users with the information of adapted train schedules and enable these people to travel independently and without needing assistance. With regard to territory and consumption and the right to housing, in addition to a lack of preventive action and lack of coordination of social services and housing services, and beyond the suspension of Law 24/2015 by the Constitutional Court, we believe that victimism should not be addressed and we are convinced that it is possible to adopt legislative and administrative measures in this area. From Citizens, we have reported on several occasions that Law 18/2007 on the right to housing has been misused, and that there are many other legal tools in force and not annulled by the Constitutional Court. And, above all, the problem of access to housing will not be solved if the Administration, at all its levels, does not make a strong commitment to public housing policies, affordable rent, so that they have a positive effect and try to guarantee constitutional law such as that of access to housing. And, with regard to the section on transparency and good administration, we have found in this report of the syndic a catalogue of bad administrative practices for which the syndic proposes measures to approach the transparent and democratic institution that must be the administration. This report describes bad practices in the sanctioning field, which affect the right of defence, and abuse in the allegation of the presumption of certainty of the authority; bad practices in collection proceedings, which injure the rights of those who are administered when they are not allowed to pay in voluntary phase dues if those who are in executive collection are not settled, forgetting the right of the administered to charge payments to those debts designated by the taxable person, including all those bad practices that we thought were long forgotten, such as the claim of debts affected by limitation that the Administration has an obligation to withdraw from the executive phase or from the execution that is carried out by the administered person. It also reports the syndic on the situation of justice. There is nothing more to be seen than complaints and, of course, we cannot agree more on the considerations that are made in this report on the right of citizens to an agile handling of matters affecting them. It is not a two-year mark of a trial of incapacity for work, but, unfortunately, it is our daily bread, and with many other judgments that citizens have, very important, and on which their immediate future depends. And, with regard to universities, we welcome with interest and will study a parliamentary initiative to assess the real needs so that the university scholarship system is sufficient to cover with flexibility university fees, as proposed in this section on universities, which actually have the most expensive fees for all of Spain, the most expensive university fees for all of Spain. And since we are talking about universities, we would like to ask you, syndic, from here, from this rostrum, to be interested in what is unfortunately becoming a custom in the Autonomous and other universities, which is the violent persecution of ideas personifying in the aggressions and persecution of students of the Catalan Civil Society in the face of the passivity of the practice of the entire university community, starting with the Rector of the Autonomous. [[Some applause.]] Finally, I would not like to end this intervention without thanking you for the report and the resolution issued on the harassment and injury of fundamental rights to two minors and their families by the Gaspar School in Portolà, Balaguer, to which we referred last year since this Faristol on the occasion of the presentation of the 2015 report. I regret, lastly – and since I have only one minute left – that Councillor Jané has left, because this parliamentary group has urged and seen how it was voted against the resolution that was urged to be handed over and placed in the hands of lawyers, defenders of detainees, the police attestation in order to guarantee the right of defence; resolution, motion for a resolution that has been again urged, given the..., well, a ruling of the Constitutional Court has just been published declaring null and void a procedure for not having delivered that attestation. I would have liked Councilman Jané to be there to warn you that this group has introduced you again and will be re-discussed in the Interior. Nothing more, and thank you once again for this report, which helps us to work with all the groups and all the parliamentarians in this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.164.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. De Rivera. The words "Mrs. Marta Moreta", of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.165.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies and deputies, syndicates and all the team that accompany you, and other syndics present today in this chamber. The democratic regression is an evidence, and I have to tell you that the papers that were made the day before and on Sunday in his... here in Parliament were very sharp to contrast what I am explaining. What I did find missing, syndicate, is the presence of many Members of this House. I'd like to thank the syndic for his explanation of the report, which we had the opportunity to listen to at the syndic's committee not so many days ago. The syndic's report gives an extensive view of the different areas of government and is an open microphone for the citizenry and alerts us to continue working. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we insist on the need to place at the centre of the political agenda and institutions the promotion and defence of the social rights of citizens and citizens, in order to achieve a more inclusive society. The syndic's report is a good tool to contrast from his findings throughout the report. In our view, it makes it clear that it is necessary to combat the inequalities that are being generated and the need to create conditions for a more equal growth from an administration to the service of the citizenry, effective and respectful with its rights. So, syndicate, we are talking about a valuable report, which allows us to know and deepen many aspects of our society. This annual report must be accompanied by the three reports which are presented by you in this Parliament and which, in coherence, are complementary to what is presented today. I am speaking, as you have already commented, of the Report on Childhood and Education, the Report on the Catalan Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture, and the Annual Report on the Follow-up to the Transparency Law, access to public information and good governance. So, without further delay, I would like to focus on some concrete aspects of this report. The protection of social rights is one of the most extensive areas of the report, and in fact it is not strange, as many families continue to find themselves in vulnerable situations and this ends up having a direct impact on social services, health, public education or access to housing, as the report already indicates. I would particularly like to highlight the delays in the payments of dependency benefits. We find ourselves in a grotesque situation, where the Administration of the Generality does not even communicate to the user this fact, and therefore this is a clear..., it is a... - sorry, eh? "It's a flagrant case," I said, "forgive me, I'd been stuck here, I'd have to explain it loudly, and I'd have to report it." Because the Administration is slow on dependency benefits, it's very difficult, but don't inform users is indignant. The social policy area represents one-third of the total report and has risen in line with the 2015 report. Specifically, people without home have increased more than twice, and that's all worrying. And, therefore, it's very helpful what you just announced a moment ago about housing issues. In this context, syndicate, I would like to ask you if you have data on the situation of the youngest people, if they are expelled for mortgage or logger payments, where they reside, if they are foreigners with residence permits. These data do not appear in the report, and, in fact, I already asked in my intervention that he had a place in the board of trustees. The health complaints are repeated, and above all the saturation of the emergency services and the management of the waiting lists, while the lists, in their report, already communicate that they have downloaded. On the subject of work, I think it is interesting to highlight the complaint made by Cecot with regard to the inappropriate use of the share of professional training of social security provided by the enterprises, 0.6, and the workers, 0.1_per_cent, quotas which have a finalist character linked to the formation of the workers and therefore cannot be allocated to other active policies of occupation or protection by unemployment. I will continue to talk about university taxes, which are the highest in the entire state. The syndic recognizes the efforts of the Government of the Generality with the equity scholarships to compensate for the restrictions of the scholarships convened. The syndic recommends to the Administration that I assess the actual needs so that the scholarship system is sufficient. In fact, syndic, it was not necessary to wait for the syndic's report to explain loudly that we have the highest university taxes in the whole State and that we should immediately settle them. I would like to know whether they have any answer to this issue of the Ombudsman and the Administration, respect these scholarships. As for transparency, the syndic recognizes the efforts of administrations in active advertising; it recognizes that it is a complex law to apply and that smaller administrations have a less effective compliment. This law carries more expenditure for the Administration, and most small joints have difficulties to adapt quickly. Actually, that's what your report says. And as for the government and the government department, they should put means and resources in the local world. And, related to this topic, I'd like to know if the syndic has determined some cases of right-wing abuse in those smaller municipalities where you clearly see an increase in complaints. It is clear from the data that, as the municipality is smaller in number of inhabitants, there are more complaints and, consequently, more difficult to manage. Did you plan to do a study on these data so that you could make some suggestions? They're asking for it, too. Perhaps it would be good to compare – and I'm saying this as an idea – mayors and you would work to explain to us with whom helplessness is found before the systemic use of some citizens who make use of this right. And by the end of the day, I wouldn't want to stop talking about freedom and democratic equality. The Law 17/2015, of effective equality of women and men, in its article 25, « Communication media and information and communication technologies, in its point c, says: « To guarantee an active participation of women, the equal presence of women and men, and a plural image of both sexes in all spheres, with special attention to the space of knowledge and generation of opinion. And now Catalan media systematically silences the opinion of women. And I want from here today to claim to apply the law; and it's not the first time I claim it. And that, Members and Members, does not say a mere member of the Socialist Party: they say the two last reports of On Are the Dones, where it is clearly specified that women are underrepresented of opinion in the Catalan media. We want to demand that the law be applied. In fact, syndic, it has already opened an act of offices relating to the presumed failure of the principle of equal presence of women and men to the Board of Governors of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. And we can't shut up, we have to say it loud and clear, because it's not only not complete the law, but in some cases, like the written press, the data show a very serious situation, because the average of women's opinion articles the last two months is at the top 20_per_cent. And, without leaving the issue of equality, I would like to recall the two laws for equal rights that attach to the syndic a central role for his supervision. It is, as I said, about the Law of Women and Men; however, it is also about Law 11/2014, to guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersexual people, and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia, and, as I have already commented and said, the Law of effective equality of men and women. In the march of the first, the LGTBI, to hear us, we are in the current since the agreement has been signed with the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families, and, therefore, here we will no longer ask you anything else. But for what he does next, the Law of Equality of Women and Men, the precept is being negotiated with the Catalan Institute of Women; this is what he explained to us in the syndic's commission not for many days. Do you know why this is expected? I'm just saying this because the law said that, at the end of the six-month period the law would have entered into force, it would have signed this agreement with the syndicate. In fact, these six months have already passed a year and two months, and for the time being we have not signed this agreement. And, therefore, from here we complain that it is set up and that it is finally signified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.166.0	Thank you, Mrs. Moreta. Next is the words of Mr. Albano Fachin, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.167.0	Thank you, President. Syndic and team, thank you for this picture of the patience and injustice that society has seen, that it has seen every day. A suffering and injustice that many times does not just cross the walls of Parliament, that many times does not form part of the media and political agenda, and that many times, when they do form part of it, we see a lot of people talking about steroids. And these reports that the syndic makes us often help and force us to talk about this injustice and to talk about this suffering with a little more rigour. This report is valuable material. There are also the three preceptive reports that deal with the rights of children, the Mechanism of Prevention of Torture, on the Law of Transparency. The concrete reports that have often been the result of a quick reaction on the part of the syndic in specific questions that softened or formed part of the concerns of society; from electric guns to private security, child abuse..., is to say, in many moments where we have seen that the syndic, as a social actor, we can say, reacts before situations and difficult problems that concern our society. That's why we give him thanks, and not simply as a matter of parliamentary courtesy, just because he helps us work, and not just helps us, he forces us to do it. It is true, the syndic must do and act and react before concrete cases arrive from the city, which every time makes this tool more useful, but we, on the basis of these concrete cases, must work the questions of foundations. These concrete cases are not natural phenomena, but they happen because there are structural problems that correspond to us solving or, in theory, giving legislative response from Parliament. We can't do an extension of this report or of all the others. Nor do I, because I imagine that all the members of the government have read it in their entirety. I'll do what we have to do in these minutes is focus, maybe randomly, but in things that may not have been talked about or maybe talked about more. It is true that we in the committee have dealt with each of the issues and each of the reports in a specific way. Here he comes to put it, let's say, wide, report, right? The fact of speaking in a plethora about the report, which is a demand from the syndic and his team to give him the import he has to this job. And I start with a given, which is the data that the syndic put us on top of the table in the first term, this third of complaints, this thick of complaints that they have to see with the protection of social rights. This doesn't happen because yes or because people have come to it, this happens because in this society years ago they have been violating rights for decisions taken in parliaments like this. This inability to respond so many times to the demand for rights is not because yes, it is not a natural phenomenon, but rather responds to things that are decided in parliaments like this. So now we're all reading the report, and it would just be missing, we're all worried about inequalities, but inequalities come from a lot of places, also from parliaments like this. Complaint 02588/2016: "A family of Badalona with five younger children and scarce economic resources raised the situation of need before the imminent loss of habitual habitat as a result of a judicial procedure of denunciation in which the date of launch had already been designated. I'm literally reading the report. This was a case that came to this Ple, we talked about, came the family. And the syndic says to us: "There is a lack of preventive actions. Of course, when we see a family and their five children on the street, something has failed. And many have failed, surely. The syndic talks about the decoordination, the decoordination of the services. Functionally, the coordination of the services, because getting to the point where you and your five children are a few hours away from being sent directly to the street is not a side event, it is a fact that also responds to a whole series of decisions that are taken in parliaments. Because not being able to have a home is enough to see, I understand, with the difficulty that hundreds of thousands of people in our country have to have a decent and well-paid job, there is a lot to see. And the impossibility of having a decent and well-paid job something must be seen with a labor reform like the People's Party did. It's not worth the trouble. And when we talk about the coordination needed to defend scandalous situations like this, we talk about coordinating and advising and studying how we can get to situations like this. It's not a problem of a Badalona family, it's a problem of this society, and it's a problem of these parliaments that are not up to the top of the societies, because if you're up, that's what happened to Badalona and that unfortunately happens to a lot of places, that wouldn't have happened. It's been a while, at the door of Parliament, today, there was the PAH. And the PAH denounced one thing that the trustee also denounced to his report: the action of the Constitutional Court in relation to the suspension of some articles of the Law 24/2015. Much has been said about this law, a lot has been said about it, a lot has been said about it, about what has been suspected and what has not been suspected, a lot has been said about how some government can be stored in a suspension in order not to apply something else that is not suspected, but, to be sure, to say it, the shame of the Constitutional Court, which would have to defend – and that is what the members of the PAH say – that they would have to defend the constitutional rights of the citizenry, so, in the accounts of this, we find the opposite. Many read what the Constitutional Court does. No more than what PDECAT did two weeks ago at the Congress of Deputies, where he went to present a proposal to agile the denunciations by apologizing to this idea of the Okupes; a proposal that did not distinguish between the great and the small. A newspaper explained how this had been done with the PDECAT proposal, and said that the proposal had been approved by a new parliamentary majority. Because this was approved between the PDECAT, the People's Party and Citizens. Not so unusual, we've seen it here a number of times. But, well... Complaint 03747/2016: a person addressed the syndic because he filed the request for the return of the euro tax by receiving the year 2014 and still has no news. In 2012, here in this Parliament, a law of fiscal measures, Convergence to the capdamunt, said it would pay one euro per receipt. The citizenry has mobilized. This Parliament legislated for one side and the citizenry was mobilized. And I remember, at that time, the flames entering the pharmacies, which were deplete for public salvation. Angels said yes with the head. She was not a deputy, but she was depressed for public salvation, going to the pharmacies to say: "This is intolerable, and proving that the struggle for rights is not measured by the amount of motions and motions for resolutions she is a fan. It is measured by the compromise, by the compromise that we should all demonstrate that we are here. The Constitutional Court annulled the euro by receipt, but it did not return the euro by receipt. This came out of Parliament. Before we talk about women, about the LGTBI, I won't go in because I don't have time, but I mean all these inequalities – all these inequalities – that we're talking about, they also have a gene pool. When we talk about the ature, when we talk about the lists of hope, when we talk about salvation, when we talk about denunciations, always – always – we are also talking about genera. I'm sick of it. A complaint has been filed in respect of the inadequate use of the social security vocational training quota. The Government of the State was devolved to the vocational training quota until the year 2015. I don't know if now, when the People's Party spokesman comes out, he explains to us that the government is going astray. It sounds hard. Specific reports: report on irregular trade in the public street, a necessary report on a subject which, if not well dealt with, can be open camp for populism and for xenophobia and fascism. There are questions about this report that we could discuss, but let us congratulate the intention, the willingness to say that it is not worth carrying against the weaker trunk when we talk about keeping, that it is usually carrying xenophobia, racism and fascism. The report on private security, which is not widely known, has been a report that has gone unnoticed. There are security providers who are not approved, professional without sufficient training. Can you imagine that we say this in the field of salvation, that there are companies that are not approved or that have gone without sufficient training? So, on a subject as sensitive as security is happening. Quin perill – quin perill. In eighty-eighth-year-old England, Thatcher's England, this led to a profound debate, they told him the silent revolution. In the 19th century, security stabilization led to a lot of debate, a lot of legislative and political changes; today we see as security privatization, as if it were a more service, no debate or legislative changes. We haven't seen much, from the syndic's reports, we won't be able to talk to them and comment on them all now. The report on school segregation, which had an important media impact; the report on sexual abuse, the report on children, a report on the contamination caused by purins... Assenyalen, all these reports, work paths for the deputies and deputies of this Parliament. Since our parliamentary group we have tried and will continue to try to respond to the challenges posed by the syndicate and its reports; we have worked on the Istanbul Protocol, we have worked on the subject of segregation, we have made proposals for resolutions, motions, we have worked on committees and we reaffirm the commitment to continue this work; that I have not been buried, this report, which must be the guide of our work. But I'd like to end up doing a reflection or proposal or maybe asking the syndic who's his opinion. The syndic, both in committee and here, says: "We value this work, let's look at it, let's look at it in the plenary. And it's a good place to give it "brightness, to give it visibility, but I ask myself: these reports so important, imagine, every time a report comes out, that TV3 makes a one-hour special telling us what these reports say? Maybe this new president of TV3 gives us a surprise and we make a special program every time a report comes out, because I'm telling you: there are more people watching TV3 than watching these plenums, and TV3 is everyone's. Can you imagine that every time a report comes out, the diaries add a CD, just like we do with The Marathon, add a free CD with the report, and everyone knows what it says in these reports? Because as we've seen so many times... Syndic, seek allies outside this Parliament, seek allies between society, which, if you know a quarter of what it is about in these reports, is still more mobile and would force us even more to be on the rise of this than fire and this important work for which we, from our group, are very grateful. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.168.0	Thank you, Mr. Fachin. The words of Mr. Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.169.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the syndicate and team that accompanies you today go ahead with our thanks for the effort to condensate for the large number of actions and areas in which the union intervenes. But I'll get to the point. Some considerations on ex officio actions: the case of the elderly deceased in Reus, who is in the process, and the necessary involvement and coordination of the Generalitat, social services of the city council and the supplying companies, beyond the charge of guilt. It is not a matter of looking for culprits, but of preventing these facts from happening again at all costs. In fact, there are pending appearances in the Committee on Enterprise and Knowledge to clarify, to the extent possible, what has happened. And, therefore, we will be awaiting the outcome. Another point that has drawn our attention to ex officio actions in the Report of the Syndic of Exercise 2016, the literal demonization of politicians: the case of the photograph of Xavier García Albiol to be burned during the celebration of the night of San Anastasio in Badalona. It is very clear that sowing hatred will bring only misfortunes; it is probably even more far-reaching. We also know that it is being processed. But, with regard to precisely this issue and in view of the unfortunate or, I would say, the violent events that have occurred with the harassment and the assault on the headquarters of the PP by the CUP, whose members are present here, we again call for an explicit condemnation of the CUP – the CUP –, which is explicit, so it is a clear act of violence. And that's incompatible with democracy, there's no justification possible; they've been left alone, barely weighing them down. And those who behave like that have no legitimacy for any kind of political claim. With regard to the Law on Urgent Measures to Address Housing Emergency and Energy Poverty, as stated in the report, the use of unconstitutionality does not in any way affect everything related to energy poverty and indeed to evictions. There has been no recourse – and this is good for citizens to know – to any of the articles dealing with energy poverty. The Generalitat – and this is also important for citizens to know, and so it was privately recognized, as the Generalitat often holds high office – was aware of its lack of manifest and palmarian competence in relation to anti-discharge legislation. And yet he decided to push the norm, in an exercise of demagogy and improper populism of an institution of government. Beyond the indispensable performance of social services to care for those at risk of residential exclusion, it is necessary – and in what way! – a greater boost from the competent department and local administrations in promoting social housing in Catalonia. As a past demonstration of this inaction, the inapplicability of the 80_per_cent of the fund against energy poverty in 2015, by the Generalitat, shows that the administrations do not turn into a problem that, beyond the legislation that develops, needs implication, political will. In this sense, we will not only criticize the Generalitat Administration, we will also criticize the Barcelona City Council, because we have been aware of the existence of a surplus of more than 94_million_de_euros; and, despite that, Mrs Colau has not promoted corrective measures in favour of social housing. Therefore, beyond the grandiose words, I insist: the facts, which is what, after all, people really matter and affect. On the other hand, the moratorium on the granting of hotel licences is a clear example of this erratic policy; because, as has been seen – and it is a fact, therefore, empirically observed – it shifts demand to tourist rental apartments and this creates serious problems of neighbourly coexistence. Therefore, gentlemen, sensitivity yes, but demagogy no; because with the fundamental rights of people we cannot market by a handful of votes. In any case – it has also been said and is noted – the law passed by Parliament against evictions was supported by our group. It is also appropriate that we do not cause a boomeran effect, because without the protection of property rights, banks – and it is already happening – will refuse to grant mortgages, especially to those people who need it most, and therefore de facto, will be prevented from accessing the property. What the Generalitat has to do is really help vulnerable people by exercising their abundant skills and stop looking for conflicts with the Government of Spain. I hope that one day they will get tired of constantly causing conflict. It is perverse and unworthy to use people's suffering as an alibi for the independence process. You have done, gentlemen of the Generalitat and a political group that gives you support, very little – you have done very little – to fight against inequality and in favour of the disadvantaged. The Decree, without going further, 6/2013 to fight energy poverty only reached eight hundred families in its first year. And then, the fund to which I referred earlier, against poverty, planned for 2015 was only applied in 20_per_cent. To this end, an illuminating fact: from this fund to which I referred 3,700 families benefited; however, the City of Barcelona served 4,000, and that of L'Hospitalet to 1,500, which shows that there is a lack of information and a lack of facilitating the procedures for accessing the aid scheme. On the contrary, on the other side of the coin, the budgets – and this is news from yesterday – presented by the Government of Spain for this current year reveal an increase of 2,3_per_cent in sanitary items and 4,9_per_cent in social services; within this item, in particular for dependency, which rises by 8,2_per_cent, or for gender-based violence. These are budgets presented by the Government of Spain yesterday, with support in addition to Citizens. Therefore, demagogic housing does not solve anything, but harms everyone, especially those who pay their mortgages and rents with difficulty. Let us remember – and this is good for the public to know – that preventing evictions in a consistent way implies the immediate rise in rental prices, and mortgages are also being increased because neither the owners will rent nor the banks will grant them. But beyond, as I said earlier, the laws passed, the Generalitat has multiple tools to combat the drama of evictions. And they go from the disposal of their empty homes, which they have; through the approval of extraordinary rescue funds, which can do so; using the contingency fund provided for in the budgets; signing agreements with banking entities; building social housing; even conducting a census of housing that fails to fulfil its social function. Does it not seem to you to be an interesting toolbox for using tools rather than demagogicizing, as I said earlier, with the legislation passed by Parliament, and that then, for eminently legal and jurisdictional reasons, the Spanish Government has the right to resort to them? That is the game of democracy! Vice President, that is the rule of law game, which is what you forget – which is what you forget. Rail services. Ensuring the quality of service is an unspeakable obligation on the part of all the administrations involved. Therefore, the joint search for durable solutions also seems to me to be commendable. In this direction I refer again to a fact known yesterday: general state budgets. Of the 374_million_euros budgeted for nearness, for rolling stock, for the whole of Spain for this year 2017, Catalonia will be allocated 271_millions; that is, 72_percent of the total. I repeat: the Government of Spain will allocate to improve the proximity in Catalonia a 72_per_cent of the amount destined for the whole of Spain. Anyone who wants to discuss the figure, who wants little less than to disregard the figure, is in his right, but has no credibility, because obviously the numbers sing for themselves. I share – and this is also said in the syndic's report – the need to compensate the injured when delays occur because they are basic and essential services for the citizens. We must therefore persevere in the investment effort by the central and autonomous administration, and above all in the coordination between the two. We do not agree, however syndicate, with the categorical conclusion that the transfer of competition can make it work more efficiently. This is not proven at all and it does not seem right to us to attribute to the service operator a lack of involvement in the resolution of the incidents. It doesn't fit the truth, Mr. Syndic. Moreover, in his report – and I think I reminded him in committee – there is an assertion that, I think, I would say that inoperative and even tendentious: it is said that the operating company does not have the mentality to be working for the Generalitat of Catalonia. Well, that's getting into an eminently subjective terrain. It seems to me loaded with a crushing subjectivity, and therefore I recommend prudence. Because even in the report itself, Mr.Sindic, you, on September 20, 2016, tweeted: "The Ministry of Development, Adif and Renfe violate the law of the people of Catalonia. Man, Mr. Syndic, I think it's a little off, huh? I sincerely find it unwise – and I say this to you with due seriousness, which you always impose in your interventions – that an institution like yours can publish a tweet of that nature, which, if it is not incendiary, seems to you very much. Therefore, I insist: I recommend a little caution in these matters primarily because of the role it plays. In sanity. Here it has been said: "The operation of the emergency service and the management of waiting lists is clearly improveable. Therefore, I will be cautious too, Mr. Syndic. But, beyond the fact that you see on the ground that perhaps the thing is not so bad, what the Generalitat has to do is allocate its abundant financial resources money to health, to end waiting lists and to improve the emergency service. In the field of universities, we share, as it cannot be otherwise, the concern about the excessive cost of university fees; not only, and I have also said this in committee, the highest in Spain, one of the highest in Europe. And this causes the lack of access or continuity in the academic training of our young people. The university community shouts out... – because it is already something that seems, well, that has also settled in the environment, but the Generalitat by one ear comes in and by another comes out, doesn't it? –, the university community cries out for urgent action that does not arrive. And it has been found that the policy of equity scholarships is insufficient. In the matter of language: we welcome the instruction of the syndic so that the Diputación de Lérida also guarantees the availability of the Province's Official Gazette, in Spanish, and we ask him to ensure its compliance. We encourage you, Mr Syndic, to be belligerent with all or against all, rather, discrimination on the grounds of language, especially in the educational field. And fundamentally, Mr. syndic, as far as the Castilian is concerned, because there are people who demand protection and the syndic does not respond as these people deserve. We therefore call upon you also to act on your own initiative with a view to protecting these fundamental rights. On the subject of democratic quality: we also had a heated debate in committee. The report of the Venice Commission validates the reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court of 2015 and recommends to give due effect to the decisions of the courts, in particular by all the administrations – and I add – « above all Government of the Generalitat and Parliament of Catalonia as regards the decisions issued by the Constitutional Court. It's binding, it's rule of law purely speaking. And, therefore, not to take that indication, which is the fundamental conclusion of the report, is a weak favour, as I say, for democracy in its broadest sense. Not only the one we have of low quality lately in Catalonia, but the one we have in the rest of Spain that in the world no civilized country discusses. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Therefore – I am finishing – I ask you, Mr Syndic, that the implication that you have just reported in your speech be real, effective and also operational in all areas. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.170.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. The words "Mrs. Mireia Vehí", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.171.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Santamaría, on the day that we are banning the right to self-determination, let us hope, for the democratic salvation of this country, that people will bring us ballots before yours of our party. That said, thanks to the whole syndic's team, for the work they've done with this report, and recognition, as it couldn't be in any other way, in the pocket of this institution. The first photograph that gives us the report, has been said several times, is a social key photograph, and is that more than 30_percent of the complaints that arise there are from social policies. The syndic has explained it with detail; I am not there..., I will refer only to some of these points. Dependence and social services: a very strong demand in relation to the lack of collection in the matter of dependency law and the need to replicate care policies for survival. In matters of salvation, emergencies, col·lapse and waiting lists. In terms of universities, according to the syndic's report we have the highest university taxes in the State and some of the highest in Europe. In fact, there was a sentence from the syndic's report that I wanted to replicate here in his parliamentary office, because he called me a lot of attention; he said: "Some students depend on solid initiatives from around the university to continue paying. This is difficult and denotes a situation of lack of access to public higher education that is a conflict of first order. And in terms of housing, there is a lack of access to housing on the part of the most vulnerable families, and it is obvious, said MP Carles Riera in the board of the syndic when they also addressed this report, the clear contradiction to the Spanish State between the right of housing and the market of housing, which is obviously a contradiction: a fundamental right in a totally commercialized_marc is clearly contradicted. And then the challenge of the Law 24/2015 by the Constitutional Court, the challenge of a law that sees an ILP, a popular legislative initiative, and that the Constitutional Court challenges. Santamaría, it's not just one of them, whether or not the Generalitat has tools, which is a subject linked to sovereignty and which we do not stop claiming: it goes to the service of who these tools are. And in the Spanish State there are 6_million empty houses waiting for the cycle of speculation to start again, while in 2016 there were sixty_ thousand denunciations. It is clear that the 24/2015 challenge is from a class perspective, it is obvious that the Constitutional Court legislates for a few. And here we also have to refer to the motion that was presented here the other day, in its parliament, the PSC, or the proposal that presented to the Congress the PDECAT, which also intended to agile the denunciations of families that were in a situation of default. Clearly, the criminalization of the occupation, the criminalization of families who, due to lack of resources, seek alternative access to housing, is clearly a criminalization that has not been felt, because when the Administration cannot cope with a social emergency, people organize themselves and access the rights as they can. I recommend an article that came out today at a time when the Directa is said, which is said, "Don't worry, you can go on a quiet holiday and address this debate precisely. What about this analysis of social policies provided by the syndic's report? We note that we have a country that has been cut short by the crisis, that we see something that we have denounced a great deal of times in our Parliament and that we also see another thing: that when the market puts its hand in the matter of fundamental rights, these rights disappear and enter into that vicious cycle of capital against life. When we enter the field of consumption – I will refer to three of the parties that put the syndic's report – we can draw a conclusion that seems: the syndic talks about funeral services and recommends that VAT be lowered. We understand that we need to go further. Funeral services are essential services for the population, and they are usually a logical source of very few cases, there are few businesses in our home that are dedicated to funeral services, and above all very high, and for families with few resources there are few opportunities for exemption from payment. We, in conjunction with Girona, for example, are bringing to an end a campaign of municipalization of funeral services, because we understand that you are a service provider and that, therefore, you must be managed from a public logic that ensures universal access to everyone. That's what happens with complaints about electrical, gas and water companies. We have noted that the relative complaints have decreased..., in the 2016 report, relative to 2015, but they are maintained as an important element that contributes the report. In the case of water in Catalonia, for example, we..., ACA data : of the fifty municipalities where the sub-administration of water is cheaper, forty-eight are directly managed, with a price of a medium of seventy-five cents of euro. For another band, of the fifty municipalities where the administration is more because, forty-four are of indirect management, I mean by private enterprises, with a medium price of one euro with fourteen cents. It's obvious that she managed it privately. She cares about the sub-administrations. Therefore, as is also the case, we, from the CUP, have long been due to a water municipalization campaign, because we understand that it would be a positive measure in relation to ensuring universal access without going through and that it would also be a guarantee to prevent the size of sub-administrations of families that are in a situation of social emergence. We can talk about water, gas or electricity; we understand that this would be a solution that would be useful for these three services. And we can also talk about complaints about rail transport. The Deputy Sergi Saladié expressed it perfectly in a nice way to the Committee of Territories, and said the classic ja, as the popular phrase, "explain. And it's that we also think that railway companies would end up with a lot of problems if they were public ownership. Therefore, all or many of the elements in relation to complaints or consumer office actions that reverse the syndic's report and that are linked to phone-related rights..., we understand that access to these consumer elements would be much better or solved if it is done from a public logic that guarantees common interest, that it would be a matter of containing corruptiles and other mismanagements, and that would therefore guarantee public, universal and quality service. We..., our mayors have a project coming to fruition that is unfolding, and it is the project of sobrieties, and it is precisely based on this: in public ownership and democratic participation of the citizenry in the management of these services. If we go to territorial politics, we could do a similar analysis. You have put on the table a summary of complaints and requests relating to the territory. Deputy Carles Riera said that when you presented this same report to the board of trustees. Deputy Carles Riera spoke of "touristic extractivism, and I would like to quote again here, in his parliamentary office, because it seems to us that it is important, the tourist extractivism linked to the cycle of speculation and the real estate candy at our house. Other times the conflict between capital and life, in which capital is gained for the moment and in which the Administration has the obligation and, moreover, we have the need to demand that it be placed over life and, therefore, that it be the citizenry that decides what to do with the territory and that ceases to be the extractive industries, such as tourism, that decide them. We can't help but do the whole human rights violation party, one of the assignments pending in Catalonia, at our home. In the first place, we would like to thank the task of the Greuges Union, of the Catalan Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture, in terms of guaranteeing human rights. We can quote the report on Taser guns, we can quote the report on special closed regimes, the DERTs, and other reports that have served us in the parliamentary exercise to work on the guarantee of human rights. You mentioned the Istanbul Protocol, a protocol of Istanbul which, even though you put on a date similar to, say, the requirement on the table, in Catalonia the entities of human rights carry since 2006 demanding that it apply, this Istanbul Protocol. And you directly questioned the Interior Council for the need to apply the Istanbul Protocol to the body and security forces. We want to put on the table a case that we have already brought several times to the plenary of the Parliament but which seems to us to be paradigmatic, which is what was called the Garganté case, which is a CUP director who demanded that a person who complained that he had been assaulted by a local police officer in the municipality of Barcelona should be visited alone, without the police presence, for a doctor; that this was not only not possible, but it cost our governor a lawsuit to the courts. On violation of human rights, above all this distance, we disagree with how you, as the syndic's work team focuses on the conflict or complexity of the phenomenon of the « top blanket. You have a lot of emphasis on punitive optics, don't you? : you talk about the whole criminal area, you talk about the occupation of the public street, you talk about the lack of payment of taxes and VAT. We understand that this is not the way, that we have not just shared this focus, that we understand that it is a highly complex phenomenon but that we would have preferred some other type of focus. Before changing the subject, we here, in the House of Parliament, in a motion on security items, proposed a mechanism of vigilance and guarantee of human rights that could be attached to the union of Greuges and to the Catalan Mechanism for the Prevention of Torture, in relation to violations of human rights that are perpetrated by security items. It wasn't possible. We put it back on the table, because we understand that it would form part of these essential guarantees in our home respecting human rights. Two more fears and I'm done. On historical memory, totally in agreement with what the syndic proposed; in fact, highlighting the need for a commission of truth in our home, seems to us to be an essential proposal. And to say in his parliamentary office something that is obvious and that we already know that everyone knows but it is important to emphasize: we are already removing all those Franco plaques in cases where the Administration is not doing it. And about transparency, before I finish, a little element, and a little element..., today I will quote the Direct; I already know it hard only to quote a communication medium, but it is that they have heard today another news linked to the Law of Transparency, and it was news that pointed directly to the lack of transparency of the Interior Council. Therefore, we take this concrete example to give a little..., or highlight one of the reflections made by the syndicate, which was the need for the Administration to apply this new law of transparency more closely, because it is a fundamental value of the society in which we live. And, finally, to gather one of the arguments that we have said and that in this very House we will make a move in this sense, which is: it is essential that we reflect that, in that guarantee of the right and the common good, the public ownership of the services and resources is essential to guarantee universal access to them, and also to fight against the dynamics of mismanagement and corruption. And finally, Mr. Santamaría was talking about the Venice Commission and said that the Venice Commission's latest report is very much about the completion of the Constitutional Court's judgements, and that the Venice Commission is starting from a constitutional court logic of European tradition, and that would not be exactly the Constitutional Court's logic that we have in the Spanish State. Why am I saying that? Because at the political moment in which we are, of clear violation of democratic rights, of clear opposition to the right to self-determination of the people of Catalonia with an obviously democratic basis; the day when three of the parties of the assumptions have been annulled because they refer, according to the Constitutional Court, to the right or to the self-determination reference; at the moment when the prosecutor said, of the Constitutional Court, says openly that it will continue to promote the Catalan process, because it does not seem democratic, it is an extremely difficult time, it is a time when we think that an institution like the Greuges union should take part in this matter. The Constitutional Court, at the hands of the Government of the Spanish State, is periling the democratic rights of the people of Catalonia, and, therefore, we consider that an institution such as the union of hardships, linked and hidden from the hand of the guarantee of the human and democratic rights of the people, must, in a doubtful sense, take cards on the assumption. And from here, I would like you to work, syndicate, to make an official report on what the Constitutional Court is assuming in terms of democratic rights in Catalan politics today. No more, thank him again for the task you and your team are doing and make him and continue to move him to guarantee the democratic rights and freedoms of this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.172.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. The words of Mr. Antoni Balasch, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.173.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, syndic, the syndic's team, other syndics accompanying us, deputies and deputies, first of all, allow me to thank the intervention, because, in the end, all that we have is a common objective, an objective that means putting the focus on the misadjustments of political activity, of the public activity of the Administration, on the part of the government basically, and, therefore, from here, trying to correct, redirect, optimize and, therefore, work for an efficiency that in the end gives us little to be able to serve the city, that is the will of all the delegates. So, I'm going to do an analysis, I'm going to try to get it from a global view, beyond some little comment you make from some comments that have been made by some of the groups, that it's going to be an aseptic view, it's going to be neutral, it's going to be real and it's going to be – let me say an educated term – a formative assessment for building from the misadjustments that there is, with feedback from the city, that we think it's the function of this one that we all have to fold, right? And, therefore, defuge critical exacerbation and also valuing the correction elements we can have and what are the ones we need to find so that serving society is as good as possible. From now on, we want to put this corrective will on the table, this constructive will, so that we can influence political formation – which we want to do – and also influence the government, if we want to improve, as we say, in service, in the performance of rights, in agility and transparency. The 2016 report, just like..., similar to the 2015 report, regressed the actions initiated and the proceedings. I move that we, like Junts for the Yes, focus on the beginnings, because in the proceedings we have not started in 2015, and, therefore, on which it is the object of analysis, which is 2016, we focus on the actions begun in 2016, which we believe are the response of the citizenry to the implementation of 2016. Therefore, said this, in this report the two thousand complaints have been exceeded; say the report exactly: "The two thousand complaints have been exceeded. By the way, if we look at it in 2015 there were 10,647 complaints, and now, in 2016, there are 10,013, a 6_per_cent menus; a percentage not very large, but on the line of decrease. Therefore, it is a good, positive line in this context. And I also take into account, and I will refer to ending it, that a complaint does not mean to be right; the complaint is an action that a citizen does, that may be correct or not. Therefore, this is a distorting element, if I may be allowed the word, to regulate it, and I will comment more in the final part. It is also true that, apart from there were fewer complaints, there were fewer queries and the queries have dropped by 18.5_per_cent. And, therefore, from our point of view there are two factors: one, a clearer administration and with a better functioning, and, on the other hand, also, and yet much less – and it has been commented here – a better knowledge on the part of the citizenry, which means that we all have to work and we have to do it to give more and better information so that the Administration is better known and, therefore, more transparent. So, so far: fewer complaints, fewer consultations. Yes, it is true that there has been an increase – and here we must also put a little more emphasis on it – in the number of official activities that the Greuges Syndicate has had to incur; from 205 to 281, a remarkable increase, a 27_per_cent. But when you look for and, apart from statistics, recollections, there is no increase in significance; basically what I have learned to find in the most remarkable way is the greatest increase that it does in family relations problems, that there have been more and more cases, centered in the field of family relations; therefore, I almost suppose half of the total increase. Therefore, this is a point of reference in which we need to put an emphasis. By volume of complaints, it has been said, the first has been the social chapter, after territorial sustainability, after consumption, and the last the bureaucracy, which is used to being the first and has passed to the last. This means that the Administration has won in agility. And, if he won, he means they've done things or changed the laws to make them more agile. Or, as now, as now, the Government's 2016-2017 Regulatory Simplification Plan can continue to work together, on this line we want to speed up. On the part of the People's Party it has been commented here that there is an inapplicability of the euros in the poor energy of 2015. Allow me two things. We predict assumptions, or we predict assumptions, like Juntes for the Yes, or they were, extended, and we made a law to act in respect of the poor energy. But you stopped us at the Constitutional Court and don't let us apply it. That's the summary there is. Therefore, this is the reflection that all folds have to do with us; I understand that. Then he spoke..., it was commented that there is 271_million euros for Rodalies de Catalunya, which accounts for 72_percent of the total of Spain. First thing, the presupposition approved... the presupposition is not approved yet, it has to be approved. Secondly, if it is approved as it is, it is necessary to see what is being done; it is not the first year that is 10_percent of what is supposed to be done. Third thing, Rajoy, in one week, there were 30 of the millions left that the previous one promised; therefore, we go badly. And then one last thought that is: it's not how much money they bring to Catalonia, but as far as Catalonia is concerned. This is the other great reflection. I would also like to make a general reflection in the sense... that to contextualize, that to promote economic activity, to promote it, is also social work, because to promote it means to enter more taxes, to give more work, that also means to give more help. Therefore, let us not lose sight of the fact that economic activity is also a powerful activity for social services in the city. It has been commented here, also on behalf of the Ciutadans Group, that the Administration always says and answers the syndic that everything is correct. It's not true – it's not true. If not, the syndic would not congratulate the Administration as it does and consists of the report for collaboration and for the better; if there are better, it is done. So it's not true. It has also been said by the Ciutadans Group that salvation is not Junts' priority for the Yes. It is; if not, the syndic could not have congratulated, the other day in committee and here today, the high level of quality. And then I'll refer to it with data, huh? I'll talk to you about data. After Espanya's highest university fees, it was said here. I'll talk to you later. Let's not confound the fee with the student's payer. I'll talk to you later, and with a very powerful report you've done from college. So let's not confound him, because, if we don't, we're wrong. Finally, the euro rate per reception, requested in 2012, was also discussed by a citizen, who has no news of it. And what I'd like to say is that it's a hugely complex process, this one from the back. Why? Because it's a hugely guaranteed process, which makes it so many bank incidents, so many difficulties in verifying the rights of legal representatives, so many. And then, apart from that, then, it creates a lot of problems at the level of locating the person, correcting mistakes. So, is this a case, this person? The question I'm asking. And, therefore, they also know that the entire information system is being updated – very soon it will be completed – which will allow you to resolve in two_months already these complaints. For what he does in the social area – I see that I'm starting to go a long way; it's the big block of complaints – to say that there are six corresponding areas: education and research – within this block of social packages–, childhood and adolescence, greetings, social services, work and pensions and discrimination. They've downloaded all but one. She dropped her complaints in childhood and teens by 22_per_cent. A 20.5_per_cent of complaints has been downloaded into social services. Work and pensions have dropped a 26.5_per_cent of the complaints. And it's kept the same salvation; bid a 1_per_cent. It increases, with few numbers but in very high percentages, discrimination, for a very clear reason: the LGTBI law and the Law of genera were not there; therefore, the first complaints have been made in this camp, which make this not meaningful. And it is true that in the field of education and research it has increased considerably in percentage. In this sense, however, there are 484 complaints focused on education and research, which suppose this increase. Say two things. From one band, by registration of centers; we are not talking about the educational service at the level of educational quality, as a result – by registration of centers. The complaints you have – you know this – for complaints because the corresponding person poses an address to the pre-registration that is not the right, very much, okay? A lot of them. Either with reference to the brother in the center, or with reference to chronic diseases. I have to say that there has been a very remarkable correction in this sense – there is the councillor here before – with an agreement with the mixed committee to correct all these issues – correct, and not only that, but also to work to correct a distribution that is truly balanced in all the centers, and that is in agreement with the municipal world. And another attempt has also been made, which is an attempt to make a social pact to combat school segregation, with a table that we have been very many people, I will not be there, but with a very clear will. Is it work? And as long as he's working on it. And the facts are here. And then, too, college students, who have increased, in part, cause you to distort a little bit of this education block and research, but, look, I used to say before: let's not mess up the fee with what they pay. The fee is what it is, but in any case, there is a fee that allows the social ascent. There are many young people who do not pay; there are many young people who do not pay or pay very little, very little, a 25_per_cent less than another autonomous community like Madrid. Why? So why is there a guarantee system because it pays more than you have. Social pricing. And then there's a topall of 25_percent of the total cost of the square, but more than that, there's the equity scholarships. Certainly – in the opinion – if the Spanish State gives the scholarships it has full competences – applied for fourteen years for the Constitutional Court – we could solve it by a stroke. This time to the Constitutional the Government of the State does not believe and does not happen; in change, according to who it is who does not believe, here they do punish him, but in any case it is what we have. And I'll talk about one thing. There is a study prepared for Mr. José García Montalvo, professor of economics at Pompeu Fabra University, commissioned by the Interuniversity Council of Catalonia, which says that the price increase has not had any effects on access or abandonment, and argues that it has improved the efficiency of managing funds. This is a scientific study result. That's it. The other is to compare only the top of the top of the top without going into reality. I mean, for what she does in childhood and adolescence, they've almost dropped to half, on family rights and grants and help, the name of complaints. Also, complaints have been reduced by referring to childhood and adolescence care teams. There has been a reduction to 75 per cent in the number of complaints relating to family reunification and adoptions, and that, therefore, there is also a progressive improvement in this area. For what it does to social services, in a similar way, it has also dropped a 20_per_cent; it has reduced much to social inclusion; in percentage, too, to people with disabilities, the complaints that they refer to them, it has also diminished enough. And the complaints that make reference to great people, too. Similarly, with work and pensions, to the different sub-parties there are, they have all reduced in a very important way. For what it does to salvation, which is another great block, the increment is almost insignificant; a 1_per_cent, as it used to be. And say that when you analyze the statistical parameters in detail, all the numbers are very similar to that of the past year, but there is only one down, and in a very remarkable way, which is: disconformity in the diagnosis and treatment of the disease. There has been a great deal of decrease in complaints that are related to disconformity in diagnosis and malaise. A 42_per_cent. Good management, that we must congratulate the medical teams of the different hospitals and the different medical dispensaries. I, therefore, therefore, here too there is a good positive data. To say one thing, with reference to sanitation, when it comes to waiting lists: it is true that there are more people in waiting lists, it is also true that there is less waiting time. The people who have to go to the waiting list have the disease they have, and the name cannot be controlled by anyone, but it is the government's ability to reduce waiting time, which is what has been done. If there are more people and the number of waits is repeated, it means that the effort is very remarkable and very important. For what it does to emergencies, say that it has taken care of the realization of a national emergency plan to solve the punctual problems that can go to give. And I'll move on to another block, which refers to territorial policies – I'm running out of time. Here I would basically like to say that, while it is said that at the environmental level there have been many complaints, we would say that environmental complaints have fallen by 24_percent and that noise pollution has also fallen by 23_percent. It is true – it is true – that there has been much more urban activity, so more construction activity, so, I mean more complaints, that means doing some more urban planning. Therefore, more complaints of veins; when planning is done, all of us mayors know the complaints and the movements that it involves. And I would also like to point out the subject of mobility in the field of rollers, which is competence of whom it is competence, and which, therefore, does not extend because I am running out of time. I would like, yes, to make it very clear: the reduction of complaints in denunciations, a 19_per_cent, and everything the government has done. And beyond what has been avoided, only in 2016, 4,500 denunciations – twelve a day, huh? – we are talking about the 2015 law suspended and we are talking about the adoption of a new law, in 2016, on measures to protect the right to housing of people at risk of exclusion. Finally, I would like to go to the final block, which is, more than to say that there are fears that they will fall from Madrid, such as the issue of the Czech Republic, such as the issue of Rodalies, such as the subject of the law of dependence, such as the subject of scholarships, as I said, of the basic income of emancipation, which has been noted here..., it is Madrid. But to make a final reflection, which is: complaint is not the same as an incorrect act; complaint is not the same as a fonament de rao. Therefore, of the complaints made in 2016, if we betray 32,8_per_cent that they have no irregularity and we betray 7,5_per_cent that they are rejected for the same interested, there is a 40_per_cent of the complaints that fall. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Therefore, in order to have meaningful data – I told the committee – I think it would be good for us to go through all these data folds, so that we could really put the focus where the problem really is. And it would help us all, because what we want is to give a good service and have an administration that fits the needs very well. And finally – I ended up, President – we would like to see complaints that are different because of what it does to different administrations, whether it is Generality, as state, as local...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.174.0	I have a hard time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.175.0	...with privates.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.176.0	...but he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.177.0	I ended up congratulating, simply, the heavyweight syndic and his team, because a 99,4_per_cent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.178.0	He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.179.0	...of the syndic's recommendations have been accepted in whole or in part, which means that they have made good... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.180.0	Finally, I can intervene the heavyweight syndicate. There's a word from Mr. Rafael Ribó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.181.0	Thank you, President. Some details, some answers and some information. On page 14 of the report they will read that we announce – we deposit the 1st of February, therefore, it is said before the 1st of February – that we are culminating in a report on the European parameters of freedom to apply it to our home to see to what extent we comply with these parameters, and soon they will tend to their disposition. But here a very important institution has been mentioned, which is the Venice Commission, and a syndicate who also has the status of a member of the Venice Commission as president of the European defenders has told them. To the Venice Commission – which is no longer 2016, but 2017 –, at the beginning of March 2017, to the report that was seen on the reform of the Spanish Constitutional Court, immigrating from a report on Kazakhstan, Armenia, Poland, Hungary, Turkey – in situations of serious democratic difficulties – you say several times that the Constitution is about to be observed, that the constitutional courts must interpret it. But you make it very clear in the vast majority of your arguments and in the final sentence, that I have already remembered it expressly for someone who questions it: « The Venice Commission does not recommend... ; translation to català : « The Venice Commission does not recommend – says categorically – « the reform that has been made of the Law of the Constitutional Court. According to what he wanted to do is that the performance of offices on Reus and the woman who disbandedly died cremated is already published and presented. Therefore, it is available to all Members. And you'll see with what rigour you've worked from the syndic to the firm, to the assembly and to the generality. And, thirdly, I wanted to remind you that Renfe to Catalonia today, April 5, 2017, still has the name paid from the Central Administration – no one to Catalonia that influences Renfe's names to Catalonia – and all orders of command and of Renfe's scale come from the Central Administration. Renfe to Catalunya today. And I said in committee – and I want to repeat it here – that Renfe, Renfe's leaders in Catalonia, with the syndic, have always collaborated. But we don't lose sight of what we're talking about. It's done, isn't it? : the names are every month and the regulation of orders and so it is when you have to go out. And one more point: instead of the "top blanket" report, it is proposed to penalize the actions of the maintainers, instead. Keep it tight, please. I think we're the first institution we've dared to face a problem that, if you look at it from the angle you're looking at, it's a problem. And we're talking about the absolutely treacherous import of products, we're talking about the lack of taxation, we're talking about the social inclusion of those who work there, and how can we really move forward in this sense. And, obviously, we've had a lot of meetings convened by the syndic where various local authorities called on us to help solve this problem. And it also depends on you, that we can advance in the solution of this problem, that it is not true that it will exist, that it is not true that it is a very good answer for the people who see the countries that are really on the lowest side of the planet and that it is not true that the great cities will always have this problem. I would also like to give them in this same sense a set of answers, but very quickly. The agreement with the Català de los Dones Institute: the syndic is waiting for this. After a long time, a draft was passed; in a week we responded to a series of proposals, and we are hoping that it will be met by the Administration. As clear as I'm saying right now. It's a precision that I'd like to leave here, damont of the table. I would also like to point out, as it has been asked, that the syndic too – let me say it with a lot of "kindness" – lamented the very poor attendance of Members when in this very house we had the maximum representation in human rights from all over Europe. Questions that I think are worth noticing, because I'm guilty of having - skipped them to my first intervention; two very important ones. One, it was mentioned by a deputy in his intervention, in the 2016 report we are dealing with a very serious problem of territories in Catalonia: the purins. And we treated it from a job with all the union collections and all the professional collections about this sector, the purins. There can't be any shops in Catalonia where drinking water is practically not found. It cannot be that we do not have, indeed, a serious study, which is about to take place, on which this means territorial planning. It can't be that we don't already have emergency measures in place to recover the aquifers. And I'm going back to telling you about the kids or the nets, but it also affects us. And it can't be that you're not really doing the map you're planning, so you can take steps to respect it, and let's give it to them on April 2017. And the other very serious problem that I did not touch on the background because we discussed it yesterday in the Committee on Children, and because there is a monographic report, it is childhood; but I would like to need some things that have come out here. We need a cross-cutting policy to tackle childhood problems, and we need more money to tackle childhood policy. We're the bum, and I'm ashamed to say it, as the syndic. We're on top of European standards; we're on top of it. And there's no point in saying that they've downloaded child complaints. Clearly, they've gone down, because they've been waiting five years for them to pay and they've paid last year, and then, they're not coming, you're complaining; but I figured out what mechanism so perverted. We lack more resources, we lack more cross-cutting and coordination among all those who can influence the problem of childhood, which is very clear both in this report, with the telegraphic quote that is made because there is no monographic, as in the elaborations that are fan of the syndic. I would like to say, as the penultimate reflection, that this report has been presented throughout the territory. We have had sessions with drawings and drawings of people; to the lands of Lleida, to the lands of Girona, to the whole area of Tarragona-Reus, to the whole area of the Lands of the Ebro and to the area of Barcelona, and, especially, to the point where I say with great pride, the people who are making democracy also in Catalonia: people of many entities, professional colleges, social movements; that they do not have public power of election, but that they are worried daily about the better of the public business, that it is political. Before I mentioned them, Dignified Trains: they should give you a diploma, to these people, as if they were born, very often, raising themes without a party key – a party key that is necessary in democracy, but... – without a party key, they advance in raising real problems and solving them. And the syndic can make all these considerations, first, thanks to all the people who work with me, if I don't talk to them, but, second, thanks to all the people who work with us in the trenches are making it easier for us to get together with information about their daily work to improve the living conditions of the people. And I'm done with the demand again. We will continue to criticise everything we want to criticise, not the least doubt; denouncing everything we want to denounce. I know that I was told by Álvaro Gil-Robles when I took possession and he was a defender of the European people: "If when you finish your mandate you have not won enemies, you have done it wrong, and..., or go on, I have proved it. But it's the burden that you've made me, too, or that makes me the State. We will denounce and criticise with a proposal for collaboration always; it is always accompanied by a proposal for collaboration to solve problems. That's why we ask them: why don't we also carry the other three important reports, such as childhood, the mechanism and the transparency one, here, to the plenary? Because in their debate, in which logically they must contradict each other, that this is the sense of democracy, we go debugging and we bring the best solutions to these problems. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.182.0	Thank you very much, Mr Ribó. Mr. Santamaría, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.183.0	Yes, Madam President, for the remarks of the Member of the CUP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.184.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.185.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Vehi, I personally tell you with all sincerity, I am willing, personally, to learn. But that you intend to give our lessons in human rights after having assaulted with violence and intimidation the headquarters of the PP, only – only – fits in mind, and I say it to you clearly, warm when it comes to posing something that has nothing of democracy. Therefore, I urge you, if you really are democrats, to condemn what you have done, because that is intolerable. It's a hit-and-run that doesn't deserve any kind – no kind – of justification. And it seems a lie that you're still wrong that you're wrong defending those behaviors.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.186.0	On behalf of the chamber, I would like to thank the heavyweight syndic and members of his team for their participation in this plenary session. Mrs Vehi, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.187.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.188.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.189.0	Yeah. No, on the sidelines of what the Member of the People's Party has raised, where we do not want to enter because we understand that we have explained it fifty thousand times, we seem to have been disrespectful in his parliamentary office. And, well, we wanted to demand that you withdraw what you said; concretely, "warm minds. The truth is, we understand you don't have a place in a space like this. Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.190.0	I repeat: thank you very much, in the name of the chamber, to the heavyweight syndic and to all the members of his team. Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] Mr. Santamaría, Mrs. Vehi has asked you to withdraw this expression. Do you want to take it off?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.191.0	President, I too call for freedom of expression in Parliament, and it cannot be that freedom of expression is permanently curtailed by those who use violence as a political discourse and also put it into practice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.192.0	Okay, I don't. [[Report of the Commission for the Study of Measures to Combat Corruption for Democratic Regeneration]] [[260-00002/11]] The fifth point of the day's order is: Presentation of the Report of the Commission for the Study of Measures to Fight Corruption for Democratic Regeneration. In accordance with Rule 65.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, this Committee of Study has drawn up a report and conclusions which have been published in the Official Butlletí of the Parliament of Catalonia. According to what the Bureau has given, and in a consensual manner with all the parliamentary groups, this point will be supported by the presentation of the report by each group. And, after the presentation, we'll move to the next point on the order of the day. In the first place, has the word Mr. Fernando de Páramo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.193.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Councillor, Councillor, Members of Parliament, Members of the European Parliament who are accompanying us today, well, we are here today in this debate, because we in Citizens proposed the creation of this committee; it was we who proposed the creation of this Commission of Study against Corruption. When we were, moreover, at the beginning of the legislature, talking about what these commissions would be, that was the Citizens' proposal. Others, such as Junts for Yes, proposed the Constituent Procedure Commission, logically; logically, Convergence was not going to create a commission to talk about corruption; it would be as much as if the People's Party were to self-investigate as well. Therefore, they did not set up that commission, but created a commission to talk about independence, which is the specialty of the house. Well, we created that committee, we started it, it was our proposal, logically with the rest of the parliamentary groups, and the truth is that we would have liked that committee not to be closed, that it would have continued; in fact we proposed that this committee not be closed and that it should continue, but it was not possible. We believe that with corruption we have to fight every day, not just for a while and then we close it and no longer talk about corruption in Parliament; we believe that it should be constant. In any case, we believe that you can always learn from experts, you can always listen, you can always make new proposals. The fight against corruption must be daily, it cannot be closed and a commission can be given a folder, but it must always be. In fact, issues have been left unanswered, such as subsidies, recruitment, urban planning... It could have gone a lot deeper on these issues, I am convinced, because the second problem of Catalans is corruption, and of the Spanish – after unemployment, by the way. Well, we have been among the groups that we have contributed the most, and we are satisfied – the CUP has also done a good job of bringing forward proposals in this regard – and, as I say, of the groups that we have contributed the most to that committee, and satisfied. It surprised us, too, I'm saying... this isn't going to weight, huh? , which counts, does not go to weight, goes to the quality of proposal. But it has surprised us, therefore, that the PP has proposed, for example, more than Podemos or Catalonia Yes that it is Pot. I think that must also allow for a little reflection. And, if I may, before I begin to enter into the conclusions, I will give a little thought to one of the conclusions that our parliamentary group has drawn. It is a logically subjective and personal conclusion of this group, but I want to share it with all of you. And we have realized that when we talk about corruption Convergence and the People's Party are brothers' cousins. The old parties, when it comes to corruption, quickly agree; they forget the differences, and it is about covering up the shame and directly blocking a lot of reforms. How good the old parties get when we have to talk about fighting corruption! And the truth is that it is normal, because for many years the People's Party and Convergence have gone hand in hand in many governments and proposals. The rare thing is that in such a long time, in these government agreements, Convergence never demanded from the People's Party demands in the fight against corruption, never; I imagine it would ask for other things. The truth is that it would also have been funny to see Pujol demanding regeneration measures from the People's Party; I imagine that's why he didn't ask for them. But yes, regeneration measures can be required; in fact, we do. It's hard, too, I tell you, it's very hard. In fact, we've been forty-five days until the president of a community like Murcia has resigned. It is therefore hard to demand reforms from the People's Party, but it can be demanded. And the truth is that we have missed, as I say to you, these demands and we have missed, moreover, many of the proposals that have remained in the tinter because precisely because of the fact that the old parties get along very well when they have to talk about corruption, and in all this also Left by means, voting yes to everything that Convergence tells them in that committee. And this little reflection, if I may..., I am telling it because it says a lot about what has happened in the committee and the proposals that, in the end, we have committed ourselves in this Parliament to moving forward. And especially I want to highlight a few that have remained in the tinker and that I think could have gone ahead if it didn't come to be because of that gentlemen's pact between Convergence and the People's Party. For example, we proposed to eliminate more finger charges and that the charges be chosen by merit and not by the divine finger, basically because we pay them all Catalans, those charges, and, instead of making friends, put themselves to professionals. Well, well, they've come to an early agreement on that, too. Or, for example, that when there is a case of corruption of a public office we do not pay all citizens the defense in the courts of that case of corruption. That is, we have enough to be robbed directly of the citizens, as well as having to pay for the defence and the costs. Well, that is another of the Citizens' proposals that has also remained in the tinker, because, again, the usual have agreed. Create an authority to control public procurement, you know, an independent authority, an independent body that controls public procurement; a little boy, in this case one of your own, right? , to bring in his comrades..., but a control organ. Well, neither. No wonder, with everything you've done with public procurement so long, supposedly – supposedly. And then, for example, there are staff rotations that award contracts, that this is also a proposal, I think, interesting, not for Citizens, but for the whole Catalan society, that it is something as simple as that there are rotations in the positions that grant those contracts, so that one does not acquire vices, for so long, or bad practices. I believe that if, for example, these measures of having an independent body that is responsible for awarding these public contracts, and in addition to rotating the charges..., then, probably, we could have saved ourselves many of the public procurement plots that we are seeing these days – you know what I'm talking about. Then, other measures, like that there are only professionals at public procurement tables; it seems something obvious, doesn't it? Well, well, no; we also voted against that, the lords of the old parties quickly agreed not to. There must be politicians, of course, logically, there must be politicians; it will not be that so many technicians at the end say something coherent. And the same goes for the members of the ACC too, another body, another of those political chiringuitos where we have also proposed that there be professionals. Well, neither. No, professionals, no: politicians, there must also be politicians in the ACC, to then make very plural plurality reports. Therefore, as I say to you, many of the measures that have remained in the tinker, which we believe could have been done much more, but because of the usual ones, of those who still have the backpacks very full of corruption, because, logically, they have not come forward. These are just a few examples, as I say to you, are examples of those measures that have remained pending and that have not been adopted. I understand that both the People's Party..., also the Socialist Party has joined, by the way, many of these proposals to block the, but I understand that the People's Party and Convergence want to block those measures, because with many of them, if they go ahead, then they probably catch new cases of corruption, they probably investigate them even more, they probably audit everything they've done during this time, and it's better to leave everything under the carpet, before it comes to light. And then there are the paranormal phenomena, which are a number of paranormal phenomena that we have been observing in this committee of study, and that there are a number of proposals that are voted against in this plenary of Parliament and, instead, when the committee of study arrives, they are voted in favour; that the truth is that it is surprising, because Convergence, that it did not agree with the protection of whistleblowers for corruption..., that it is so obvious that those who work in the public service and detect a case of corruption have all the guarantees that they can denounce it, because often, for fear of losing their job, for fear of reprisals, the public workers themselves do not denounce a case of corruption. Well, it seems common sense that they have the freedom to report, because they are sometimes the first to report corruption. Well, Convergence voted no to a proposal, I imagine, because the proposal was for Citizens in the Plenary and for that in the photo they voted no. Well, now they have voted yes, what a coincidence; now, suddenly, in the committees, they have voted yes. So, I've got the..., say misconception, but I'm starting to think that many of the votes that Mr. Junts have made for Yes in this committee are to be able to say today the headline that Junts for Yes has approved and voted in favour of three hundred measures to fight corruption. I say this because you are in the middle of Palau's case, literally paradeing your comrades through the courts, and it is good news that you can say that you approve 300 measures to fight corruption. But well, it doesn't – it doesn't – because many of the measures have blocked them and because many of those measures have voted for them than on other occasions. So what does not work with corruption is to say: « One day I vote yes, another day I vote no, depending on the judicial calendar that my party has. I don't think it's the right thing to do. Fortunately – and with this I finish – there are good proposals that have come forward despite some, and they are proposals in which we talk about ending political outbursts, so that there are no privileges for politicians in the 21st century; ending pardons for politicians for cases of corruption, because there are some parties that when they catch their own for cases of corruption they then pardon them and re-enact them; reforming the appointment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia; more transparency in the financing of parties; subsidiary patrimonial responsibility..., measures that we believe are going to benefit society greatly and that are good in the fight against corruption and that they will really be able to put an end to that scourge that poses one of the problems in which all citizens agree that they are a scourge for them. Well, I think we have an opportunity with this study committee that we proposed in its day, and we hope that those proposals will be fulfilled. Because we can also fall into the speech that citizens perceive that this from Parliament as being useless, because in the end in the Pujol committee, in the previous committee, in this case, the Committee of Inquiry into the Convergence case, there have been very good investigations and conclusions that have not been applied afterwards. In fact, we are either voting or we have already voted in committee on a number of reforms that have already been approved in the Pujol committee, that is, we are repeating again things that have already been approved. I therefore ask from here that when things are approved, when Parliament decides, they go ahead, they go forward, they don't just stay in a headline, they don't stay in a parliamentary vote, they have a run, because, if not, we can finally get the citizens to stop trusting politics because of the corrupt parties of the past. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.194.0	Thank you very much, Mr De Paramo. Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.195.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, if you remember, of the'say, say, say? , expressed that the President of the Generality, Mr Pujol, in his appearance to the investigating committee of the Pujol case, was served, I do not know if to escape from his responsibilities. But when there is mass," they say, say, "we are not before only rumors with curse, are we not? By the way, let me tell you something. At the end of the Pujol investigation committee, all the parliamentary groups agreed that at the beginning of the new legislature, it is, I say, that we would resume the work of that committee, which has resulted in a study committee. So, it was an agreement of all the parliamentary groups, huh? Well, I told them that when they collect clues, one after the other, when those who believe they are unpunished write down all their agendas or their computers and leave a trace of evidence in everyone's eyes, in an impudent attitude, we have a problem. When even the laws are turned over to give a legal patina to that which, from morality, we know is not correct, we have a problem. We've worked this out before, 'cause I'm looking at how many commissions of inquiry we've done in the last seven years, huh? Therefore, we have concluded and made proposals and we have said that some things do not work, that we need to change the laws. We also said that we need to change conduits that have to do with individual ethics, even with family ethics and collective ethics, that like society what we should do is not be so permissive with these conduits. As journalist José Martí Gómez assures..., he makes a statement that I agree with it, when he says that "there will be no political regeneration in this country until the ethical values that today are drifting are recovered. Well, how does society have to reflect deeply on and change culture understanding corruption with upper case and lower case corruptions that can end up in upper case corruptions, right? But we also need to change... we don't just need to make ethical calls: we need to change laws to make criminal, individual or collective conduct more difficult, right? Someone might say: "No, it's the cases that come out now that are past water, that are past water. You let me deny them the Major, don't you? , because, as I said before, after the set of commissions of inquiry that we have created in this Parliament in the last seven years, they follow irregular attitudes of illegitimate profit from institutions for more than dubious finances, and also from the particular gathering of public resources by some of these characters. I don't want to talk to them about this particular intervention, do I? In fact, it was not the object of this study committee. Actually, on the first day we have enough events, don't we? : the judgment of the Millet case with its derivatives, the investigations of the prosecution and of an instruction judge about the 3_per_cent, the festival of the Sagrera that affects the workings... That is to say, in the end here we always see the same, right? Triangulations between leaders of governments, entrepreneurs and party thresors, as we have seen in the recent past. I think there's a majority wish to end these practices. In fact, corruption is not a topic that affects only Catalonia or Spain. There is a recent, very recent report from the European Union that says that the impact of practical evils on the public finances of the twenty-eight countries of the European Union reached 120_million euros per year, and that tax fraud in the European Union, which is another form of corruption, reached the gross euro. Undoubtedly, obtaining illegal benefits always undermines public resources and, consequently, citizens, who ultimately bear the cost of corruption. Corruption has an absolutely dissolving character for democracy, and now, if we have an institutionally weak democracy, it's something that is feedback, it's especially avowed because corruption can camp without obstacles, right? To deal seriously with this behavior is essential to return public trust in democratic institutions and public servers, whether they are political or functioning. And it is not possible to tackle the fight against corruption without taking into account the problems of this natural, where the private sector also participates. If the private sector did not also participate in these tripijocs, there would probably be no corruption in the public sector. Corruption, tax fraud, tax havens, a triangulation that always goes hand in hand. Margarita Robles, judge of the Supreme Court and today a socialist deputy, when she was a judge of the Supreme, she was demonstrating, not long ago, that today is still more essential than ever the adoption of effective measures that may manifest the real will to fight corruption. And we, what we wanted to do in this committee of studies, even though some of us have made repeated proposals from other committees of inquiry, are certain, because very few have set themselves in the way, we have wanted to make proposals that go in this direction to propose new laws and to modify some others. We believe that we need to move forward with a more professional, more capable, more independent administration, which we need to simplify the structure of the public sector, the generalization of its procedures, and that is why we have proposed... It is clear that this legislature will not be able to tackle because, according to the Government, of its parliamentary commitments, we are about to finish it, we do not know the exact month, but that we are about to finish it, and therefore a reform of this kind is sure that it cannot be addressed in this legislature, but that it should be on the agenda of parliamentary groups in the proper legislative period. We believe that it is necessary to make an organizational law of the Administration of the Government of Catalonia, a law of the public office of Catalonia, a statute of the public directive that guarantees the professionalization of the executive direction of public entities, a stricter regulation of incompatibilities and also a reform of the system of election of control bodies and regulators, guaranteeing a greater institutional weight in their composition. Now that we are also discussing the public sector contract law, we believe that it is also time to address, in this reform, strengthening the professionalism of the contracting months in order to guarantee the procedures; to ensure greater restriction in the use of extraordinary procedures of the utmost urgency; to guarantee the maximum clarity in the criteria for the valuation of tenders, including the possible criteria subject to them. Because, mirin, President Mas, in his appearances in Parliament, said: "I can assure you that the awards that have been made are absolutely correct. Well, from the same company that awards more to Catalonia, Infrastructures. cat, if 'nsha explained how it can influence a certain direction for such to make awards in one sense or another. And, therefore, with this reform of the Law on Public Sector Contracts this issue has to be made clear. As well as establishing a clear and necessary legal framework for the procedures to commission or delegate public policy management to private individuals, eh? – I am referring to public services. And we must establish the prohibition of contracting, on the part of the Public Administration, for a certain period of time that we believe cannot be less than three years, those undertakings where their directives or personnel have been sentenced for cases of corruption or illegal financing of political parties. And in the field of justice, we believe that the courts and courts and the anti-corruption prosecutor's office should be provided with more support teams specialized in economic crimes so that they can pursue corruption, that they can increase the prescription terms for corruption crimes, especially for those who do disability penises. Miri, finally, let me say that from my option a can be of dreets, a can be of lefts, can be more radical, more liberal, more conservative, but what we cannot lose are the ethical criteria in public life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.196.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. Next is the words of Mr. Albano Fachin, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.197.0	Thank you, President. A gentleman who was saying Noel Claraso said: "A man of state is what passes half his life by making laws and the other half by helping his friends not to complete them. We don't do laws, we do study commissions, and it's okay. I, and I think that all of us who have been there, are after a lot; the people who have come to bring things, knowingly, have enriched us all; the conclusions do not think that they are at the height of what we have listened to, I think that there is a good percentage of the conclusions that are good, that they are expressions of desire, and it is good that everyone is doing this exercise, is never more, but we need to reflect that we have done a little while ago. The other time, when Ciutadans presented a motion for a resolution – it seems to me that it was – or a motion on corruption, we are there many times, which we are talking about, for example, hamster, right? With this corruption we're also a bit of a hamster, because we're saying the same thing over and over again. I read the conclusions of the previous committee, which, as the Socialist Party Member said, well, there they are. They're a lot of masks, but we haven't made much progress. Of course, there are conclusions that you say: "Well, that Law 19/2014 is fulfilled. I can't study well, and it seems to me that we proposed this to us, huh? I mean, I'm not criticizing anyone, but what else do we have to do? I mean, there's no law. What is the use and publication of the Public Information Guarantee Commission? Of course, and so much, that we have to do, but that's what should be done. What's the 43/XI motion? That's compleixi. If you want to put a point in some conclusions of a committee of study that says that a motion of the Parliament is completed, it means that the motions of the Parliament are not completed. It's no news to anyone. We can use the mechanisms we have: the Commission, the Union of Accounts, the Anti-Fraud Office. Well, whether we make them serve or not, we make them serve, or if we bring them the juice that we can get from them, so we make decisions that we make here and that we could have before a lot. I don't want to insist, because I defend, unlike others..., I think TV3 does a good job and it's very necessary and it still does more, and I've said it before with the reports of the Greuges Syndicate, and we can also say it with the reports of the Union of Accounts. It's like nonsense. I say, and we said, "Listen to me, why don't we make a show on TV3 where the syndic goes and say, for half an hour, explain what you say the report such or the report which? Well, he's going to vote no. Why is there this interest in what the syndic does, and who says the syndic says the Anti-Fraud Office, the Greuges Syndic, or who it is, why is this interest that you don't know about? I will set just one example. We all know that one day for TV3 we've known that they're blocking the Mossos d'Esquadra to Palau de la Musica, right? "Oh, what happened? Is the oasis broken? Ostres, the union of ugly accounts years he warned. If the day the Account Union was notified in the first time, disbanded, was explained seven years before what was going on, it is likely, it is very likely that we would not have to wait these seven years. It seems silly, but it was voted no. There's someone who's happy, we have a medal, we have a union, we have this, we have a law of contracts, we have no idea what. Now, the less I talk about it, the better. More personal for the Mossos, for investigating economic crimes. Of course, the police went with a six-cent and the others went with a Ferrari, and that's what we've known since the police chased horses, right? And I still feel that way. And, let's say, the tax agency also has to have more resources, the tax agency. Worry, for here we have heard it: "No, the tax agency must not pursue, it must not be painful, it must cooperate. You see that's modernity in taxation. Oh, you have to work together. Of course, if the tax agency collaborates – and I forgive to insist on it, but I have to do it – with PricewaterhouseCoopers, bad, bad, bad. And that, then, continues to happen while we... It may prohibit donations to political parties. There's a whole series of questions about donations, isn't there? Well, we've made a law proposal about this. Well, we'll see what happens when the time comes, because it's true that sometimes things are voted for, sometimes some other things are voted for, depending on how the day comes. It may remove outages, it may remove pardons, it may eliminate conflicts of interest. Said the deputy of Ciutadans: "Let the citizens, be careful, that the citizens do not think that what we do here is useless. Of course, there is a very important risk, among other things because – and that too I have said many times when we talk about corruption both in the committee and in the Union of Accounts as in this House – one of the great dangers that citizens, all citizens, see that everything we do is useless when we take transparency and the fight against corruption as one more element of political marketing to come and say: "We are the ones who fight corruption the most. That's a danger, because in the end it turns into a tool, I don't know, they say. Maybe someone's been listening to this about the state pact, but be careful to come and see here, to compete to see who's fighting corruption the most. Because, with all the "kindness," when we can put a government of the People's Party, the most corrupt party in southern Europe, to rule, we talk about it – we talk about it – but for now you have to conform to criticizing us for coke. If there's anything that's helped, and I'm sure it's something that we share, it's that during the process of appearances we've seen that in this country, beyond the marketing and what we can see here, there are a lot of people who do, that they do work a lot, which they haven't listened to for a long time. Let's hope with that at least it'll be used to listen to her. We have seen – and just one example, or two – the Social Pact against Corruption, which is a people who have been there and have not come to put medals, and now you don't have their two minutes here to explain how they have seen it; it would have been fine. We have Xnet's people, who also came, whom I quoted the other day. And they always tell us one thing... that, for example, Rat didn't take him to the Ciutadans defendants' banquet, that's a party that makes a lot of years that exists, didn't take him to Ciutadans, neither did he take him to Podemos, he took the people. That's why I'm saying that we don't have medals that don't match us, because then what we're doing is we're weakening what's coming from the street. Corruption is at IBEX, it's there: it's at the buffet and Diagonal consultants up. Obviously, we, all of us here, have to keep working, but we don't have a medal, we don't banish corruption, because every time a game comes out here to put the medal is laying the stone of the next scandal. Thank you. [[Some applause.]] Thirty-two seconds left. I want to think that the fact that now does not put an ampoule for each one of you talking must be a measure of estavi – of glass, as at least – that I celebrate with all of you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.198.0	Yes, Mr Fachin, it's a measure of..., because we are now working in the Sustainable Parliament. [[Rialles. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Fachin. The words of Ms. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.199.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... well, I think this isn't a toilethouse, it's a proposal. I would like to examine why we are here today, and from where we come to be, today, discussing the report of the findings of the Commission of Study against Corruption. The Commission for the Study of Corruption and Democratic Regeneration knows that it is not the first. It's the first one with this title, but it's not the first one to deal with, quite simply, how to fight and deepen before the fight against corruption, both in pre- and post-corruption. I think you remember perfectly the Pujol Commission, the name of the Pujol Commission. And I am sure that despite the fact that there are some Members here who were not, you recognise in many of these conclusions that I have included in this report many measures that have been proposed practically more than two years ago. Okay. That's a sign. There's something that doesn't work, right? If after two years we find ourselves here. What have we done and what do we believe, since the People's Party, that we need to analyze? Basically, from here we have done two important things, but with certain limits: the Code of Conduct of Members, in the first term, and, in the second term, a law of transparency. Okay. The first, the Code of Deputies. The Code of Deputies has served to make Members public their political agenda, so that we present all the statements of IRPF, and even not to pay more than one hundred and fifty-euro import gifts, which is fine. Now, did it serve beyond the anecdote? Has the Code of Conduct been a hindrance to those who believe symbols from this plenary or from the press room of this Parliament? Or those who use violence as a political star assailing their democratic parties, how did the People's Party suffer last week? Did it serve for those deputies who today are in this chamber... no longer ring, clean up and train their cadres to accuse and coerce a democratic party? It didn't do any good. Nor did it serve because this plenary was called upon to attend to those whom they serve, in their speech, insults. We have rejected insults like: « the People's Party is racist, « Francoist, « phalangist or « double agent. Did you serve the Code of Conduct? No, no, The second, the law of transparency has brought very positive data. Local administrations have made a huge effort to make a virtually comprehensive striptease of control, exemplarity of expenditure, efficiency and exemplarity of administrations. But it's funny that this doesn't go any further, because, in the end and in the end, the model that some public administrations have in which to admirate themselves is the councillor of Transparency, that you know that it is the one that most violates this Law of Transparency; we don't just give it to the Members of the Opposition, but, finally, has explained it today the sindicum of hardships from this Faristol. If the same Transparency advisor is the first offender, we understand that the efficiency of this law, therefore, cannot be fulfilled. Maybe the counselor with the eighty-seven trips he made during this year didn't have time to give the information he needed from his counselor. Sometimes, being the first to legislate doesn't mean you're doing well, and that what you decide in Parliament, so sometimes it's interpreted as a deception for the citizenry. And this – this – is precisely gathered today in a diary, which is The Journal of Catalonia, which has made, precisely, a well-detailed article of what we would do today in this plenary session. The title, the title, of this article was "Plagi al Parlament". He practically assigned us as the actors of a political postureig in terms of corruption. I believe that today we will approve some questions or ratify this report with some conclusions that are viable and that can be completed and others that are not. From the People's Party we have apostate, in all the comparisons and conclusions we have presented, to what you are among our skills and possibilities to complete in short and medium terms. We are a refugee of great proposals, those which were produced two years ago and which today are reproducing, because we do not believe in the policy of: "Ours more. No, no, Ours, quality. Protect whistleblowers from corruption? It can't be done. To abolish indulgence and expansion, to increase the limitation period for corruption offences, to deny the right to compete for tender to companies that have subsidiaries to tax havens, appointments of higher courts of justice – National High Court, Supreme Court, Constitutional Court... –, measures that can be repeated re-legislative legislature because they require reforms that are not to be done from here, that have to be done from the Congress of Deputies, and, curiously, with very strengthened majorities. Why? Because they involve a series of reforms affecting the Constitution, the Organic Law of the Judiciary, the General Tax Law, the Law of Administrative Contracts, the Law of the Civil Service, the Law of the High Powers of the Public Administration, and the Statutes of Autonomy. They can talk about it. We've practically spent a year and a half talking about it, one and a thousand times. But if we don't look at it, once and for all, realistic and feasible facts, we won't get anywhere, and photography, in the end, is what it is. The whole issue of corruption carried from legislative chambers is more of a posture than an effective will to fight corruption. It has to be said that there have been many legal changes practically in the last five, six years, and that we, like the Government and from Madrid, have made changes such as: banning debt cancellations to the political party – there are some that have not been known, because they were proposed here and here–, strengthening of the Criminal Code – nor have some –, Transparency Law, Office of Recovery of Act, High Court Law, Economic Activity Control Law and financing of political parties, modification of the Criminal Court Law. Is that enough? It is obvious that while there are cases of corruption, whether or not they are in courts, everything... – everything –, everything forecast is little, but it is. I will give examples of those measures which I believe between these conclusions can be brought to an end, and which require – they require – the agreement of all of us, which are: improving control, contracting, transparency and fraud. We have not presented about these things: reduction of 50_percent of smaller contracts, which is where corruption is often found; new functions for the Union of Accounts, we have the possibility of making a modification that requires taxation with smaller contracts, cash criteria, memorizing the efficiency or not of the services and costs..., of the costs and efficiency of public services, whether or not they are granted; establishing more stringent criteria with criteria of good governance and effective administration; improving the departures of the contract – this does not require a modification, but a willingness on the part of the Administration to improve them –; completing with the Law of Administration and Public Contract, which we have proposed in this way. The free designation is to appoint a career officer for a certain place between the Public Administration. They do not serve your family until the fourth degree, as does Mrs. Colau at the Barcelona Assembly. So, you see, if we all have our share, I think we can get a lot better in terms of corruption. Now, if he is the one I saw here, this Faristol, during the previous interventions, we will get to the point: "Running is healthy, but when it is done on the wrong path, it comes to a bad place. And especially when it becomes absolutely dazzled by demagogy. The one that distributes honesty cards to some people who are part of specific political parties, the one that speaks of the democratic legitimacy of some and others not. Because, in the end, demagogy is also dishonesty; it is political dishonesty, of course, and has a devastating effect on democracy, almost as much as corruption. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.200.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Next is the words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.201.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members and Members, first of all, and as a matter of fact, we would like to thank that on this occasion..., above all because it is the first time that we bring the conclusions of a study committee to this chamber, after the conclusions of the Study Commission of the Constituent Process, it is all an honor to be able to address the chamber without risk of quarreling to the president, or of quarreling to the rest of the members of the Bureau, and that..., thanks, members of the PP, thanks, the Government of Mariano Rajoy and the Constitutional Court to let us have a debate on this chamber on the conclusions of a study committee. Second place, I wanted, too, to leave on the table that... – and to answer, in this sense, right? , to MP Esperanza García – what do I find that, well, in order to be a marginal or almost marginal group I find that they give us enough importance in their speeches, right? But, in any case, we have not come here to give lessons from nothing to nothing – from nothing to nothing – but what we will not accept is that the most corrupt party in Europe – the most corrupt party in Europe – has stolen, looted and found in hundreds and hundreds of procedures to steal citizens' money, comes to give lessons to us. And we'll explain it every time you need it! [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, you: the most corrupt party in Europe. And I think this is a good time to say it, the moment we address the findings of the Commission for the Study of Measures against Corruption. And, he said this – and quite briefly, to point out some ideas about the value that we make of the committee –, to make it clear – and it's a shame, I think, that you didn't say it, because it was an agreement that, more or less, we agreed with all the parliamentary groups – so, that... – and in this sense, I take the word of the citizen's deputy – here, no one has given the job against corruption for the end. What we have more or less agreed is that we would continue to work through another methodology, which consisted of addressing four pieces of law that we have opened in this Parliament: that of the Anti-Fraud Office, which is precisely in the interests of citizens; that of public contracting, which are governed by an initiative of the Government; that of political parties, which are governed by an initiative of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, and that of ineligibility of public authorities, which are governed by an initiative of the Socialist Party. So, with these four pieces of law, we can now take concrete measures that we can approve them as soon as possible better and that somehow they can come into force, right? And so, in this sense, there was a certain feeling that what was the study of the matter of corruption, so we had already exhausted it and that what we had to do was to start implementing measures; some of them are already in the conclusions that we have today, in some ways, approved. I would certainly like to say two things about the functioning of the committee. First, that the session diary is testimony to the contribution that each parliamentary group has made. Therefore, here every one will know what he has done and what he has not done. But I'd like to put it in full that we've had an important absence, which is the judiciary. We have repeatedly wanted to listen to the judiciary in relation to the fight against corruption, we have repeatedly quoted it to the Commission, and the judiciary has refused to compare in this committee, so many different courts to which we have called for it with the same president of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. I think it is a shame, in this sense, that this Parliament, when it does its study of the phenomenon, cannot count on the opinion of the members of the judiciary. And I would also like to hear why these reticences of the judiciary subtend 'a democratic organ, such as the Parliament, so, in some way, interact..., or if it is thought that democratic legitimacy, the judiciary, has it in itself. That is to say, the judiciary has to win it, too, democratic legitimacy, and a good way to win it - it's fair to the citizen through an institution like Parliament. In any case, we must also say that at the same time as this commission we worked to deploy the movement of the Catalan Republic, zero corruption, and that in this sense we think that the Government still has some duets pending. And when we publish the compliment control of our young man we continue to find great shortcomings, and we continue to see exactly why we cannot know how many police units have dedicated to the fight against corruption, why we cannot know how many resources the Ministry of Justice allocates to financing the anti-corruption prosecution's activity..., and ultimately we can do one thing on our part to want to provide more resources for these spaces and to ensure, in short, that these units exist, that they work, that they expand and that it is a priority on the government's agenda of this issue, right? And, therefore, we have to say – we have to say: the Bill of Presumptives Project did not contain a single match for fighting corruption. The project finally approved contained a background that was precisely incorporated from a CUP theme. And I think, in this sense, that we must give more priority, more visibility, to the fight against corruption, and that, somehow, we must also address it in all its aspects. And it seems to us, in a sense, a little consistent that today we approve these 245 measures, it seems to me that they are, in the end, fighting corruption and that, in change, when last week the maximum responsible for what has been the country's greatest corrupt actor, and I refer to Arthur But as Secretary General of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, goes to the chamber, the group that gives support to the Government is limited to making a speech in the name of the presumption of innocence. We're barely going – we're barely going – if we don't have the ability to begin to recognize... Because the recognition of errors, the recognition of what corruption is in this country during the autonomic era, is an essential and necessary step to keep moving forward, and we can't keep shielding ourselves from the presumption of innocence precisely to cover all these issues. And I think that... In this sense, of the plurality that exists in Juntes for the Yes, I think of Esquerra Republicana, I think of the independents, we would have expected a more democratic logic of hygiene, a more zero-corruption logic in the construction of the Catalan Republic, than a logic of a party to cover up the shames of Democratic Convergence, as we saw in Artur's appearance but in the last Committee on Institutional Affairs. Therefore, the compromise in the fight against corruption must be cross-cutting, it must be on the political agenda. We do not see that this government has it as a priority issue. Councilman Romeva has a lot of work to do in many areas, and perhaps he would be convinced that there is a figure in this government who specifically deals with the issue of fighting corruption, because, if not, we have the feeling that it is not up there, right? In any case, we do want to look forward to the future, and we want above all to mark two small targets in the proper months, beyond the deployment of the ponies we have said. On one side, and as the Observer City against Corruption has repeatedly asked of us, prepare a summit of all the political forces that signed that Social Pact against Corruption. Let us remember: all the forces of this Parliament, except the most corrupt party in Europe, the People's Party. In this pact, one of the ideas was to convene a summit, and so we think that the next month of May could be a good time for us to convene this summit of social, political, trade union, actors of all kinds in the fight against corruption. And so, somehow, from here I want to make a place for this Parliament because we make efforts to organize this summit in this Parliament in the next few weeks. And secondly, we have at hand the deployment or implementation of the Catalan Anti-Corruption Mechanism, which we have defined as a little in the conclusions of this committee, and I think it is now up to the Government to issue some type of decree or legal instrument that gives cover to what has been approved as the backbone of this coordination mechanism. And we'd like to end, finally, with a reflection of the Garcés Marine philosopher, because, somehow, in the end, more there, right? If corruption is very much, it is very little, if we can fight it very much or very much, which, in our opinion, and in this sense we agree with the philosopher..., is that it is the same system that, somehow, favors the existence of corruption. And, ultimately, the question that we are asking ourselves, or that is the same Garcés Navy, is whether there is an ethical capitalism, whether there can be a free capitalism of corruption. And he concluded it to the one above Marina Garcés is that no – it's that no. Because honesty – she says – « always involves the attention of others and of others and implies keeping « as in the case of the same action the situation of the conjunction of reality, of which it is common, of the community. And, therefore, there can be no honest capitalists, as Marina Garcés says. Because capitalism can be legal, but we can hardly understand how honest what is measured exclusively with its own wealth and benefits. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.202.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Next is the words of Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.203.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, I may try to censure a little more to the question of the order of the day. Congressman Salellas did it, didn't he? , and it did refer more strictly to the Commission's own conclusions. Yes, it's true that at first there have been some interventions a little more age, let's say, or more meetings, isn't it? , to say the least. In any case, this committee has been a committee in which we have worked for more than a year, it was the generation of the year 2016, where we have made twenty-three appearances, where there have been fifteen work sessions, and it is a committee that has been created, and here Mr Terrades has said, among other things because the conclusions of the CIFEF already say so. Someone here has tried to say that he's worth it, as we're used to it, from another gang; on the other hand, we're very used to being told that. But that was already at the committee's conclusion last year's legislature, approved for all. Therefore, a little rigor – a little rigor. And we don't have any inconvenience... effectively, we pushed a commission for the constituent process. Of course, and we are not proud, and there is no problem, as we are also proud to have voted in favour of creating this commission that today formally, let's say, tank, is corruption. Finally, we talked about the tasks that are being done administratively, for the Government of the Generality, with the Lord Foz, with the Metropolitan Area, with the Lady Calvet, with the Lord Joan Llinares, precisely, also, with the Assembly of Barcelona; we talked about the mechanisms of control; the Syndicate of Accounts, the Mayor of Greuges, the Anti-Fraud Office, have also come to the committee; the GAIP, which is one of the parties in which we have influenced the conclusions; at the judicial level, the Prosecutor Sánchez Ulled, also familiar with the committee, spoke to him recently; the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Court of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce. So, I, today, for some of the things that have been said, the truth is that I've had a little bit of a surprise, because there's been a committee that actually did an important job during this year that was present. That said, I would like to do, and no one has done it... but I think it is a waste, too, to do a thank you from the House of Commons and from this farostol to the Anti-Fraud Office in Catalonia, which has been a specialist member of the committee and which has made a really good document as far as conclusions are concerned, and I think that from here I should like it there. And I also want to thank Observers City against Corruption... effectively, Congressman Salellas made reference, didn't he? In the manifesto, in agreement signed, but they have also made a document of conclusions, they have participated, they have been in the different commissions, and I think I need to do this grace, also here today, from the Faristol. That said, how did a catastrophic point ever get painted, huh? I don't question it... but I'd really like to put in value things that have been done, because if I don't sometimes think we have a feeling, sometimes, of being a little bit in Matrix, don't we? This Parliament has approved the Code of Conduct for this same legislature, this is an advent; this Parliament has made the lobby register; this Parliament has published the agendas; this Parliament in 2014 made the Law of Transparency, which applies and which is of the most advanced in Europe, I think we should not be proud of; the Generality has pushed the portal of transparency; it has included the anonymous complaints to the OAC; the Generality has already bid to calculate the tax gap to the tax agency. These are all things that were taken back to the last committee, that some of these also come out to make them better and to make them more concrete..., and that's already a fan. Therefore, I believe that it is also just, in fact, to recognize all the things that they do, because, among other things, I believe that they come from the work that we have done in this commission. And, indeed, we have touched upon many fears. We talked about transparency. And here are many conclusions, I said, right? Following interest groups, the Register of Interest Groups, the advertising of agendas, the codes of conduct, the promotion of the Regulation, which is already working, and is one of the conclusions of the GAIP, which is important; we have talked about opening data from the trade register; the issue of training in corruption schools; we have talked about control mechanisms; we have talked about anonymous complaints, we speak about this proposal now; we have talked about the creation of ethical goods; we have talked about public management, such as avoiding public contracts with tax havens, and I believe that this is especially the case when we are talking about political parties, how to limit delays, how to limit the finances, how to deal with problems, how to deal with problems, how to deal with problems. And so I could go on. Two-hundred_forty-five proposals, indeed, of which many are truly interesting, and which, moreover, I believe, one positive thing is that they are from all groups. Therefore, I believe that, frankly, we can congratulate ourselves on the task we have done. That said, it is true that there are proposals that have already come out and have not applied. It's the truth. But, of course, when we talk about the judicial sphere, the competitions do not have them in this Parliament; when we talk about taxation, the competitions do not have them in this Parliament; when we talk about introducing crimes into the penal code, the competitions do not have them in this Parliament; when we talk about pardons, neither; when we talk about party financing, neither. But, of course, there are some who see that they are very influential in the Spanish State but that they only present these measures here, where, of course, they are approved, but where we do not have the skills to do them. And that's why there's a part of these conclusions that came from before but that's not fan. That said, I would like to clarify a few things in the City Group, because the truth is that I was surprised. I was surprised because they said how many incretions they really surprised me, didn't they? Months of contractation: here in Parliament it is already that way – here in Parliament it is that way. For technical people. But I want to explain to Mr De Paramo... because I have found many strange things. Among the strange things... is that who makes the findings of the corruption commission is a person who hasn't come to the corruption commission. He's never come, he hasn't actually been a member, but today he's come to hire us on the job we've done for a person who hasn't participated in this committee for a minute. I would have liked to have discussed it with Mr Espinosa, who has done an intense job, and I want to thank him, at the length of the committee. So, that left me puzzled, already on the way in. Therefore, I want to say a few things to him, because he also said: "No, you have voted against the charges he has said, so and so. Well, proposal 131, approved. Says textually: "It is necessary to limit in institutions the possibility for elected candidates to name trusts, and to guarantee and promote the merit and ability principles by restricting to the maximum the free work places designated and establishing the merit contest as the main internal promotion system. You said this wasn't approved. Well, proposal 131. But he didn't come to the committee. That's why I read it, because maybe you don't know. Does it look very bad to you, this conclusion? Do you know why I'm saying that? Because he's from Ciutadans, this proposal. You're his. And do you know who voted for it? Ours. And you know who didn't vote for it? The Socialist Party and the People's Party. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, you have to clarify yourself – you have to clarify yourself. Because, then, you have made many proposals and talked about limiting election spending. Do you know who voted for it? Ours. Do you know who voted against it? The People's Party and the Socialist Party. You have made proposals in conflicts of interest, 184 and 185. Do you know who didn't vote for it? All groups voted for it, and the PP didn't. So you say that we see that we understand each other a lot, with the PP; I don't know, I was very surprised, because, to judge by the votes, that's more than the reality, but I insist, as you didn't come, I explain it. But, of course, we have presented sixty – sixty – proposals, sixty, Junts for the Yes. Do you know how many people didn't vote? Three. All the rest voted for us. Home, so badly they must not have done it! Unfortunately, they must not have done so, because, of our conclusions, you have all voted for them. Do you know who didn't vote for us? That it's not a contract companies that have their own in tax havens. You didn't vote on this, our conclusion. Curious. Second: to have more skills at the tax agency. You didn't vote for us either. And third, that one of the problems to prevent corruption is not having jurisdiction in judicial matters. This one, you didn't vote for us either. Curious theirs, say, interpretations of this commission. But in any case, and I finish, because I'm eating time, we actually want tools; we want tools to be able to build a better country – a better country. You said Pujol, Aznar and how they handled it and I don't know what, but in fact, you defined autonomy, and I like it. That's why we're independent. That's why we talk about voting and talking about making a reference, because we believe in democracy. That's why we've actually made a process commission and we want to make a process constitute, because we want to ask everyone and that everyone is a mother and a founding father of the republic. And, therefore, we want participation. And we want a republic, yes, to have more tools, to be free, because that is what we want, and, therefore, to be able to build a country with free people, but it is also free from corruption. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.204.0	Thank you very much, Mr Gomez del Moral. Thank you very much. Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.205.0	Yes, Madam President, by direct allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.206.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.207.0	Well, see, I'll tell Mr. Salellas that the most corrupt party in Europe is Democratic Convergence. [[strong remorse of the eyes]] The government that you are collecting, the one that you want to do to us, precisely because of this, outside Europe. Or you have not yet heard of the Palau case, the Catalan Occupational Service, or the cancer disease. You still haven't heard about this or feel comfortable picking up this game?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.208.0	Mr De Paramo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.209.0	By obvious contradictions and allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.210.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.211.0	Well, Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral, yes, I am not a member of that committee, I am a member of other committees, but you who go every day to that committee, as you say, should know that this committee proposed it Citizens. I say this because since you go every day, read El País, La Vanguardia, El Periodico de Catalunya, talk to Mr Turull, that we negotiate with him that commission. He created it Citizens, yes. And logically you created it Citizens, and you didn't create it. Because, you know what you've done? Go on the lists with the most corrupt party – I'm going to stay in Spain –, go with them in the government, share seats with them. I sympathize with a Republican like you who is sitting next to the rotting corruption of Convergence. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.212.0	Mr. Salellas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.213.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.214.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.215.0	No, I don't think Mrs. Esperanza García has felt at least half of what I've said since the Faristol, because I've been referring very clearly to Democratic Convergence, with some very concrete words, and concretely to her secretary general. In any case, look, it's not a competition issue. It seems pretty embarrassing to say if the People's Party or Democratic Convergence is more corrupt. But I would ask you one thing: bring data; tell me how many defendants you have..., how many defendants you have, numerically, and how many defendants you have at Convergence Democr... [[Widow's remorse.]] No, say'my number' – say'my number' – and so we'll see exactly who won this absolutely ridiculous bet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.216.0	Thank you, Mr. Salellas. Mr. Moral Gomez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.217.0	President, for allusions, too, quite direct.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.218.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.219.0	No; look, I understand that I upset him what I said to him in the Faristol, if nothing happens, if I understand. So I'm the only one I'm going to tell you, paraphrasing a person who seems fantastic to you and who doesn't hesitate to vote for it, is: « Fernando, be strong. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.220.0	After the presentation and debate on the Report of the Commission for the Study of Measures to Fight Corruption for Democratic Regeneration, and as the Bureau has granted, with the consent of the parliamentary groups, we have already completed this process. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on respect for international and European law in Western Sahara]] [[401-00024/11]] So let us turn to the next item on the agenda, which will be a declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia to respect the international and European rights in Western Sahara. Ask Mr. Nuet's secretary to read it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.221.0	Thank you, President. « Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on respect for international and European law in Western Sahara. The Parliament of Catalonia makes a call because it respects and complements the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 21 December 2016 that establishes that the association and liberalization agreements between Morocco and the European Union shall not apply to the territories of Western Sahara. The Parliament of Catalonia expresses its concern about the exploitation of the natural resources of Western Sahara, including that of European companies, contrary to international and European law, and recalls that any commercial activity with Western Sahara without the consent of the Sahrawi people is illegal. The Catalonian Parliament calls on European, Spanish and Catalan companies to act in accordance with international and European law, so that the activities that promote the perpetuation of the Moroccan occupation of Western Sahara and the exploitation of its natural resources cease, and urges the authorities to apply the legislation in force, in accordance with the recent judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The Parliament of Catalonia joins the current of solidarity of the Catalan society that demands a political solution, just and lasting that will put in place the conflict of Western Sahara. Palau del Parlament, April 5, 2017. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.222.0	On the basis of the request made by the Government, and in accordance with Article 81.3 of the Rules, the following amendment to the order of the day may be made, in such a way that the current item 9, relating to the Government's inquiry into the female poor, is substantial as set out in the order of the day, and, therefore, the question appearing in item 7, relating to the Government's inquiry into language and power, is substantial in item 9. Can this alteration be approved with your consent? [[Pause.]] The order of the day, therefore, is modified in this sense. [[Asking the Government about the poor woman]] [[300-00151/11]] The next item on the agenda is the question to the Government on the poor women presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. And the presentation... [[Funnel veils]] Mrs. Naomi of the Street. What's going on, that at this point, it's not the council, and maybe we're hoping for it. [[Long break.]] Right now. Mrs. Naomi of the Street, when she wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.223.0	Thank you, President. Consellera, Amelia Valcárcel, already in the year 97 of the last century, wrote: "The feminization of poverty is a fact. The lack of employment opportunities in line with training, another. Harassment, and when it can, violence, another. All this for a group whose only visible defect seems to be that they have not had the expectation of being born with another sex. Twenty years later things don't seem to have changed much. According to the UN, 70_percent of the world's hungry people are women. The gap between men and women trapped in the poverty cycle has continued to widen in recent years. Women earn a little more than 50_per_cent of what men earn on average. The data that reveal several reports on Catalonia presented in this first quarter of the year reflect that we are not escaping these inequalities here either and that they are growing. I'm going to give several examples. According to a study by the Third Social Sector Table and ECAS, the rate of female poverty has increased by 3_per_cent in a single year and 13_per_cent of working women live in poverty. According to the latest report of the Workers' Commissions there are 26_percent of women workers at risk of poverty, as it contrasts with 15_percent of men. This report also reveals that in Catalonia the annual wage gap reaches 26_per_cent. The gross monthly wage of women is five hundred euros lower than that of men. From my parliamentary group, we believe that this issue deserves specific attention in this Parliament, and I would like to take this opportunity to propose the opening of a working group within this Parliament on the feminization of poverty. Conceptual analysis of poverty is not only a lack of monetary resources, but also discrimination or lack of recognition of the excluded population as rights holders. Because the analysis of poverty cannot focus only on the scarce economic resources, but rather on the inadequacy of them to promote capacities, such as economic capacity, capacity for a healthy life, capacity for social interaction, capacity for knowledge and freedom of expansion and thought. We recently had to listen to the cave speech of a MEP who said that women must earn less than men because they are weaker, smaller and less intelligent. In the middle of the 21st century, we must continue to listen to these breasts. And in the middle of the 21st century we still do not achieve parity in any sphere of life. Co-responsibility and conciliation seem like a quimera, and we have seen how the wage gap has increased with the crisis, female unemployment has aberrant rates, let alone job insecurity. Counselor, no one escapes that it is mainly women who assume the tasks of family care. The performance of domestic and family work impoverishes women in time, placing them in a worse position in obtaining and maintaining paid, full-time or indefinite work. On the other hand, the ability to generate men's income is not affected by the paternity or care of dependent persons. These factors, combined, mean greater vulnerability of women at all stages of life. And I say 'at all stages because this causes them to contribute less on average, which means they have less income when they receive an unemployment benefit or a contributory pension. The problem is very complex. That is why we from my group believe it is necessary to open this working group so that we can reorganize our society among all groups according to the needs of people, that it organizes time and work fairly and that it increases people's opportunities. And in this of increasing opportunities, the Administration can do many things. One of them was quoted this morning: free education from zero to three years. We know that the government allocates zero euros to daycare centers, she advises. Why does this government not bet on one of the main tools of conciliation? What solution does your Government intend to give to this situation? I am asking you this because yesterday, in the Committee on Children, the syndic again denounced, at this very parliamentary seat, the reduction of investment in children. Another thing the Administration can do is to ensure that a working woman does not have to decide between her professional career and maternity, due to the pressure exerted by the company not to become pregnant or to the harassment to which some of them are subjected when they request day-to-day reductions after pregnancy. We know that this issue is going through several administrations. That is why my parliamentary group proposed in Congress to increase paternity leave, something that thanks to Citizens has become a right since 1 January this year. But we believe that from Catalonia, too, much can be done to promote co-responsibility. And I will give you an example, which we will include in the motion subsequent to this inquiry: incentives can be created for companies that encourage parental day-to-day reductions for childcare. Counsel, what other measures is the Government taking to foster this co-responsibility? He spoke before education from zero to three years, but in the feminization of care we must also take into account the care of dependent people. Population ageing and the lack of strong dependency policies make families have to cope with the care tasks of our elders. What steps does the Government intend to take in this regard? Because, with the low birth rate we have, we know that it is a problem that, instead of improving, is going to get worse. What long - term measures is the Government taking? The report of the Workers' Commissions reveals that women are overrepresented in less skilled and precarious jobs. Last week, on the women's and ICT day, the president, Carme Forcadell, referred to a survey that reveals that there are girls who leave technology studies on the recommendation of their teachers – in the middle of the 21st century. It is necessary to articulate educational measures that break the negative relationship between gender and technique. And this involves working on curricula to help girls decide their future more freely, breaking the prejudice that the technique is not for women. In this sense, from Citizens we have put forward a motion for a resolution in the Commission of Work for the Government to encourage the enrolment of girls in vocational training degrees where their presence is currently less than 5_per_cent, such as those related to energy, mechanical manufacturing or the maintenance of self-propelled vehicles. Counsel, what educational measures are being articulated to promote women's access to work areas that are only co-opted by men? In a context of severe economic crisis, such as the one we have been through and the one we are still trying to recover from, some social groups suffer more severely from difficulties and make them particularly vulnerable. Women with disabilities appear as a group particularly affected by extreme poverty. According to data from Cermi, they have an extreme poverty rate that triples that of the rest of the population and is a 40_per_cent higher than that of men with disabilities. Persons with disabilities face additional costs, which are presented in the form of additional costs in purchasing goods or basic needs. In addition, women with disabilities have to spend extra time meeting their needs and have limited opportunities for employment and income generation. It should be said that a study by the Cermi points out that the self-employed population with disabilities has a lower poverty rate, even than that of the general population, so one of our questions is whether this Government has any initiative to encourage the entrepreneurship of persons with disabilities, especially women. And also, if your department has any specific plans to combat the poverty of women with disabilities. Another particularly vulnerable group are women in the trans collective. The trans collective faces conflict situations in its day-to-day life, such as using the credit card, traveling, practicing sports, or even using a_bathroom. The process to get a new DNI is long and complicated, and the lack of concordance of your body image and legal name makes you constantly have to be giving explanations. If for this group the employment is especially difficult, in the case of women trans the situation becomes worse, because they are rejected in almost any profession, and underemployment and precariousness are absolute. Entities warn us that trans women pass less unnoticed in society and it is necessary to take steps to eliminate prejudices and inconveniences to hire them. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] They warn us of the need for specific work placement programmes to ensure that no trans women are forced, by any context, to marginality. And marginalization is perhaps the most dangerous form of discrimination, because it is difficult to get out of it. In addition, social actors show concern because there is not yet a proposal on which they can contribute, and one of the demands is the need for a rigorous study on the socio-laboral reality of this group. Does the Department of Treball have any integration programs for this group? A separate and specific chapter deserves the victims of macho violence, but I am running out of time, so I will try to address it in the second intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.224.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. De la Calle. Next is the words of Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Social Affairs, Work and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.225.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. I believe that the subject that you bring today, the question that you bring is very important, and that we are totally in agreement with the idea and everything that you have explained to your question. I'll go and explain what we do from the government, possibly in a short time, as it happened to you, so I'll try to go by order. I think the first thing we all have to do is define what's poor. And poor means, as defined, the absence of resources and capabilities sufficient to cover the needs that enable us to achieve a certain level of well-being. Now, there are multiple factors that condition these possibilities. You said some of them: the loss of power acquired; the place of work; the very habitation; the disability or chronic illness; dependence; single parenthood; male violence, as in society's iceberg; limitations per advanced age; sensillaryism; war, in the case of refugees; migration, also mentioned here... These are factors, but I think we need to speak clearly – and we need to speak clearly – and the word..., the cause we all have in mind: the cause is patriarchy, as well as the mental environment that organizes our society. And it's the society we live in. And, therefore, until we change the ideas of patriarchy attached to society we will not achieve equal opportunities. And equal opportunities for men and women will only be achieved if we have that key word, which is the sorority between women, which will allow us to move forward more directly. We don't have any magic solutions, I did, but we do have indicators and studies, and that's what we've been doing from the same department that captivates him. For example, what you were commenting on, that of the wage bracket, is a report that we were going to submit for the first time this year, around March 9, because we were objectively told what is the wage bracket that we had in Catalonia and in reference to changing policies and being able to move forward more directly towards equality. And you said it: a 26_per_cent; in fact, the highest wage rate since 2008. Therefore, this will serve as a reference for policy making. If we don't know where they are, we don't know where to go. And using different studies, so far, makes us speak with different vocabulary and in different ways. In fact, when we used what we did so far, which was the risk of poverty in Catalonia, we saw that it had changed by genera. And when we looked at Britain as a whole, we found that there were years that were higher in men than in women, looking at taxes, for example, that increased the population of construction and that made the data vary. Therefore, if we do not have the evolutionary series, as we have done now, to have clear reports, from one place, we cannot achieve it. The middle income has risen but it continues to have this inequality. So, what have we done? From these data, palliative measures, I would say that they are the ones who have brought us so far to work, and we have them, in the department, but what we want are transformative measures. I can talk about some policy measures: for example, current minimum income data, with 7,030 single-parent families holding and at these times, there are many more females than males. Therefore, it is a help for the female part but always a palliative measure. Another, for the situation of poor women, is the injection of benefit money that we have given on the subject of poor energy. When we started paying for help in poor energy, we also agreed that most of us are headed to families where they are women. Therefore, it is another palliative measure that serves us to face this inequality of women. The other is the resolutions, the compliment of the resolutions that have come out here in Parliament. I can say that the resolutions of the plenary on social emergence, on this subject that was given, for example in 3.1.13: "To take measures to support women who have suffered abuse and abuse, including the extension of the offer of places in the centre of assembly with health care services, legal assistance and counselling, which we speak about which directly concerns us as the department, we are carrying it out, making more room for the centres of assembly. We have twelve new seats in the school's replacement service and we have awarded nine seats – and also contracted – for people with difficulty; but above all for this iceberg, which we are all against..., which brings us the patriarchal society, which is male violence. Set aside the Work Inspection Performance Plan. Tell him that in order to eradicate inequality between men and women we are already active in the campaigns of this 2017 wage discrimination. Thus, five concrete campaigns: one on wage discrimination, one on temporary contracts, one on form contracts, one on part time and another on overtime campaigns. All these campaigns, with a general look. But I believe that the important step that I was commenting on, of transformative measures. And here, the government's commitment to social policy is clear. And as for the programs we have from the department, all the actions will come out with a gender perspective: that of support for families; that of attention to immigration; that of promotion of personal autonomy; that of equality and respect for diversity; that of social inclusion and struggle against the poor; that of attention to childhood and adolescence, with youth policies; that of equality, and quality of labour integration, in concrete terms, and to entrepreneurship, which you also have in essence, and entrepreneurial development. All these programs... there will be performances and we will prioritize the look of gender in each of them. Therefore, 2,872_millions is the assumption we have for 2017 for all these programs. And the first indication is that there must be exclusive planning for each of these programs with a gender perspective. For example, in a very concrete way, in the implementation of social inclusion plans and the fight against the poor, 20_millions go directly to families; of these, 1.2_millions, to scholarships for children and young people from vulnerable families who, as they normally say, the first person in this family is a woman, so that this will guarantee equal opportunity for us in accessing education activities and, in particular, to the reader; 3.4_millions for families with children in a situation of vulnerability, and 5.1_millions, that these will pass them to local authorities, so that the contract will contain emergency aid also for single-parent families who are headed by the woman, to the vast majority. To promote, therefore, equal opportunities is the clear objective. They also know that, from the very beginning, what we've done is a general direction of equality, within the department, on the side of Treball, and this general direction of equality is exactly what we've been saying. It has increased the presuppositional endowment. The year 2015 is spent 60,000_euros for equality policies on women in work; 2016 is spent 95,000, and the assumption we have this 2017, for equality in work, is 500,000_euros for action directly on equal opportunities for women and men in the field of work. What do we plan to do in the performances? Assessment and support of businesses and organizations to implement measures and equality plans; face-to-face and online training in all processes of mainstreaming equality in organizations [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – at these times, in 2016, 1,100 directors and representatives of workers and workers in Catalonia have already brought it to completion – and nine tools and instruments to support the implementation of equality plans. That, in the field of work. So... we'll continue with what we've been talking about, with people with disabilities and with people who are migrating; what we've been predicting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.226.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. There's a word for the street lady.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.227.0	Thank you. Counselor, well, on the subject of macho violence, as I said in my previous speech, deserves a separate chapter, because it socially isolates the victims. The subjection of women to men is aimed at controlling them and their contacts with the world outside the home, reducing the quality of life of women and their social skills, reducing their abilities to participate in activities outside the home, including the possibility of having an income and being part of community and social activities in general. The fact that women have paid work can be an element of protection from violence. You mentioned a proposal that was approved at the Social Emergency Plenary, it was a proposal from Citizens, and between..., well, among the things in which emphasis was placed, in addition to the places in the reception centers, health care and so on, it was about socio-occupational reintegration. And I am aware, counselor, that the Institut Català de les Dones belongs to Mrs. Munté's office. That's why I was interested in you talking... asking him about something that he did compete with his counselor. And it was: what specific programmes are being implemented for the social reintegration of victims of male violence? Because last week's reports of compliance with what we were talking about, of compliance with that Social Emergency Plenary, did not mention the state of compliance with the workplace, so I would like you to be able to give us, today, the specific plans that exist for victims of gender-based violence. And if there were, then, whether they have been enlarged since the celebration of the Plenary, as agreed in it. He was also talking about the minimum income relief measures, and a report that Red Cross submitted a few days ago... so, I think last week, he was talking about that 32_per_cent of those served by the Red Cross because of poverty have jobs. And that report also showed that in relation to inequalities in opportunities, the feminization of poverty must be highlighted, and it gave a figure: 23.1 of the families in poverty were single-parent families made up of a single woman with children. So, if we take the Equality Act, we go to Article 1(7), which talks about promoting policies aimed at redressing women's historical deficit in the redistribution of wealth, it talks about combating the feminization of poverty with special attention to situations of greatest vulnerability. In Article 3, too, the principles of public action in paragraph 7 refer to social justice and the redistribution of wealth. "Public policies must primarily protect women with dependent children and prioritize the fight against the feminization of poverty in the distribution of wealth. With the Equality Act in hand... I know it's a bit repetitive, but we'd like to know why your government doesn't want to match the guaranteed income of citizenry with the income of part-time work of poor women with children. It has been requested by the promoter group, Caritas, the Catalan social welfare organizations, have requested it by many entities. What we'd like to know is if you can..., if there's any chance of reaching an agreement on this, right? , that guaranteed income is compatible with income from work, especially for this particular group. Okay. You talked to me, didn't you? , of the structural problems of patriarchy. That is why we, as the problem is complex, want to reiterate the need for this working group to be opened at parliamentary level, which will help us, as I said earlier, to reorganise our society according to the needs of people. And, well, finally, I would like to express my appreciation for the association we have in Catalonia and for all those entities that have often filled the lack of official statistics and which, moreover, with their activism help to make visible a poverty that looks less than male. Male poverty usually ends up more with the person going to shelters or simply sleeping or living on the street. And women's poverty is an invisible poverty, it's a quiet poverty, it's the poverty of those who strive to feed their children and usually stay locked up at home. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.228.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. De la Calle. Then there's the word "adviser."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.229.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman, we are in complete agreement; I mean, we... on the part of the government, there will be no inconvenience. I understand that it is a matter of Parliament, and therefore they are already debating it in Parliament, but I think it is important to be able to talk about women in all spheres. And, therefore, in the area of poverty more than ever, and in the feminization of some more partial jobs and some more difficult jobs too, because we make it clear, for example, that migrant women the first access they have to society is work and many times it is not the work they want. Therefore, we would be totally in agreement. To tell him that another collection – which, for example, has not spoken to the native and I think it is also important to talk about it – is the collection of disabled women. The collection of disabled women are often women who find themselves excluded and, therefore, we must do our utmost to help them in the world of employment. The first thing we've done is that the Labour Inspectorate, with action on demand, not on demand, but with planned action, precisely completes and reviews all those enterprises that do not complete the Law of Social Integration of Lysmi, of the disabled, because they have 2_percent of the people and we don't listen to each other in alternative measures as it could be, that are easy to do them, but we insist that it is much better to be able to hire people with disabilities. And, in this case, the women are very favored, without forgetting that the administrations are 5_per_cent. Therefore, the pedagogy and the constant of the Labour Inspectorate, in this case, we will do so. But, besides, today I can announce that, according to all the entities you were talking about, we can start talking about the new model of social inclusion, the new model of work that we will do, the model that supports insertion for people with disabilities. This morning we came to an agreement with all entities, both employers and entities, for a new model of insertion that is based on seven lines: support with respect to the person and concept of independent life; territorial and coherent distribution to all centres; seek to protect people who are in non-assisted spaces– and here there are many women, for the numbers we have–; take into account the competitiveness of businesses as well as the important element– therefore, professionalism and productivity–; promote quality and continuity workplaces, both in TECs and in the insertion into the ordinary business, and that fits in as a whole model according to the needs of people between and outside the business. Therefore, one part, the work protected; a work, a model similar to català, beyond the model that exists in the State, which has many deficiencies and many difficulties. That here I would like to remind you that we are the only community until now that we have and are making money; we have no proper funds, that at these times we have 33,4_million funds, a contribution that this year has already passed from this 33, that we have reached 43_million. Therefore, we believe ourselves to be as right as to make this model pro-catalyte. All the entities agreed, and today we have been in a meeting, so that from here we can work together and obviously get the model for the catal of special work centres, to say the least, but at the same time we do not leave the insertion to the ordinary enterprise. Therefore, we have country politics and women in our country have everything they deserve, as it has to be: equality, equality with men and women. You were also talking to me about measures for the insertion of women who have had gender-based violence problems. Here we are also working from the Department of Families, who knows where we have the care centers of people, of women who have suffered gender-based rape. What we've done is a nine-seat contract, as it used to be; putting a new specialized intervention service and a new technical finder, very important, that was claimed for all entities, feminists, in particular; the incorporation of emergency collection services into the program contract. But, besides, they can have direct access to help there is in the summer, for example, for infants. For example, this year I can already say that in the "Creating as a family" there have been women with gender-based violence who were in the center and, therefore, have been distributed. Or, respect the guidance service and family counseling, we've made a step aside because we can take more women. Or the foundation of maintenance and compensation guarantees, which we have from the department, that 95_per_cent is destined for gifts to which their companies, after a separation, do not pass them the minimum benefit, and, therefore, we advance it from the Family Department. What I want to say to you, as I said before, the look of genere is clear...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.230.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.231.0	... has always been done since the department, we will do it and we will intensify it more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-05-3301.232.0	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you all very much. They suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine o'clock.
