ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.1.0	The session begins. Good morning to everyone and welcome and welcome to this first session of the year 2017. [[Greetings to a new Member]] First of all, I would like to greet the new Member of Parliament who joined us today, Mrs Ángels Ponsa, of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Welcome. [[Greetings.]] I am sure that, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Assumption Laïlla, of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes, has delegated her vote to the chairman of her group, Mr Jordi Turull. I would also like to say to you that, in the end of the control session, it will be a minute of silence as a show of condolence on the basis of the two rural agents murdered this week and that this late, in the end of the sixth point of the order of the day, we will give reading to the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the basis of the forty anniversary of the murders of Atocha. Let's start the order of the day. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is included in the Ple's folder. In accordance with Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning. In accordance with the request made by the Government and the conformity of the parliamentary groups concerned, the... No. He was proposing an alteration of the order of the day, but I see that the Romeva Councillor has arrived. Therefore, we do not alter the order of the day and continue with the order of the day. [[Ask the Government about the latest external action]] [[310-00160/11]] The first point of the order of the day are asked to the Government. The first question to the Government is for Mr. Juan Milián, of the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group, and it is about the later actions in external action. [[Widow's remorse.]] From the People's Party, I'm sorry. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.2.0	Thanks for the cheering.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.3.0	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.4.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.5.0	The first question is about the later actions in external action.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.6.0	Thank you, President. Mr Puigdemont was here yesterday in Brussels and, as the last time, he did not get anything for Catalonia nor did he meet with any community authority; he just went to talk about a 9-N bis, all self-consumption. So far, no novelty; it is easy to make a mess in a room of the European Parliament. The problem is that, with a lack of assistance and the inability to find three hundred independent Catalans in Brussels, they decided to go with the claque from here and paid more than 120,000 euros of public money to international media to advertise on the same day of the conference. In these announcements, Mr. Romeva self-proclaimed Foreign Secretary in different languages. They don't know, but look, for me, as if you want to believe Lluís XIV, the Sun King; the question is that his Versailles we pay him among all Catalans while you are not completing your goals in sanitation, education or security. Mr Romeva, the question is very clear: how many euros did the Catalans cost the conference and the publicity? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.7.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Milián. Counselor Raül Romeva responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.8.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Milián, I, like I have the fortune that was also in this conference, and therefore I was able to see it in the first person – you weren't there because you were supposed to be in another coffee shop, maybe in such a café Pepe, in a bar Pepe that these days was also the protagonist of another issue that you also have a lot to say – so I can tell you, I can tell you, I can tell you that the attendance was absolutely great; after two years in the European Parliament I have the absolute certainty that it was an act with a singular, unusual presence, for what it did to the interest that generated all the explanation that we were able to make, in a _marc of total and absolute normality, that is that it is that the parliamentarians do, that dialogue, that is to argue. And, therefore, all this because you have people making arguments about the table, and that you try, with argucies, absolutely, I think that hard to understand for anyone who has a minimum of sensitivity and democratic culture..., in the end it turned against it. You say we don't learn. I know hard; it's that those who don't understand, don't learn, don't value, aren't able to hear in whose reality they live, are you. I assure you that the people who yesterday were able to listen to the speech of the president, the vice president and myself know perfectly well that there is a reality here that they will have to face sooner or later. I invite them to do the same – I invite them to do the same – because otherwise those who will lose the train of rationality and common sense will be you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. The word has the deputy, Mr. Milián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.10.0	Counselor, I asked him about the cost of the conference and the publicity and he didn't answer me. I don't know if you're a Foreign Minister; what's clear is that you're not a Transparency Advisor. It's the money, it's the bad money, counselor, but it's also the image they're giving from Catalonia, announcing that they're a post-autonomous government, but they're a post-truth government. They know that post-truth is a euphemism of lies, deception, fraud, process. This is the process, a way of simulating that they are creating a state when they really just want to stay as the most well-paid policies of all Spain. It is not true that you are Minister of Foreign Affairs, even though you make an explanation; it is not true that delegates are ambassadors, even though they cover more than a minister; it is not true that Mr Altafaj is a permanent representative before the European Union, and then I will prove it; they are pure post-truth. And I'm not just saying it, I'm also saying media communication with Politico or The Economist. I have even told the whole spokesman of the European Parliament, who has just publicly accused them of manipulating reality. And it is that you, with certain delusions of greatness, have attacked the European Parliament and accused it of counter-programming them, when, since disembarkation, to Brussels, everyone knew that yesterday was celebrating the reception of the diplomatic body; at least the permanent representatives of truth, not his, of stone, that does not know what happens to Brussels. They have spent a fortune and they have only managed to get the European Parliament to manipulate the titles of manipulators, which we already know here. You can't be proud of your management, Mr. Counselor. Will he acknowledge his mistake, ask forgiveness and cease the false permanent representative in Brussels or speak of the People's Party and Madrid, as he always does? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.11.0	Thank you, Mr. Milián. Counselor responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.12.0	Look, you don't care about the cost. At all times, for the cost it is not concerned; like all things that we do, it is public and it will have it on the government's website, like all things that we do, because here there is transparency, not in other governments of which you know something. But beyond that, if you want, we can talk about the cost, what the Spanish diploma costs. [[remorse of the voice]] , to prevent debate, debate, representation of what it means at these times both citizens and citizens to pay their taxes also to the Spanish State. And if you want to talk about this cost, you can talk about what the captives cost, for example, to the Vatican, to the Vatican embassy; you can talk about what the Spanish embassies cost; you can talk about what the residents of the Spanish ambassadors cost, and about the functions that these ambassadors have at the time of preventing what you do in democracy is the most normal of the world, which is to talk, which is to talk and which is to put arguments on the table. The day I understand it – the day I understand it – maybe we'll start speaking the same language; while those who don't understand it are you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the infrastructures of the metropolitan area of Barcelona]] [[310-00156/11]] Second question to the Government, on the infrastructures of the metropolitan area of Barcelona, formulated for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. The word has Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.14.0	Thank you, President. Councillor Rull, in September of last year explained that the Government was working on a proposed financial restructuring of Metro Line 9 to gradually put into operation the central tram between Sagrera and the University Zone. A few days ago, too, before the year ended, Mr. Junqueras, Mayor Colau and you yourself announced an agreement on the Barcelona City Council to finance the construction of two stations, Foneria and Foc Cisell, not all stations, from line 10 of the metro. He wasn't talking about what was going on with the Provençana and Ildefons Cerdà stations at the Hospital. There doesn't seem to be a date for opening these two stations. The mayor of the Hospitallet, Mrs. Marín, complained, quite rightly, and you said that the government would be in charge. It would seem to us, in the Socialist Group, a heaviness towards the Hospital that you see passing the metro, the citizens, and not the one that can take. We would like to know if they have already advanced the refinement of the central tram, if they have already found, in the presupposition, the resources for the stations of the Hospitallet of line 10 of the metro.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.15.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.16.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, you know it perfectly well, what is the government's understanding of not just foresight but concrete facts. I remember that about a year ago, when the tram from line 9 of the metro to the airport was inaugurated, we said a couple of things: u, we don't stop the works of the tunnel, and we haven't stopped them, which makes them more close to the stations of Barcelona and the stations of the Hospitallet. We're working now... we have three commitments. The first compromise, that the year 2018 can enter into operation the two stations of Barcelona, with an agreement with the Assembly of Barcelona ; two, that there is the smallest possible gap between the entry into operation of these stations of Barcelona and the two of the Hospitallet, Cerdà and Provençana, and, three, the refinement of the central part of the line 9, which is the one that gives sense to the mobility in the joint of the system. These are three commitments that we are..., we have acquired, we are working, not improvised, as we have responded to this Parliament will be the first to know them, to know them and to evaluate them properly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mr. Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.18.0	Well, it would seem to us that the stations, these four stations... I'm no longer talking about the rest, but these four stations are not in use at the same time. It would seem to us a heavy head to the city of the Hospitallet. You said, the central tram on line 9 is a phonetic tram, so it connects the junction of the subway and the mobility flows of public transport. We want to know the real intentions of the government respect the reinitiation of this important infrastructure. And you, better than anyone else, can explain it to us, as in your conversation and union portfolio stage, when you were at the stand, the government facilitated it, to you and your technical advisors, all the information, all the projects, all the bidding processes, all the financing models. And, therefore, what we want is for you to explain the calendar from then on. I will ask you for a few more commitments, which you have to see with public transport. The year you see, 2018, will you be able to run the works of the C-245 VAO bus? Do you have plans to make a VAO bus from north to south to C-31? I, speaking of public transport and stations, do you think of improving the park and ride of the railway stations of the Generality? – I don't know if you know that we already have hard problems with some of these parking lots, especially the Hospital and the Sant Boi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.19.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. The word has the advisor, Mr. Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.20.0	Thank you, President. With regard to the concrete questions of the end, yes to all; yes, we are working in this area. In some cases we do it alone, in others we do it with the metropolitan area; for example, the bus-VAO lane of 245. Second element. You've been yours today, and I agree, and you've been careful, and I appreciate it. The day of the appearance of the presuppositions was not so much, of suau. And the day we heard Mr. Collboni intervened and referred to line 9 and talking about line 9 as, let's say, a piece management done for the government of Junts for the Yes, I called it sarcasm. Yes; there are certain political forces that must be of extreme prudence at the time of judging the government's action, basically because we are trying to straighten out and redirect to what someone else, who is treacherously part of his own political formation, has left absolutely unanswered. What's the problem with subway line 9? The problem with line 9 of the metro is that we spend 400_million euros to pay concessions for the stations that will be completed by the year 2042. We refinance it, or we'll be able to release some of those resources, or we'll never finish it, and you won't be able to hear it. This is our priority. And I guarantee you we'll do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.21.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the improvement of employability by means of accreditation and professional qualification]] [[310-00157/11]] Third question to the Government, on the improvement of employability by means of professional accreditation and qualification. The question is posed by Mr Pol Gibert, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.22.0	Thank you, President. Good day, members of the government, deputies and deputies. The entry of the year brought us the presentation, on behalf of the advisors of Work and Education, of the first Pla d'accreditation et qualification professionales de Catalunya. Good news, sense of doubt, for a lot of people. The delay in their presentation is obvious; it is a planned plan for 2016, 2017 and 2018, and they present it at the beginning of 2017. So, you see, on the government's list of failings, as well as the FP law. In any case, Counselor Bassa, once we look at the plan and its background, we would like to ask you the following question: do you think that accreditation and professional qualification can be a useful tool to improve the employability of Catalonia's stands?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.23.0	Thank you, Mr. Gibert. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.24.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. Obviously; if not, we would not, we firmly believe that this represents the better of people's employability, but also the better of equal opportunities. We need people who are well-believing, we need people who trust the place of work where they are, and that is why, together with the Department of Education and also with the Catalan Council of Vocational Training, a plan of accreditation, as you said.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.25.0	Thank you, Constellera Bassa. There's a word from Mr. Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.26.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, do you know how many credentials were agreed during the process of the law? I could answer it from Mrs. Rigau, surely, but I'll do it myself today. It will be agreed 300,000 accreditations– 300,000 –, 100,000 each year. And what do you present to us? A plan to believe less than 8,000. The difference is abysmal. And we give him a plan because it's the name the government gave him. What we have before us is a collection of actions, many of them that we have done before, but that we are packing them up right now, putting a name on it, and what we're doing is making a press wheel and announcing it to the drums and silverware, or that it's late and bad. Moreover, they return to punctual calls, when the law establishes an open and permanent system in which they can be bonded whenever they want to stop and stop and other people, and with no places limited once a year. Counselor, Catalonia has grown to 350,000 without recognized professional training, many of them with experience and knowledge acquired during many years of work, but they have never officially had a recognition. Don't you think the certification of these acquaintances would help you find a job? If you can include in your resume a certificate that you know of, it is obvious that this will help you find work. Besides, at a time when precariousness is the bread of every day, wouldn't it be a good option to be able to increase the qualification of the ups and downs and opt for better jobs? It seems obvious that it is, Counselor. You're making a determined bet to equip the stock with better tools. We're not giving anything to these people, we just need to recognize what they know right now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.27.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gibert. There's the word Bassa Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.28.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Gibert, I see that the plan has not been read well, and the plan has not been read well because, as you said, accreditations have been made over time. In fact, we have allocated a lot of money, therefore, from the Department of Work for many years, as you very well said. But a plan had never been made, and a plan represents three important novelties. First: that accreditations can be made at the length of the year, not only depending on the agreements that are made with social agents or economic agents for a short time and, therefore, only at that time can accreditations be made. Second: the methodology changes, approaches the work place to observe and the same accreditors go to the work place; and third: a stable service, which will give constant information to the work offices, which is not ugly until now. To remind you : this 2016 the SOC has allocated 100_million euros to FP, 67 especially for training actions of certificate of professionalism. Therefore, we know very well what it is, but I had never planned it, but it is done year by year. This one, for the first time, we will have a plan with good planning of the three years, as you said, because it will also know that with the topic of dependence at the end of 2017 everyone has to be accredited. We have four thousand people left to believe and we urgently need them to believe; because, if not, the September of 2017 are perilous of their places of work. In matters of occupation, we are working for all bands: for the best of the occupation with the people who are working; because the unemployed people find a place of work worthy and because everyone can change sectors when necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.29.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the campaign for the estimation of the reading «6 years ago. Sort a Book]] [[310-00161/11]] Fourth question to the Government, on the campaign for the estimation of reading « Fas six years. Sort a book. The question is posed by Ms Teresa Vallverdú, from the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.30.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, we start from the absolute conviction that the welfare state is incomplete without the fact that culture is considered a basic right. We believe that the citizens must be able to access without going through the street and that I must stop having holes in them that condemn those who find themselves in a lack of opportunity. Policies must be geared towards providing everyone with the opportunity to access culture. Understanding culture as an element of social cohesion in a different society makes it evident that it needs to be placed at the centre of politics, because it is also at the centre of the life of the city and allows it to progress in equal opportunities. Both in his appearance before the Committee on Culture in November and in his intervention in the debate on the presuppositional section, he focused his speech on explaining that the policies of his department aim to increase the social dimension of culture and that they make a clear bet to facilitate access to culture as the basic element of the welfare state. Therefore, we share that access to culture must be universal; we need to make a culture accessible to everyone, because if we want to build a modern state, we need to build a cult state. In order to achieve this objective, it is essential that basic cultural contents are accessible to everyone and that the level of income or the geographical situation is not a barrier to cultural consumption. In this line, the Department of Culture has put the emphasis on various campaigns, such as the continuity of the "Apropa culture" programme, an initiative that brings culture down to people at risk of social exclusion; or the "Scene 25" programme, promoting music and the performing arts among young Catalans between divided and twenty-five years to get used to cultural consumption, or the "Six years old" campaign. Sort a book, to stimulate reading habits between children and children. The first two programs are not us, but this last one is. And that's why, while helping to create a personal library is already, in itself, a good news, we would like to be explained how this program worked in this first edition; how it affects the creation of reading habits and whether there is a direct relationship between those who take advantage of the program and the family reader, because what would be interesting about a program is that, in addition to creating new readers, we also have, for example, new families to read. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.31.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vallverdú. Reply by Mr Santi Vila, Councillor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.32.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, Your Honor. Illustrious Member of Parliament, well, actually this initiative has been going on for six years. Sorting a book is one of the novelties, huh? , that in this extraordinary legislature, therefore, it was possible to incorporate in the center of the policies of the department, to favor the habit of reading in general, eh? Access to reading, in fact, is access to the combination of curiosity for culture, for society, and goes with their personal, civic, and collective commitment. In this sense, I recall that 66 per cent of the citizens of Catalonia say that they usually read. This could be said in denial: more than 33 percent of our citizens recognize that they never read. This campaign went to the origin; in short, to prestige the habit of reading, to stimulate it, according to the Gremi de Libreters. You think that roughly 32,000 children – that means about 40 percent – of the potential under conditions of going to collect this book they did. And even more relevant: 35 percent of the families – of the couples or of the seas that accompanied these children to seek that book – admit that it was the first time to their life that a bookstore would climb. So that 35 percent of these families say that this campaign was the first time that a bookstore was set up, confirms the intent to make these types of initiatives. Some initiatives, however, that we have to frame at the National Reading Promotion Board and that we will update and present again this spring. Indeed, this is a four-year plan, which has already run out this past 2016 and which is absolutely necessary to be incorporated. Among other things, because promoting the readability means reinvesting in the generation of nine libraries, it means reinvesting in the renewal of the policy of purchasing books in these libraries, it means encouraging a greater number of municipalities readers, this means compromises with these types of initiatives; it means, in short, stimulating programs like the Library, etc. In short, a concrete campaign, but that must be framed in the national platform for promoting the habit of reading, convinced that if we have citizens and citizens readers we will have citizens and educated citizens and cults. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.33.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about trade union agreements in the field of Justice Administration]] [[310-00162/11]] Five questions to the Government on trade union agreements in the field of the Administration of Justice. The question is posed by Mr. Jordi Orobig, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.34.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. MPs, MPs, Councillor Mundó, will leave me, first of all, to start with a wish, and it is that his department recovers normality after the assault that suffered his from the council this past week. I'm sure that the cooperation of the Spanish police, which, for whom I have knowledge, has been offered immediately, even before you publicly transcend fer, will be of great help to the resolution of this matter, or not, eh? That said, it is common in this Parliament, already in plenary, already in the Commission of Justice, that some of the groups of this chamber, mainly the majority of the opposition, question the suitability of the management policy of the staff who end their department. Among other accusations, and in an obvious and premeditated manoeuvre of confusion, it has been attributed to his department, repeatedly, the fact of having renounced five hundred staff places by opposition, when the reality is that these places, we all know, were not new, but, in any case, facilitated the consolidation of seats by part of staff per day of interest. Today, the percentage of staff involved in the Department of Justice, stands at 40_percent of the staff, a situation which we all hear is not desirable and which you have always maintained, and from here your position respects the call for objections, which must be combated by mediating the call for competitions opposition, both to consolidate places in the day of today's interim as to fight against one of the great problems affecting our judicial system, that is to say, the mobility of staff, which obviously has remarkable consequences in the quality and agility of the service, and also, as we have shown more than once, for the treatment and use of the Catalan language in the field of justice. Recently, the representatives of the majority unions in the field of justice have signed an agreement, the first in eleven years, with the secretary general and relations with the administration of justice of their department in areas such as the reordering of staff, changes in staff hours, which, among others, has involved an increase in hours of public service, and the articulation of a common front, integrated by the government and the unions, before the Spanish government to reduce the interinitiation that affects justice staff from 40 to 10 per cent in terms of five years, with the aim of calling for contests opposition – that is, the option that has always defended you – to the detriment of mere opposition. Depending on these circumstances, it is our interest to know the value of the Government and, in this case, the Councillor of Justice, of the agreement between the Department of Justice and the majority unions in the field of justice to increase the stability of the staff and efficiency of the courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.35.0	Thank you, Mr. Orobtig. Reply by Mr. Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.36.0	Thank you very much. Good morning, President. Good morning, Mr. Congressman. First of all, I believe that it is a good thing that we have reached an agreement with all the unions in the field of Justice Administration; an agreement that must be used to improve Justice Administration and to manage it more effectively and more effectively. And I think it's very good that the unions are also involved in this challenge and we're doing it with concrete agreements; concrete agreements like you already pointed out. The first is to ensure that we are on the road to reducing the number of users and ensuring the stability of the staff of the Justice Administration and also to reduce the mobility of these staff, because it is a factor that does not actually contribute to the better functioning of the Justice Administration. A decision that was certainly very welcome, because when the Department of Justice explained that it did not want to insist on a formula in which, in practice, it was a year ago, leading to an increase in the number of persons involved, and on the part of some groups of this chamber it was practically accused of having had the seven Biblical plagues, which is shown to be that in the end, explaining the things with data and rigour, it is understood that the solution that we proposed to boost the competition opposition is probably the best way to reduce this constant increase in staff interest that is produced. The other of the agreements is what you have to see with the expansion of public service hours in the courts, and to reduce expenses, for example, in some of you when you unify all times in all courts in Catalonia, and not that you each make a difference. This will save us 1_million euros, at least, in security expenses from this rationalization. And the third of the elements is the one that has to do with the proposal to reorder workers from the Justice Administration to locate those workers that may have served today in courts where the workloads are lower than others, to place them in courts where the workloads are more important. This agreement, which was also used by some groups to make us say things we didn't say, in the sense that we wanted to take personally, actually, this was not the proposal, because the proposal was, precisely, rationalizing the effects that we have. And so we did, and we did, fortunately, with the unions' agreement. I am sure that the dialogue in the presentation of the data, the rigour, the proposals are the end result, and I am happy that the unions are also involved in the operation of the Administration of Justice showing that we are able to reach agreements with the unions of the Administration of Justice, as we are also doing with the penitentiary unions and all the others who have to see the department.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.37.0	Thank you, Counsellor Mundó. [[Ask the Government about the State's refusal to pass Rodalies from Catalonia]] [[310-00163/11]] Sisena asks the Government about the refusal of the State to pass Rodalies from Catalonia. The question is posed by Mrs Meritxell Roigé, of the Groupe Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.38.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. Conseller Rull, last week presented to us the premise of the Department of Territories and Sustainability; a premise that is based primarily on prioritizing a public transport of quality with a clear and firm objective that is to guarantee the citizens' right to effective mobility with ample territorial and hourly coverage; a premise that, as well as the limitations of assumptions and the mark in which we move, grows a 12_per_cent, and where its most important bulk, more than 58_per_cent, is destined for public transport, a public transport that was recorded in 2016. And this record of passengers also coincides with a record of Generality contributions to the transportation system. And while these efforts have been made since the Government of Catalonia, we must present more than ever the abandonment that we are patenting on behalf of the State, which has lowered its contribution from 29_per_cent in 2008 to the current 14_per_cent. And that's still being painted day by day by road users. We've had nine incidents, we're late for R14, R15, R16; very unfortunate. Therefore, it is obvious that, even if we manage our network of rolling stock for an evil accepted at the time – and we also have to remember here – we do not have the capital, we do not have the decision-making capacity and we do not have the infrastructure. And unfortunately, years passed by, and we find that the State is still unfulfilled by what is near it. The recent visit of the Minister of Foment again manifests the disconnection of the State to our country. And so, while the president, the whole government, the local world, the joint civil society is asking that this move be made, this integral transfer of the entire rolling system to the Government of the Generality, because it is the only way to guarantee a good functioning of the service, the minister of the Serna the only one who came to promise us was a new roll plan. Because from the Minister's visit we could only find a single compromise: a compromise to have finished the crossing of the Via Tarragona-Vandellòs, a bridge that began fifteen years ago. It's been 15 years since we've been painting these works. And, as you know, counselor, many years ago we've been waiting for you, because this would allow us, above all the users of southern Catalonia, to have thirty-five minutes of road haulage. And that is very important, precisely, to the lines R15 and R16, which are the lines of the lands of the Jews and, therefore, are the most unpunished in the country. Therefore, counselor, I see this attitude of the minister, I see this new refusal to pass the rolling service to the Government of the Generalitat when we see that when we manage it from here, as happens with Railways of the Generalitat, things work, we want to ask him who his father is respecting this new refusal of the State.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.39.0	Thank you, Mrs. Roigé. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.40.0	Thank you, Madam President. Congresswoman... Valuation? Very negative – very negative. Fixi's, when Minister De la Serna, with good, good attitude, said that he did not want to delay the transfer, that it is not a demand of the Government of Catalonia, but that it is a demand very widely shared by the country, very widely shared by this Parliament, very widely shared by civil society, by the municipal world, used two arguments: a first argument is that it is a network of general state interest. They were also a network of general interest of the State the railways of the narrow way, the railways that today are Railways of the Generalitat of Catalonia, both the line of the Vallès and the line Llobregat-Anoia. Today it would be impossible with the People's Party government until the end of the transition to the early 1980s. Therefore, I want to say that we have condemned these two lines, which, at these times, are very competitive, very efficient lines, to hold the same conditions that the rolling system has. I second, says: "The important thing is management, not ownership. Yes, no; what's the problem is that the ownership of the State is the result of bad management in Catalonia. And a concrete mismanagement for the people, for the citizens of Catalonia. This is the theme and this is the basic idea that we need to be able to move. Just give them a given: the line of the people, in a year, since it was assumed by the Generalitat of Catalonia, we have increased the number of users in a very substantial way. At these times we already have the definitive data around 80-90 percent more users, with a much higher level of satisfaction. Therefore, these are concrete facts. And the minister, what did he propose to us? He told us: "We'll make a new roll plan. Dialogue. It's just that with the Spanish State, in terms of infrastructure, we talked about everything, we talked about everything. The problem is the dialog inefficiencies. We know exactly what's there. Because we don't have a new set of wheels, we have to be pleased that the Spanish State has already agreed with Catalonia. There is a outstanding debt of 4,800_million euros. Are these the figures proposed by the Generalitat de Catalunya? No, they're dades. They agree that the various governments of the State have been bought. Therefore, less plans and more concrete action has actually been taken. And we will again insist: when things come from here, they are better for the benefit of the people of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.41.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Rull. [[Ask the Government about the congruence of the Government of Catalonia's Law of Presumables Project for 2017 with the Pla Director of Development Cooperation 2015-2018]] [[310-00159/11]] Seven questions to the Government, on the congruence of the Project of the Law of Presumables of the Generalitat of Catalonia for 2017 with the Pla director of cooperation to the development 2015-2018. The question is posed by Mr. Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.42.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Counsellor Romeva. Know that they have our support in the act of pedagogy that the Government carried out yesterday in Brussels. [[Greetings.]] I turn to the question. The world of cooperation in Catalonia is concerned after knowing the Project of Presupposition that the Government has presented. You know that the world of Catalan cooperation brings to its spaces a terrible management of the last governments of the Generality, that they were about to make practically disappear to Catalonia the policies of cooperation in development. But there was hope, there was hope in this government, and especially in you, as the new counselor of this matter. What can you say, counselor, to the world of Catalan cooperation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.43.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Reply by Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.44.0	Thank you. In the first place, thank her for the support of the act. This honors them, because, obviously, we are talking about a fact that does not only occupy the government or a group, but that occupies society in its conjunction, and therefore, I repeat, I am very grateful for this support. To the specific question you ask me: the cooperation sector has many reasons to be concerned. It's been many years since he's painted a situation, absolutely, I think, unwarranted from many points of view, but, more than that, worrying, for what he does to the ability they have to do his job, a job that, more than that, is growing. Therefore, the concern is absolutely legitimate. Precisely, for this reason, the will of this Government is to bet clearly on what is actually a real state structure, which is the capacity of this country to make cooperation policies, of the country, not of a department, not of the Government, of the country. And, as a country, we are talking about many areas, many actors, many sectors that have a great capacity to project in terms of cooperation. What are we doing with what we're doing to the plan proposal we've got ahead of us? Home, therefore, to compensate, to recover, to encourage in some way these lines of clearly negative tendency that there has been the last few years, and to put them there where it touches, where it is close to a country like Catalonia being, which is at the forefront of what cooperation means on a not only European scale, but also worldwide.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.45.0	Thank you, Counsellor Romeva. There's a word from Mr. Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.46.0	Yes, counselor. We've got to touch the ground a little bit, too. I agree with the background of your speech, but you know that the cooperation plan which the Government has provided and to which our parliamentary group has supported has concrete presuppositional commitments. And the world of cooperation when it's concerned doesn't do it in a generic way, it does it in a concrete way because it suffers from the fact that the annual presuppostarial commitments are not complete. The government has not been able to hold a presupposition for the year 2016, with a bad negotiating policy, and is patenting at this time, too, following this bad negotiating policy, to hold the presupposition of 2017. But you know that 2016 and 2017 failed to meet the presuppositionary commitments of the cooperation board. Therefore, we are concerned and, therefore, before this, we want concrete answers. What are you going to do, counselor, before this? Will it change now, that we are still in time, the presupposed commitments in terms of cooperation to complete the plan that you yourself have set up? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.47.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. There's the word the Romeva Councilman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.48.0	Thank you very much. Indeed, the plan establishes that in the period 2015-2018 there must be a significant increase, which was stipulated: 5_millions in 2016, 10 in 2017 and 10 in 2018. As you also know, 2016, unfortunately, we were not able to count on assumptions, not just for a government responsibility, but for a shared responsibility, in any case I would say; because, obviously, the pact..., in any case, the failure of the cooperation pact in relation to the 2016 assumption should also have valued it in the fact that there is no presumption of 2016. That, in the first place. Secondly, what we are doing, precisely, to fix this situation, which needs to be fixed and which the master plan states is 2018. So, precisely, we already have an increment for the cooperation agency directly of 10_millions, instead of the five that were to be at the first..., increment of 10_millions. And, in addition– and in addition–, as we understand that the operation is not just a function that the department has to carry out through the cooperation agency, we understand that this is a government responsibility. There is an absolutely significant increase of 13_millions that must allow the combined ODA for the year 2017 to remain at 31_millions. This doubles the assumption to last year. Obviously, if you tell me that's enough? I'll say no, no. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] That is why we are also doing many other things to increase the box that allows us to be much more efficient, specifically for what it does to the cooperation department and, overall, for what it does to government management. So, all the reason you say is that you have to do a lot more than you're doing, you know...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.49.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.50.0	...I also want to ensure that what we're exactly doing with these assumptions... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asks the Government about the conference to the European Parliament on the referendum]] [[310-00155/11]] He asked the Government about the European Parliament's conference on the referendum. The question is posed by Mrs Anna Gabriel, of the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.52.0	Yes, very good morning to you all. Counselor, we followed, as it could not be otherwise, with attention to the conference that you held yesterday in the European Parliament. We understand that it is a collegiate and therefore assumed by the whole government and that, therefore, each of the three interventions represented the same joint government. That's what we heard. We, as you can also imagine, disagree with some of the extremes that you have expressed: the way in which the economic situation of the country is described, this bet so clear for tourism, for example, that you know that for us, therefore, it is the new extractive industry of our natural assets; the role of the same European Union in which the President of the Generality insisted, persisted and reiterated that independence would be at the heart of the European Union. For us, this is an extreme that we should also be able to decide the citizens of this country. We believe that it would also be opportune to explain that there has been ideological diversity behind independent options and that, along with the unique thinking and homogeneity that some people so much like them, we claim diversity and plurality of thought. In any case, it was, of course, the political conference of the Government; nothing to say in this regard, but we do want to ask two concrete questions. First of all, as we have already asked in the political conference that we held on the past 12th generation, we would urge that the objective of the agreement referendum not distract from the main objective, which is the realistic objective, the only one that exists: unilaterality. I, therefore, do not believe false expectations. It's likely that this process doesn't go from the law to the law. It is perhaps opportune that we speak of intervening legality and it is certainly opportune that we invite all the political forces that believe in the referendum, that demand a referendum with guarantees, that we incorporate them to work from now on to find these guarantees. It is very good that those who repeat that they do not want, that we do not want a new 9-N can sit down with us and can see that the guarantees are in the measure that the majority of political forces demand.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.53.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.54.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. I always try to explain, and I seem to do it very insistently, that this is a project, it is an ideologically, socially, cross-cutting process from all points of view. Certainly, yesterday, the intervention in the European Parliament, in the largest room of the European Parliament counting the plenary, was an intervention that made three members of the Government, which effectively distributed the interventions according to the theme, because it seemed to us that it was the best way to explain to us before so many representatives of that chamber and so many representatives of the diplomatic body present in Brussels, that it is a place where the diplomatic presence is very important. There were, for example, Members of the People's Group, the Socialist Group, the Green Group, the Liberal Group, the Unitarian Left, the Nordic Left, etc., some of whom were or have been Vice-Presidents of the European Parliament, etc. We also understand that the relationship with European institutions is not seen in the same way for all groups in this chamber. It seems to us, however, that today we had the obligation and the firm will to explain ourselves there. I think we got it. And in any case, respect your questions, willing to incorporate more groups and more sensitive people, and it seems to me that in this sense we have always worked. Precisely the work that the promoter group in favor of the reference is doing, the manifesto that has made public this week, seems to us to be going in this line of trying to open up the media as much as possible, because we are convinced that this is fundamentally a democratic cause, and therefore, as more democrats we follow those we defend, much better. In the same way, also share with you that the will to reach an agreement with the Spanish Government to make a reference possible, at the same time as the circumstances and the permanent refusal of the Spanish Government in this and many other areas, as we have seen today another time in this control session... so this is unlikely. Therefore, in any case, we do not distract ourselves, we have never entertained ourselves from our commitments, from our will, and it seems to us that the firmness in our commitments, the precise work, the concrete work, is compatible with the act of pedagogy that we did yesterday in the European Parliament, is compatible with the work of the promoter group in favour of the referendum, which is also the expression of the National Pact for the Referendum that we held in a room here close to, and, in any case, that in any case we distract ourselves from our obligations, our commitments, our willingness and our duty, which is derived from a democratic result to past elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.55.0	Thank you, Vice President. Ninth question to the government, about the performance... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You're right, Mrs. Gabriel, there's 15 seconds left, and it seemed to me that already... okay. [[The president laughs.]] I have the word Mrs. Gabriel. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.56.0	Yeah. It's true that the government has run out of time, but I hadn't run out of my...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.57.0	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.58.0	I wanted to make one last point: the agreed reference is not that it is unlikely, it is absolutely impossible. Therefore, we would do well to prepare this country for what we are facing, which is a democratic conflict of high level and where only mobilization, determination and willingness of the people will fill the Spanish state's lack of dialog. And secondly, and lastly, it is appropriate that we begin to link the reference to the process constitute. In this country there are many people who are, who are independent, because we know that independence is the real engine of transformation of many other issues. So it is also convenient for Europe to know that we are not going to re-edit a pact like that of 78...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.59.0	Now you've run out of time, Mrs. Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.60.0	...but they're going to... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.61.0	Thank you, Mrs. Gabriel. [[Ask the Government about the social news]] [[310-00158/11]] Ninth question to the Government, on social action. The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.62.0	Thank you, Madam President. Consellera Bassa, a few fulls ago we reproached you for the unprotectiveness in which you left the minors in the queue, and you discharged responsibilities in Andalusia. We also tell you that residential centers for foster children need more resources, more personal, more restructuring; not only do we tell them: the Greuges Syndic tells you, the workers tell you..., and you have not provided for anything in the budgets, and the truth is that you do not bet decisively on the prevention of helplessness either. Last month, for example, you appeared on television about an alleged error in the DGAIA that separated a girl from her family. And you counterattacked the person who claimed to have suffered the error, revealing private personal and medical data to which you had access, because of your status as a counselor, that this girl had not revealed and you revealed them live on television, leaving the person you were protecting unprotected precisely. And finally, today you have raised the co-op to drug addicts and seropositives, who are among the groups that most need the assistance of the social welfare council, which you represent. Counsellor, how long are you going to shake up the responsibilities and leave those of you who have precisely to protect unprotected? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.63.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.64.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. The truth is that, as the question was social news, I thought that I would ask about the Catalan refugee programme that we presented yesterday, asking for five hundred mentors, and yet there have been no split hours and we already have 275 mentors. [[Widow's remorse.]] You tell me about the protection of minors. We explained it very clearly. On the subject you're talking about, this lady – because at these times she's a major – who went to a TV set..., everything I said she had said before, earlier, in some communication media, and if I don't show it, why..., not just on that set, but on other places. So, calmly, I didn't reveal anything at all. I had many more things to reveal, but, as I might think, protection is above all, and I wouldn't reveal it from the top of my head. On the subject that I am asking of the DGAIA, you know that for us it is not only protection, but prevention, the law of the five: prevention, protection, participation, provision of funds and, finally, participation of all. We will continue with this compromise.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.65.0	Thank you, Constellera Bassa. You have the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.66.0	Well, Madam Counselor, you, aside from justifying the unjustifiable and saying that you still had more to reveal and that you did not reveal..., I will tell you that the opposition asks you for what you want, eh? And you do it gently or firmly, Mr. Rull. Let's see, you have not denied that you have climbed the 16_percent of co-payment to the group of drug addicts and seropositives, people, some, who want to detoxify themselves and who need public help, because it is in everyone's interest to do so, and others, who suffer from a disease that today, fortunately, on many occasions does not cause death, but which is one of the most serious that exists. And I would ask you to tell us here a commitment by the HIV-positive group to whom you have raised the copayo no less than a 16_per_cent. And another thing: work, Mrs Bassa, work, and don't shift the responsibilities to others. We already know that your government is playing independence, but, look, I tell you one thing: you can't distract the opposition, you constitute the weak flank of this government, your work at the front of social welfare is demonstrating, with the thermometer of minors, drug addicts and the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.67.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.68.0	... HIV-positive, who neglect the collectives that should protect... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.69.0	Answer the councillor. [[The applause continues.]] Counselor Bassa responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.70.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, we don't live in any more responsibility, absolutely; the government is working. This is why we have made a new model of social and educational intervention services for children; therefore, prevention and protection, as I said before. And what I'm talking about, the co-payment, I suppose he's known that the bars have changed, that so they have more money, that they go into butxaca money; so we give them more butxaca money. That made me change the theme of co-sponsorship. But don't worry, we're regulating this whole issue, both for people with disabilities and for people with HIV, and you'll tend to see the resolutions that we come up with with with all the entities that are working, as long as we're working, as you know, with guaranteed returns, that I assume you'll be on our side with the proposal we're making, that you can also get in with all the people with HIV, because they're the people that you're interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.71.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the presence of the Spanish army at the Teaching Hall]] [[317-00106/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. The question is posed by Mrs Gabriela Serra, from the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.72.0	Good morning, thank you. Mr President, first of all, Fira de Barcelona made public the decision to renew a stand of the Spanish army to the next edition of the Saló de l'Ensenjament, which is to be celebrated next March. A few days later, the wire confirmed that it had managed to triple the space destined for the armed forces and move from thirty-six to one hundred square meters. We affirm that this decision contradicted fully the fifty-point of the Movement 55/XI, on the demilitarization of Catalonia, which urges the Government of the Generality, concretely, to avoid the presence of the army in educational and promotional spaces, like the Hall of the Teaching of Barcelona. If you recall the motion, it was approved for this Parliament on 14 July and with a majority majority: 80 votes in favour, 35 against and 15 abstentions. We know that the Generality, by means of the Department of Education, the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families and the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge, has a direct involvement, a prominent organizational participation and a significant responsibility in the celebration of this event. Councillor Jordi Baiget, for example, holds a prominent position in the governing bodies of the firm: he is the first vice-president of the General Council of Fira de Barcelona. Thus, the Directorate General of Youth, through the young book, is the sponsor of the salon. The Movement 55/XI, on the demilitarization of Catalonia, approved in this chamber, counted various legislative actions aimed at the promotion and promotion of the culture of the pau. We understand, therefore, that the sovereignty of this Parliament and the legal body that emanates from it are and must be over the decisions of an institution such as Fira de Barcelona, as well as the Spanish military institution. And it's not the eighty votes that the government is asking today; it's also an important sector of civil society that does it: teaching unions, the FAPAC, the movements of pedagogical renewal, going through the entities and study centers that work for the promotion of the culture of the pau–Justicia and Pau, Foundation for the Pau, Centre Delàs – as many vegan and citizen organizations in defense of the territory, many of them members of the campaign«Demilitarize education. Therefore, President, what does the Government of the Government of Catalonia plan to do, which are the actions it has adopted and the directives given because the army does not have a presence in the Teaching Hall this March? As the campaign says, "We demilitarize education, weapons don't educate, weapons kill. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.73.0	Thank you, Mrs Serra. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.74.0	Yes; very good morning, very honourable President of Parliament. My honourable Member, just an acclaim for all those people who, being able to take your words off, may think that we have some more responsibility..., all of us have, but some more than the one that would be close to the Fira de Barcelona. The Fira de Barcelona does not preside over the Generalitat, the Mayor of Barcelona presides over it. The decision of the hall to which you refer is exclusively the management, the responsibility of Fira de Barcelona; it is not of the Government of the Generality. It's more, in this sense we'll file a complaint about how things have gone. We did it on September, we addressed a letter to them; a letter in which we conveyed the concern that this Parliament expressed about the presence of the army in this room. This card was not endorsed, it was not endorsed by the Fira de Barcelona, and therefore from this point of view I was surprised by a couple of questions. The first, for a reason of interest to know the cost to the Catalan taxpayer of the repeated presence of the Spanish army in this fire – I think it would be good for all those people who have an interest in knowing what things are worth and what costs things in this country. And the second is that it seems to me that if there is a broad feeling expressed by the institutions, all the institutions – and the army is also an institution of the State – should try to approach this will and this feeling. It is perfectly compatible that the Spanish army is doing its job, the job you've been entrusted with, is perfectly compatible with respect or is respect what is the feeling of the majority of society that is surprised because in a room of these characteristics there is the presence of a thing..., that has its responsibility, its job and that it is necessary. We do not start from the idea that security is something that we can banalize or delegate; security is essential, and states and countries must have security. But we believe that these two interests are perfectly compatible and that they do not fit..., and so we will let this know, and if we have to take some measure in this sense, then we will take it, that goes beyond what has been expressed in this Parliament, that I believe it is a faithful reflex of which a majority of the people of Catalonia express themselves.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.75.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the conference to the European Parliament on the proposal for a reference on independence]] [[317-00105/11]] Eleventh question, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.76.0	Thank you, Mr. President. With regard to the conference that you held yesterday in a room of the European Parliament and which you did not attend by the European authority, as you appreciate that you did not even attend this conference by any one person?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.77.0	Thank you, Mr Albiol. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.78.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Albiol, I am pleased that you finally acknowledge that the conference did not take place at a bar and that it did..., you did not have more reason to admit that you did, in fact, in a room of Parliament, as the Vice-President said or as the Romeva Councillor said ; certainly, after the plenary, the largest, with an overoccupation, as you could see in the pictures. I don't know, I'd have to describe what it means to be uplifting people. For me, all the people who came were relevant, are citizens, are MEPs, are people of the diplomatic system, are foreign journalists [[applause]] For me, they were all uplifting. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.79.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.80.0	President Tarradellas said that in politics everything can be done, except ridiculous, and I add: "Less, let alone, in the European Parliament. Mr Puigdemont, it is no longer that you were to see absolutely no person or any relevant authority; it is that not even of the 751 Members of the European Parliament..., not even 3_per_cent attended it. They only visited them, only attended a 2-per-cent. That 3-per-cent that seems to haunt some of you over time. Do you want me to tell you, Mr. Puigdemont, what is the picture of the conference you made yesterday? [[The orator shows a photograph to the chamber.]] This is the image that remains of the conference that you made yesterday: some gentlemen of Calafell taking out posters; gentlemen with cameras, in the best tourist style, and children under eleven years attending the conference. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] This..., that's the picture. This is the image, even with the presence of some person, if not, singular, in it. From here, tell her that... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.81.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.82.0	... it's more of a meeting, it's a meeting that only filled with convinced people, displaced people, many of them, from Catalonia, in some subsidized cases, and this is their real calling power. That lecture, Mr. Puigdemont, is a big lie. It is a great lie as is a great fantasy the politics it is carrying in the last year. It's a children's story with everyone's money. And the answer to his challenge was yesterday, precisely: it is politically isolated. He lives, Mr Puigdemont, in an institutional desert. Do us all a favor: your time and the money of all Catalans dedicate it to what really concerns the majority. Prioritise the money and its effort in those 460,000 Catalans who today have no work. We'll all thank you, but especially those people, who are the worst they're ever going through. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.83.0	Thank you, Mr. García Albiol. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.84.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Albiol, it has been very opportune to quote Tarradellas to his attributed phrase that in politics it is possible to do everything, less the ridiculous, precisely, and after you have just proved effectively that Mr. Tarradellas was right. [[Give me the applause.]] We'll have an opportunity... [[Perlongats applause.]] It will have, moreover, opportunity to do so, because in October it will do exactly forty years of its return, which will allow us to have a very panoramic view of what the political evolution of this country has represented, since the arrival of President Tarradellas, invested as President of Catalonia before the approval of the Constitution, in this Palau, in the Palau del Parlament and in the Palau de la Generalitat, and why those hopes today have these illusions. But, said that, it seems to me that you will have to... give an explanation to the people of Calafell. Is there a problem with Calafell's people? What's wrong with him? You... [[Widow's remorse.]] Are you worried that people from Calafell went to visit the European Parliament? What the hell's going on? [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] I thought the interest of the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.85.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.86.0	...of parliamentarians in democracy was to bring the institutions closer to the citizenry. I see that you share the idea that the institutions must be like fine words so that we can put them in captivity – like the Spanish Embassy in Vatica, which is worth forty-thousand euros – and that none of the people who went to the European Parliament today have the opportunity to climb ever in their lives. Well, listen, a council, yes – which will not pay attention to it, and perhaps it is better than not to pay attention to it –: they do not believe their own propaganda; they will go badly. Think... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] To think that the people who attend a conference are none; not to have the interest so alone to look at not what their headlines say, to expand a little the panorama, to look exactly what they are commenting and to analyze specialized journalists; to look who exactly came and what it represents who came; to look at the people who came; to look at the effects that the explanation of the Catalan case will have to Europe and the world. Because there's interest there, and the questions are there. And the interest and the questions you should have asked them a few years ago and maybe today, instead of doing this face of astorians because things happen that you say would never happen, you'll understand something else. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.87.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the TV3 program I ask]] [[317-00108/11]] Dotzena questions, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.88.0	Thank you very much, President. Very honorable, perhaps we try to land from politics to people's politics. The Sunday evening we had many and many pleasant surprises to see that broadcast, that TV3 program I ask, in which a nodrid representation and varied representation of the country asked and raised problems that rarely felt on television in the mouths of journalists and still less in the mouths of the Tertulians. All right, and congratulations on TV3, and congratulations on the fact that there's no answer. Also, it was curious the reaction, very widespread, not only of the Tertullians, who can feel a little disconnected, but of good people around them, and even of political leaders, who considered..., van..., had angry reactions before the presence of you few frequents on TV3. I wanted to..., I just wanted to ask you a question: do you, like your surroundings, believe – taking the consecrated expression – that they went in to steal them home? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.89.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.90.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, frankly, I don't understand this final reflection, because if any expression has made this government in relation to this program, it was made by the councilwoman Munté on a press conference, we were asked to respect it, and I think it was explicit. And things that he said – nothing – can be interpreted, or force things, in line with what you have said. A little more respect for TV3 professionals, of respect for the citizens who went there, of respect for the government, who took a risk of contributing precisely to demonstrating and combating a propaganda that perhaps some groups have contributed to, to thinking that the public media in this country are doing a different job than they are doing, and which explains, of course, that they are still hearing leaders after a few years.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.91.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.92.0	Yes; we congratulate you on this TV3 program and encourage you to follow through this line. Because precisely in a program in which the view is given to the citizenry they feel to speak of things like the detail, like the weight that it entails for the public education the concerts with the schools that secrete by sex; they feel to speak of injustices, of social inequality, of the difficulties of access to housing. And just—just—the one who has taken us, and the one who has been curious—look, consult, listen to his surroundings—the reactions that there was. We would be happy to see that TV3 is following this line and that this dialogue with the citizenry is following. And above all, what this issue shows is that what we've been fighting for weeks, and what it seems that we don't get out of it, that it's having social assumptions, that's what will really give cohesion to the country and respond to the concerns of the country, that when it talks, it talks to these people. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.93.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.94.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Rabell, there's also talk here about retailing, concerted school, social inequalities... Therefore, I did not attribute to a program a function that is also doing this Parliament. I am saying this for the benefit of all of you, because in the end someone will think that the 135 Members' concern is not connected to the reality of the street. I, believe'm, not only in the Ple for the questions they make, but in the comparisons of the councillors in the different commissions, it is clear that there is, happily, a communion between the representatives of the citizenry and the citizens. And so, quite often we can say with certainty and certainty that when we express ourselves here and vote and come to a majority, we are a reflection of what most of the people of Catalonia want and feel. We can't take the social majorities only when they're in favor of a TV show; we take them all. And I'll take them all, and I'll ask you about Jo's day. I think it was good news, it was a good public television service, which, I insist, denies the propaganda that is spreading irresponsibly and that projects a shadow of suspicion on the good professionals. A good public television is that. Another thing is the schedule, the first time; we are convinced that here we would agree that the schedule might not be the right one. Secondly, I believe that the citizens must be able to ask what they want with what they want, representing who they want, the President or the Mayor of Barcelona or the President of the Spanish Government who, of course, also have means of communication for whom they are responsible. I think the example of Catalan public television could be extended. And I also think it has to be repeated, because to some who preach the new policy, I think they would be wise to practice it. We practice it directly. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.95.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Rabell, have you finished? [[Pause.]] Li's still up for twenty-nine seconds. Don't you? [[Pause.]] No, I'm saying it because, like before... but, no, no, I see it, I see it not. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the impact of the agreements of the conference of autonomous presidents in the citizens of Catalonia]] [[317-00107/11]] Tretzena asks the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.96.0	Thank you, President. Mr President, what is the value of the agreements reached at the last conference of Presidents and their effects on Catalans and Catalans? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.97.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.98.0	Thank you very much. How surely you could have read, effects – effects –, head, head or one. Captain. Therefore, after the experience of previous conferences, let's say that the appreciation that I make in it is also enormously skeptical.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.99.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.100.0	The euphony of "sceptic and aseptic" allows me to doubt about the morning, but you already know what I think of his absence. I think it's a mistake, I think it's a resignation from its functions. You have doubts about the conference of presidents, you are independent, but despite these two facts, I think you should go. In any case, my question was: what do you think of the agreements that have been made and which, therefore, point out some political priorities on which the Catalan Government should have a position? The first, the financing. Do you think you're sending some expert to the committee, or did you actually delegate that to the government of the islands? I mean, do you guys give up on improving the generality's funding, yes or no? I would like to know what you think about establishing a common strategy in front of the democratic front; about the Senate holding a meeting, or two, of the General Commission of Self-Governments to talk about education or male violence; what does it think about the need for cooperation in the field of civil protection; what does it think about the coordination mechanisms that are intended to promote in the matter of energy poverty or the dramatic situation of refugees... I'd like to know if these questions, since you didn't want to go to the presidents' conference, will ask President Rajoy when he's a virgin. I'd like to know how the forty-five-point negotiation is – referring to the band, and..., forty-five more? Will it activate the bilateral mechanisms that are in these frozen moments, as we ask in a motion that will be debated in this very Ple? Is there going to be any progress in self-government or financing from here to the elections? You talk to us about a declaration of interdependence and I think we have interdependence for a long time; come on, I think forever. We need more and better relations between Catalonia and the rest of Spain; we need dialogue, negotiation and pact. And that's a two-way thing. I can admit that the other band did not seem to have been in place for the past five years, but it seems that now, as at least, they are in place to speak. I ask you not to resign to the absence of dialog, to close the account back and leave an opportunity for negotiation, because while independence is not up, that maybe not up, what? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.101.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.102.0	Yes, thank you very much. I think I've repeated it on more than one occasion. Today I will take advantage of your question, Mr. Iceta, to insist on it again. We do not give up any euro or money that is close to Catalans through..., no of the mechanisms in force, the old finance model or the future finance model, because we have not stopped thinking – and perhaps some group, stop from their demand to participate in the new finance model, will now become aware of it –, we have not failed to claim, that Catalonia is not treated fairly. And this is a concept that has to do with dignity. Not only with the mathematics of the financing formula, but with respect and recognition. And that didn't happen. Not at the presidents' conference either. Absolutely. On the contrary. Just so, if anything comes out of the presidents' conference, it's a little bit of the pilot coming in to say, "From now on we have to reach an agreement. They think that that's why we could have saved the money that the conference of presidents represents, and we would have sent a message a more rigorous and convincing hair to the citizenry. To say that we're going to do a commission to study the funding model is not to say anything– it's not to say anything– when they're three years behind – three years behind. I'm not talking about the conference call, which was already a few more, but about the new funding system. We all believe, and I believe that this has also been expressed by some other autonomous community, that we deserve some explanation about this delay and what happens with the money that this delay represents less for poorly funded communities. And in this sense, therefore, all the support for the Balearic Islands, all the support for the Valencia Country. And we'll also see what it represents, and I think that very positively, the fact that it doesn't have to be Catalonia that it has to clean up the tax problems that exist in Spain..., and that it starts to be a responsibility of the autonomous Spanish communities..., those that signify that Catalonia has always identified with the saying, and that perhaps for this reason it hasn't yet been resolved, and now they'll start seeing a little like autonomy is compared before the miracle. But do you know what the problem is? Not of the intentions, not of the agreements, at all, to hold bilateral meetings, nor this thing that enthuses us as long as the Senate does not know what. The problem is the compliments. We're not after this, are we? If there are many in agreement, there are many peaks, there are many gatherings! At last, there are approved laws in this sense, approved laws in this sense! One of the agreements, the presidents' conferences... if it's incomplete! The problem is not, therefore, to agree. It's the compliment of these agreements. Can anyone tell me if from the conference of presidents came a mechanism, a sun, that solves this problem, that guarantees that the agreements will be completed? I didn't see it, and I'm convinced it wasn't there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.103.0	President... [[Greetings.]] Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the balance of his first year's management as President]] [[317-00104/11]] Fourteen questions the President of the Generalitat on the political situation. The question is posed by Mrs Inés Arrimadas, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.104.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Puigdemont, it's been a year since you've been president of the Generality. What's the balance of your management of the government's captivator this year?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.105.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.106.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madame Arrimadas, good morning. I think it would be a lot, let's face it, I don't mind myself making a valuation of myself. In any case, I had the opportunity to pass a, let's say, first examination with the question of trust and with the general policy debate. Some conclusions came out, and I leave it to the court of all of you and the citizenry to consider that this year the presidency of the Generality deserves.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.107.0	Thank you, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.108.0	Thank you, President. As always, you run away from questions as well as from the reality of Catalans, Mr Puigdemont. I'm going to give you objective data on your management this year. We started 2017 as 2016 began: with you in the hands of a CUP assembly. Throughout democracy there have only been two years with less legislative activity in this chamber than in 2016. By not doing so, they do not even comply with their own government program, because we have already lost count of how many times they have had to change their own road map. And when you've barely been president for a year you already say you're leaving..., you already said you're praying. You do not go to the conference of presidents to negotiate a better financing system, but you are able to spend yourself on a single day 130,000_euro of all Catalans in propaganda of an act in Brussels to talk about the usual, the only thing you talk about, which is to repeat the 9-N. You have gone to the heart of the European Union to talk about disunity. You spend a lot of money and money on Catalans in Europe. But do you know what's going on? That he does not receive a single European authority. And they do receive other presidents from other autonomous communities, perhaps because they don't go with the same plans as you. And, moreover, not only that, but you are forcing governments, embassies and European institutions to continually make announcements by disassociating themselves from their actions and denying their claims. And all that affects the butxaca of the Catalans, the pocket of the Catalans, and the image of Catalonia, and it does it in a negative way. With you we already know what to expect: many photos, many events, many acts whose propaganda costs us all one eye of the face, but work – work –, little, and solutions to real problems, none. You are a president, let me tell you, absent and temporary from a government that does not work for Catalans, that has unreal and illegal plans and that also plays everything, and always, to the roulette of the CUP. We are, and you are, at the end of a cycle, a cycle that began in 2010, which began with a bet on independence, on separation. But we can't lose another year, Mr Puigdemont. The world is moving, and we have to seize the opportunities. If, as it seems, in the coming months we have elections, the Catalans have an opportunity to recover a government with common sense, which works for everyone and has a realistic project. Accept it: you are not going to achieve your only objective, which is to get us out of Spain and the European Union. On the contrary: the Catalans will continue to participate and lead the reforms throughout Spain. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.109.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.110.0	Thank you very much. Mrs. Arrimadas, I already know that you don't have to be interested in reading the summaries of what the Executive Board approves, because it could come to the conclusion, in other words, that of the twenty-two bills of law, they may be few, for us they are the correct ones, twenty-two bills of law... but in any case they don't describe this reality of paralysis, of absence, of temporaryity, that doesn't work, that you and your propaganda project on the government. Let the citizens stay, let them judge whether the government works or not, let them see if the councillors, when there is a problem, if the president, when there is a problem, answer or not answer. And I don't say that for Jo's program I answer, but whether we're there or not we're there. Let it be the city of Catalonia. I have the feeling that this government, with all its defects, completes, completes in a very honorable way, very close, very simple, but it is our way of completing, without fireworks. And this may make you, who are very used to reading reality from fireworks and artificial focus, feel that this government is just not here and is not working. This also leads to another concerned confusion. He said, "You're not going anywhere. I'm not getting ahead of myself. I don't know if I gave him good news or bad news. But I'm not getting ahead of myself, I'm gonna stay here until the end and then, that's what I said. I have said, and I have reiterated, and I believe I have also said it in this parliamentary chamber before the scepticism of some spokespersons who do not believe it, is that one day I end this period I do not intend to continue – of others yes, quite legitimately – making political career. But my purpose, and to which I have always purchased my activity, is to carry out this word. But I would like to talk to you about what happened this year in Catalonia, because we are so concerned about the Catalans' buttocks, that we have not only not stopped to ask the Spanish government to pay what you give, that this does affect the Catalans' buttocks, but we have had a very intense activity to capture foreign investment, and because I grow the economy, and because it is stunted. I, out there! These things have happened, and they have gone better than in Spain. There has been much more foreign investment in Spain than in Spain, and many more companies have been created in Catalonia than in Madrid, against the mantra of its propaganda, which says that Catalonia has a flight of companies. To see when you will be aware of what is the reality that it is up to you to control from your pocket of opposition heads. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.111.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the conference to the European Parliament on the proposal for a reference on independence]] [[317-00109/11]] Fifteen questions the President of the Generality on the latest political developments. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.112.0	Yeah. Thank you very much, President. Many honourable presidents, since the year began, all of unionism, and today we have not had a task, unionism in general and the State in particular, have passed, in order to look at the lack of the process that sees Catalonia, to try to put an end to it, of what was the past year, which was all his campaign of the way and the threat..., we have begun the year with what would be the campaign of disproposals, of the game of disarrays, they actually lose their papers and say and do things, of truth, that they denote that, as they say to my people, "they do not touch any quarter or hour. We heard the Vice President of the Government of the State say that a reference is a "democratic abnormality". We saw that they were dealing with the conference that you, the president, the vice president and the councillor of "coffee shop and that they were activating all the diplomacy to try and make sure that you didn't do well. We have seen the President of the Central Government asking that the website of the Generalitat can be consulted in castle, when it has been possible to consult in castle for 20 years, and if before it could not be consulted is because there was no internet. [[Rialles.]] We've heard the government's delegate in statements that go all the way across the line from the demagogic, moral low... trying to tie up the expenses that you must have cost yesterday's conference with the death of a girl, and from here we're asking her to make a public apology, we're asking her this... [[Greetings.]] It's not for him. And on the other hand we also felt like the president of the PSOE was talking about "medieval and saying: "Look, listen, we don't ask you to feel Spanish. What we demand is that they be citizens from here to force. In the case of medievals he proposed to follow us in a monarchy, isn't he? And yesterday, the president of the Circle of Entrepreneurs also said that entrepreneurs flee Catalonia "as plague, right? There is something they say, President, that "if the opponent is wrong, you do not mislead him. But I think we need to talk. And we want to talk about yesterday's conference. First of all, tell them that I think we share the feeling... not just from this group, but from a lot of citizens that we've had a great deal of satisfaction and we've felt very well represented. And more so because they spoke very clearly and very calmly – very calmly – and it wasn't easy after all that was activated and what was done just because you didn't do well. And to us... our... went well. They explained very well what, how and why we want to do all this. That is why we want to ask him what value he has in making, yesterday in Brussels, and also taking into account everything that had been done by the Spanish diploma and some Spanish parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.113.0	Thank you, Mr. Turull. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.114.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Turull, appreciation is positive. In the first place, because you get a proposal that is also a task of this chamber: that we do pedagogy, that we explain ourselves. We went to explain to Brussels the same thing we explain here and the same thing we explain to Madrid. Who could have had the opportunity to listen to us in any of these places will know that we give the same where we go. The same. Because we want to explain ourselves; we want that to what some were complaining, the right to know..., so we want to complete this right to know. What's going on in Catalonia? I've gone to explain it. And I want to thank, of course, the efforts of so many people and the assistance of so many people in yesterday's act, because I think he also gave a good deal of what this country calls for and how it does things in this country. In second place, why is it positive? It is good because everything that is appropriate, I insist, citizenship to institutions is very good and much needed. Moreover, I would say that the European institutions are in great need of this closeness. I'm telling you clearly. I think we gave good news to the European institutions yesterday. That there are citizens who can approach and feel their own the European Parliament, or any parliament, is good news. And that there has been a cross-cutting presence in an activity in the European Parliament is necessary. European institutions are in great need of this proximity, and Catalanism, historically, always – always – has been on the side of Europe and Europeanism. And, in the third place, it is also positive, the balance, because it is repeatedly proven in these years that Catalonia is subject to interest in Europe for various reasons. First, because of its economic, business and cultural dynamism. Catalonia is a territory that arouses great interest in its economic, business and cultural dynamism. And naturally, they have an interest in asking questions and knowing what's going on... to their top representatives. Catalonia is an enormously attractive country for investment and for the new industries. And, therefore, his president, his advisers, too, have the duty to travel to the world and to explain to the different agents what passes to Catalonia to achieve that these good results of the 16 is able to multiply the 17th and the 18th. And obviously, yes, Catalonia is attractive for the political process, for civic, civil, peaceful mobilizations and for the demands of Catalans supported in time and defended for a part of the population and for their institutions. Therefore, all that goes on to explain is positive, all that goes on to explain Catalonia to the world is positive, because in the end what it does is to strengthen democracy – to strengthen democracy – are the rules of the game with which Catalonia wants to play its game..., finally, its history, and what it does is to strengthen our opportunities as a country. And opportunities like the country have a direct beneficiary, who are the citizens, and that's why we work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.115.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Condol demonstration for the murder of two rural agents in Aspa (Segrià)]] I would like to greet, on behalf of the chamber, the representatives of the Cos d'Agents Rurales who are accompanying us today. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] On behalf of Parliament, I express our deepest condolences to Francesc Xavier Ribes and David Iglesias, the two rural agents murdered on Saturday passed to the municipal term of Aspa. We express our solidarity with the relatives of the victims and with the Rural Agents' Centre. For this reason, I propose to preserve a minute of silence in sign of pain. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] In accordance with the request made by the Government and with the conformity of the parliamentary groups concerned, the proposals, in accordance with Rule 81.3 of the Rules, altering the order of the day, in such a way that the question to the Government on the protection of public workers, which was point number 9, could be substantiated in the place of point number 13, relating to the question to the Government on prison equipment in Barcelona. Point number 13 will be substantiated, therefore, as the new point. I would also like to inform you that the Socialist Parliamentary Group has called for the postponement of the next plenary session of Agenda 8 on the question of the state of health resources and the impact on accessibility. Can this alteration be approved with your consent? [[Pause.]] The order of the day is modified, therefore, in this sense. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.116.0	The second point of the order of the day... [[Project of the fusion law of the official colleges of agricultural and agricultural engineering in Catalonia and of forestry engineering in Catalonia in the College of Agricultural and Forestry Engineering in Catalonia]] [[200-00021/11]] ... is the proposal to process, in a single reading, the Project of Law of Fusion of the Official Colleges of Agricultural and Agricultural Engineering of Catalonia and of Forest Engineering of Catalonia in the College of Agricultural and Forestry Engineering of Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 135 of the Rules, the Government has called for a single reading. Therefore, it is proposed to the Ple de la Cambra that the project is submitted for single reading. If it does not raise any objection or opposition, we consider this proposal approved by consent. [[Pause.]] Therefore, we shall proceed to the debate in agreement with the standards established for the debate of totality. The Board of Spokesmen, the 17th generation, agreed that the intervention of parliamentary groups will be five minutes each. The initiative will be presented by the Councillor of Justicia, Mr Carles Mundó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.117.0	Good morning, President. Ladies and gentlemen, President of the College of Agricultural Engineering and Agricultural Fathers of Catalonia, as well as of the College of Forestry Engineering of Catalonia, who accompanied us, welcome you to be here today. I am pleased to be able to defend this bill because, despite the fact that it is a process established for the law of qualified professions, it is also an example of effective and effective collaboration between the government and professional colleges. The merger of the College of Agricultural and Agricultural Engineers of Catalonia and the College of Forestry Engineers of Catalonia is good news because it strengthens the new institution, helps to streamline the map of professional colleges and, most importantly, will provide a better service to all colleges. The merger of the two corporations will give place to the new Colleges of Agricultural and Forestry Engineering in Catalonia, which will bring together agricultural and forestry engineering engineers, independently of the title with which they have acceded to the profession, and with equal rights and obligations. This, in the sense of doubt, will strengthen the college and guarantee its viability. The new Colleges of Agricultural and Forestry Engineering in Catalonia will have approximately two thousand collegiates, will gain on the map of collegiate professions and professional corporations, and will improve their dialogue with the Administration of the Generality and all other administrations, and in particular with the Departments of Agriculture and Territories. Logically, the fusion of the two colleges will also make it possible to optimize resources and improve the versatility of agricultural and forestry technical engineers. And, in this sense, the fact that the two professions act on the same territory and have many points in common will facilitate integration into a single occupational college, facilitate recycling and facilitate the formation of their colleges. In short, I have the certainty that this fusion will produce good fruits, because, in fact, it formalizes a reality that, in good measure, to the practice already exists and that works positively. Some professionals form part of the two colleges, share resources and are located in their own. For what it does to the procedure, we have proposed, as it was a while ago, the single reading process because, according to the Rules of this chamber, the nature of the initiative advises it and the simplicity of the text allows it. Moreover, the approval of this single reading law is the best way to resolve quickly and effectively the needs expressed by professional colleges. And I understand, because that's how they passed it on to me and I'm doing it on your behalf, thank you to all the groups in this room for the predisposition they've found. Finally, bearing in mind that the merger responds to the impulse of the two colleges, has the consent of the affected corporations of the respective general assemblies, that they approved the merger, and that it only generates positive consequences for the professional and for the group of institutions, they ask all groups for their support to pull forward this bill. Giving quick answers is the willingness of professional corporations, and the best service we can do from institutions is to contribute to this end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.118.0	Thank you, Your Honor. To fix the positioning of the different groups, has the word, in the first term, Mr. Francisco Javier Domínguez, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.119.0	President... First of all, give thanks to the representatives of the college who have come guests. I wanted to make a statement, as long as the colleges work in the rural and natural environment, and I, by professional vocation, also work in the media: there are other environmental professionals, who have already come forward here, who have been told this weekend, and I wanted to express verbally my dismay for the events of this week, which are rural agents. And now, speaking of the subject, we are talking about two colleges working in the same territorial area, which is the Catalan area; they have the same type of work, or similar, which is the rural area, although also industrial, and we are talking about a situation where the Generality has exclusive competences in the field of professional colleges, and we are dealing with two professional colleges. The Generality is empowered to promote the voluntary fusion of professional colleges. In our case there have been the same colleges that have promoted this unification process and have agreed on the basis of the merger in agreements in the respective assemblies. Therefore, with all the pre-dated processing, the preliminary memoranda: the pre-project, memories, reports, public information, allegations, with the resolution of these and until the single reading processing, not to say that we will donate..., our group will support this bill. Moreover, the reality is more by far the administrative processes. We are talking about a college of agricultural and agricultural engineers of about 1,800 colleges; another college of forestry engineers of about one hundred and fifty colleges, which would form a college a little stronger than the two of them separately. And there are two formations that are German and work in the same sector, both academically and professionally; they share classes at the same university, their college and common interests. Therefore, it is easy to understand that efforts and resources need to be unified to be more competitive and to defend the rights and rights of the congregations. Moreover, there is a point, which is very important, that it is guaranteed the equal rights and obligations of the colleagues of the new College of Agricultural and Forestry Engineering, regardless of their title. And now I'm running the risk of being a frivolous little thing, but this is like a couple you've been living with a long time and deciding to formalize their relationship, so the boyfriends live and lots of luck.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.120.0	Thank you, Congressman. Also to fix his position, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the word Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.121.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, to welcome the members of the College of Technical Engineers and Agricultural and Technical Engineers. To give the position of the Socialist Group on the fusion law project of the two colleges, which will be favorable, as well as to the single reading. We believe that it is..., obviously, that it is a bill with one article, four provisions, that it is simple; it required more for the different assemblies of the colleges; it defended repeatedly, and therefore insistently, so that it could make this a reality. And, therefore, we will give it support. Two thousand... In the first place, obviously, thank the work of the two col·legis; thank the work also of the two thousand col·legiates, in a sector that we believe important for the country, important for the agri-food sector, for the work that they do. And, therefore, the structure that organizes them, this college, therefore, we must also try that with this merger, which is the case, so..., try to make it as quick as possible, try to add effort, try to talk to the government, with the Administration, with the parliamentary groups, so, as fast as possible. Highlighting the importance of the profession of agricultural and forestry technical engineers at the time we are talking about a growing agri-food sector, the management of the territory is very important and the impact they have on the economic impact, on the impact on food, on the impact on the management of our territory is very important. Therefore, also, as the spokesman of the Committee on Agriculture, therefore, reiterate the importance and support we give, not only to the college, but to its associates and to the good work of all its members. We have seen, the recommendations of the CSTC have been collected, in which it was necessary to ensure the subrogation of the staff of the two colleges. That was it. He's added to the law. Therefore, the CTESC makes a favourable report, collects its recommendations, the merger is demanded, as they clearly say, the exclusive competences it has to the State, the Generality, which is still required for the assemblies of the two colleges. He's been there. The government, in its session, therefore, also asked for it, at the instigations of the Councillor of Justicia. The CTESC gives it the favorable form. We, here in Parliament, will, of course, give our vote in favour so that this continues. From here, where we would place them, it is that, during this year, the follow-up committee that will make it precisely possible to implement this merger..., but we would place them..., that once the merger is effective, can come to the corresponding committee to explain the objectives, the prospects, the strategies of the future so that we can try to work folded in so that the college works, that its associates have the same information and that this Parliament, of course, can help to bring forward the different actions, which are very important, from the work that the technical forest engineers and the technical engineers do every day. Therefore, the Socialist Group's favourable vote; to make us available for the future of the college, and to congratulate this time, yes, to have succeeded, so..., for which it seems, we will achieve the fusion of the two colleges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.122.0	Thank you, Congressman. On behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has now the word the MP Hortènsia Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.123.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Counsellor, deputies, deputies, welcome Mr. Ramon Lluís Lletjós, President of the Official College of Technical Engineers, and Mr. Josep Famadas, as well as the College of Technical Engineers. And, well, today it seems that a process has ended that began..., it began, three years ago, with which it was the councillor, with Councillor Gordó, of Justicia, and that what is then done..., and it started, the theme of the merger with beyond the colleges of economists and perishes... And today it is with these two professional colleges that what we are doing, what the government is doing, also developing that legislative mandate that we had, Law 7/2006 of 31 May, of the exercise of professional titles and of the colleges, that what I said was that "the government should try to fuse it between the colleges precisely to promote administrative simplification and to improve the processes. It is also true that this would not be possible, this government's will to develop the law, if there was no agreement between the two assemblies of these two organs. And that was it. Man could think he could deal with, maybe, more than a fusion, an absorption, until... – it's already been said here, isn't it? , said the counselor – there are numerical differences, because we are talking about a college that has 1,800 and is out of college and the other one that may have between 140 and 150. But we understand that it is not the will..., it is not the will of the two collections, the absorption, but that we are talking about a true fusion; that, moreover, it is well-functioning because this fusion means better. Because we have the implementation of nine titles that give access to these professions, changes in products that there have been, important, in the agro-branch sector, in the forestry sector. Because this merger involves a mix of media and resources and a cost reduction, and, above all, a single dialogue before the public administrations of these professions related to the sector, to the first sector and to the natural environment, because it involves a better efficiency. We have already said that we can talk about a single collegial window, about the services that will be donated to the collegiate. And in fact, above all, for us, important, that this college will not affect the professional functions recognized for each of the collectivities, because they continue to hold them, and they all continue to hold their rights and rights, and that they will enjoy more equally these rights and rights, regardless of where they come from. All this, we – our group, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot – consider that they are sufficient motivations for us to support them. And we give support to the one-reading process; because you already say the Rule, this process..., when simplicity or type of text allows it. And we believe that, in this case, the simplicity of the given text because it is done in one reading. And now, in the end, and quite briefly, only one petition, which I am doing on both sides of the Chair: I have reviewed the two statutes, of the two colleges, to prepare the intervention, and to myself that I would like..., and that, therefore, is a suggestion or a petition from this Member, that there is a point in the State of forest engineering engineers, point 3.17, which says that "one of its functions will be to promote the application of principles and provisions in international treaties for the protection of biodiversity and forests. I'll eat them... or I'll ask them to put them in the new college. I think the country and future generations will appreciate it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.124.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Also, to position himself, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Party of Catalonia, has the word the deputy Mr Sergio Santamaría.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.125.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I too, on a previous basis, would like to add to the deepest sympathy that our parliamentary group wishes to transfer to the families of David and Francisco Javier, rural agents murdered in Aspa when they fulfilled their duty. Entering into the question before us, in fact the Government brings to Parliament the draft law on the merger of the official schools of agricultural technical engineers and agricultural experts of Catalonia and that of forestry technical engineers of Catalonia; both, to be integrated into a single school: the College of Agricultural and Forestry Technicians of Catalonia. A fusion, if I may say so, between forest and countryside, desired by both collectives, as the deans of both schools expressed to us by letter, in order to better fulfill the mandated collegial functions. Indeed, according to the law regulating the exercise of the registered professions, and bearing in mind the request made in this regard by the two colleges, the Government of the Generalitat was also informed of this request and of the existence of a unanimous consensus in this regard. And, therefore, from the legislative and also in this case from the executive, who brings us this bill, it is up to us to facilitate, to speed up, to give an effective response to a request that seems entirely appropriate to us. Because the reasons given – to have a more solid, efficient and useful professional college for its members, a group of approximately two thousand collegiates – it is clear that it is appropriate. And, therefore, also, because we believe that..., it is also worth in this case the usual expression that the union makes the force, and hence that it seems to us and that we welcome the approach and the action itself, in this case, from the executive. In turn, the Government of the Generalitat, in the justification of the project, argues for reasons linked to the need to adapt to technological and scientific innovations that happen in agricultural and forestry processes, right? In the search, which seems to us to be intelligent and interesting, for greater competitiveness, adapting the supply to a more selective demand. Therefore, from this point of view, the Government's reasons also seem to us to be correct. Furthermore, as I said earlier, that is the interest of colleagues, and in trust, and this also seems to us to be fundamental, that their members enjoy a better service and that citizens, in turn, more efficient professionals, we believe it is opportune to support the project presented in the Chamber and its processing in one reading; in fact, in order not to delay a merger that has already de facto taken place. Here, too, it has been said that they are already functioning as one and, therefore, the legal support seems to us to be absolutely necessary. It seems, as I say, that powerful reasons to give the placet converge and that the project becomes law, adapting the regulation of both professions to the new times so that it is operational as soon as possible; in the interests, as I say, of the good functioning of the corporation that is born of the union of both professional activities that, also said here, are intimately linked. I therefore conclude my speech by ratifying, as I say, the vote in favour of our group; thanking, if not, its deans for their presence in the Chamber, and wishing its members a happy journey, walking hand in hand in a work that is very important for the whole of society and also for the conservation of the environment. Therefore, as I say, congratulations, congratulations and thank you very much for your presence in the Chamber. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.126.0	Thank you, Congressman. Now, also to position himself, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group CUP - Constituent Creed, has the word the deputy Sergi Saladié.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.127.0	Well, thank you very much, I'm running the chair. First of all, show our best record for the two agents murdered this weekend, and so also give souls and a strong embrace to both family members and company members of the Rural Agents' House. That's the previa, huh? , say how CUP will support this fusion project of official agricultural and forestry technical colleges in a single college. Without knowing the root causes that led to this decision, say that, like CUP, we agree with this proposal basically for two reasons. The first is because it adjusts to a way of hearing the rural space as from the CUP - Crida Constituent of the Entente. This is: a rural system or a rural area that operates from an agroforestry system that causes..., or generates from an interrelationship between different areas or agricultural fish and forest fish, which is a complex system and which is a system that generates high diversity, already cultural, already landscaped, already biologic. It is an agroforestry system that, in the last decades, we could say the last hundred years, globalization, energy change and the capitalist system have led to a simplification and deterioration of this agroforestry system. There has been, in this conjunction, a loss, therefore, of the agricultural activity – the primary sector – a loss of the social and economic pesso that it has had and that every time has less. There has been or has been an abandonment of the land of conreu, there has been a loss of forestry activities. And this has led to an impoverishment of ecosystems and landscapes. And, at times, it also makes it a system that, to be simple, therefore, is more vulnerable before the risks, for example, of climate change. Where we had seen and there was an agroforestry system we see how it was simplifying, generating two great areas that are almost no longer looked at or interconnected. For a band, we are generating spaces or large areas of conreu– many times monoconreu–, and with processes of land grabbing that, from our point of view, are worrying. I, on the other hand, some large forest areas, which have converted Catalonia into one of the main countries, as a percentage, the most forested in the world. Even though from the optics of urbanity, Barcelona or, at last, for the good..., for the good people of Ponent, therefore, it did not seem that Catalonia is a forest country, Catalonia has a 65_percent of its area occupied by forest surface and we are more forested than countries with Brazil, eh? , for example, that only has a 62_per_cent of its forest surface. From the point of view of the object of knowledge, therefore, from these two colleges, the system has carried them, or has carried them to the conjunction of science, to a segregation of knowledge from which the different realities and the different problems that have caused the problems or situations to be analyzed in an even way, and have often been lost, this global perspective. That agricultural and forestry technical colleges are now likely to merge, to us seems, therefore, an interesting and necessary step to make a country and a more civilized territory, because as Tarragoni said and forest engineer Rafael Puig and Valls, say, the degree of civilization..., or say, the degree of civilization of a country is measured by the state of its forests; we could also say 'by the state of its agroforestry systems. From this perspective, therefore, we would still be far from desirable and from here this future new college still has a lot of work to do; if not all, an important part. The reason why we support this fusion of these two colleges is simply because the two colleges agree, it's a fusion, it's worth redundancy, collegiate, the fruit of a consensus, and therefore from this point of view we have nothing to object to. Now, therefore, there is a period in which the management commission will have to complete this merger process, so as they say, it will have a more robust, efficient and useful professional college. I hope that's the way it is. A lot of luck and uncertainty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.128.0	Thank you, Congressman. Finally, on behalf of the Grupo Parlamentari Junts per el Sí, has the words of Mr Germà Gordó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.129.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, members and deputies, representatives of the Department of Justice, representatives of the professional colleges that accompany us in this session, first want to take advantage of the occasion of my intervention as well as the rest of parliamentary groups, to give the condol of our group, of the Group of Joints for the Yes, to the families of victims, of the two rural agents murdered, as well as to the Cos d'Agents Rurals. He's next. Today is an important day for the college of agricultural and agricultural engineers and forestry engineers, but also for its colleges. And even more, I think today is an important day for the whole rural world. And we believe that you are for various reasons. First of all, because today, with this bill submitted by the Government through its Councillor of Justice and to which, logically, our group is supporting, there is a long process of analysis and debate of the corporations that today merge on the situation that the exercise of their professions presents, on the main problems that they have, on the main challenges, but also on the nine opportunities that arise; a process of unification of promoter col·legislation that had a moment of special transcendence, it was said: the signature of the agreement of unification of provisional states, which was protocol·litized in a public text on July 17, 2015. I remember well because at that time I was still a Councillor of Justice. This meant the culmination of a difficult work, but also of an illustrative work, for the collegiates, for the collegiates; a work that required many hours of work, of dialog, of reflections and, we also have to say, of concessions. But it was always done thinking about the best for corporations, thinking about the best for colleges, for professionals, thinking about the best for the country. Secondly, the second reason, because the Government, in use of its competitions, has successfully developed one of the objectives of Law 7/2016: the adoption of support measures and encouragement to facilitate the fusion process between professional colleges. In fact, I myself, on 25 June 2014, in this parliamentary chamber, all defending the draft law governing the merger of trade and business colleges and economists, said: "This law looks to the future, starts a way that will surely follow other professional colleges to organize their structures with the motivation of changes in professional qualifications, the possible modification of the rules governing the exercise of professional qualifications and the diversity of professionals with related professional skills. That's what it was, and we're not very happy. In the third place, because this unification will allow a greater adaptation of the new colleges to technological and scientific innovations, to the challenge of the future, and at the same time allow them to act more effectively, it will allow them to act more effectively. And, in fourth place, the creation of a college with more muscles, with almost two thousand colleges, will allow you to give more and better services to the college, will facilitate a better defense of its interests, and will help to give, each time more, qualified services on behalf of the college and the same college, but not just the professional, but at the company's side. So, then, this bill of law was possible and necessary. They heard it from the government, the government understood it, but above all they saw the colleges now merged. Professional colleges are necessary for the colleges, but above all they are necessary for the society. In fact, when Catalonia did not have political power, it did have social fabric; among others, it had academies, it had agricultural organizations, it had trade and industrial organizations, and it also had professional colleges. In short, he was born, and the birth, where we make up all Catalans and Catalans, all civil society, still feel the most important. I would not, however, like to finish my intervention without congratulating one band, the Department of Justice and its adviser for the elaboration of this project, and also thank the great task of the promoters of this one: the collegis now merged and their hands and delegates. Finally, I want to thank the gathering of all parliamentary groups for this bill. Many thanks and lots of luck at the new professional college.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.130.0	Thank you, Mr. Gordo. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The draft law on the merger of the official colleges of agricultural and agricultural engineering in Catalonia and of forestry engineering in Catalonia in the College of Agricultural and Forestry Engineering in Catalonia has been approved by 129 votes in favour, against and against. [[Greetings.]] [[Proposal for a law amending Law 12/2009 of 10 July 2009 on education, to guarantee laicity (debate of totality)]] [[202-00003/11]] The third item on the agenda is the debate on the totality of the proposed law amending Law 12/2009, of 10 July, of education, to guarantee secularism. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, she presents the initiative, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, Ms.Jessica Albiach. [[Widow's remorse.]] They ask them, as always, to be silent and in a hurry, please, so that they can continue with the session. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Albiach, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.131.0	Yes, thank you, President. And good morning to everyone. Before I begin, I would like to welcome and thank Mrs. Carme Tolosana, who is with us today and who, as the Member of this Parliament, has done a great job of defending laity in school. Thank you, Carme. [[Greetings.]] See, we present this bill to guarantee the laity of the school financed with public money in Catalonia. We know that the religion in school is taken for the agreements that the Spanish State signed with the Vatican and for the current law of Spanish education. But we also believe that, if you are willing to disobey in all those aspects that seem unfair to us, it is also the time to be brave and to remove it from the educational centers, and not just the Catholic, but anyone else. What we ask is nothing but desideology of education and reserving religion to private circles. That is why the proposal we are making is very simple and only speaks of adding laity to the guiding principles of the education system. For what we bet is as simple as the separation of England and the State, and therefore to make the principle of confession complete in the maximum expression, that would be laity. We find ourselves with seals and signs of entry of religion into public life, and, in the face of the Republic, when there was a small parenthesis and it was agreed that the teaching would be secular and that the State would not hold official religion, with the Francoism we returned to the darkest era of our history with an alliance between dictatorship and religion, in concrete terms the Catholic, implanting it as a religion of state, and then we continue to have many privileges on the part of this Catholic Church. And as I will only say that the Spanish State brings to the Catholic Church, through direct subsidies and taxes, tax-free, a figure that exceeds 11,000_million euros per year; that thanks to the box available to the Catholic Church in the declaration of annual income there are 250_million euros left in the IRPF that should be for all of us and that takes the Catholic Church; that, besides, the Church, thanks to the mortgage law of 46– that it has had two modifications, one, in 2004, that still made it worse, and another, in 2015, that it did not fix it –, it has made use of thousands of everything that is good and absolute, that it can be understood as private, that it has been isolated, that it has been isolated, that it has not been repaired, and that it has been We see how this private entity, which remembers that when it signed the agreements of the 79 was committed to walking towards self-financing, continues to make proselytism paid for by all of us. And to reverse this situation, which we consider and which we believe to be archaic and counter to equality and distributive justice, which, moreover, the PSOE of Zapatero only made it worse, In Comú Podemos to the Congress has submitted a motion for a resolution to denounce and, therefore, annul the international agreements of the State and the Holy See, and we, from Catalonia, which we propose is to move towards the essential secularity that the school should have as a public institution; we propose that the confessional religion remain outside the education system, and, therefore, take it from the curriculum and from the school environment. And so do other institutions with secular Europe. Before the battle horses of the Catholic Church were divorce and aversion, but now, as on these issues there is already a certain social consensus and they have lost the capacity of influence, to which they cling to continue maintaining their privileges is to the fiscal issue, to the economic benefits and to the education system. And we see how they act as authentic lobbyists every time they warn and call on associations of couples and seas to go out on the street to stand against the cancellation of Christian school concerts or for or against certain political forces giving a ballot. And if this debate we think is necessary all the time, in Catalonia we still think it is more essential. And we don't say it because of the double network between public and concerted, completely disproportionate and which is only exceeded for Madrid; nor do we say it because of the seven schools that are, many of them from Opus, Catholic and that are concerted, each year receive 30 million euros, and we also don't say it because to the assumptions of encany, the ones that we are debating right now, the start is in more than 50 million euros for the concerted schools. These are already enough reasons, but it is that, moreover, according to the 2016 report of the Ferrer and Gardia Foundation, that of Laïcitat en chifres, they tell us that in Catalonia we take a step forward and that we have the highest percentage of the State in people who are not religious, the highest percentage of students who take alternative assignments in the place of religious teaching. We're talking about 71 percent of students in Catalonia prefer alternative assignments to religion, before 51 percent do so to the rest of the state. And besides, only 43 percent of families are in favor of their children being able to take religious classes; that is to say, only four out of every god's families want the religious assignment to be. And yet we must listen, as we always do, to the spokesman of the episcopal conference saying that "the secular position against the subject of religion is rancid and oblivious. So, well, it's very legitimate for the Episcopal Conference to defend its interests as the private entity that it is; now, we have the obligation to abolish its privileges, its ‘xiringuits' and correct the anomalies that we run from time to time as, for example, the employment situation of the religious masters. We are talking about teachers who are neither functioning nor acting, but who have a fixed place; who are recommended or not by the bishop of the diocese, who is the one who indicates their suitability, and who are more imparting contents that are marked for the Episcopal Conference, in particular for the Episcopal Commission of Teaching and Catechesis, which is the organization, coordination and promotion of their contents. But beyond who he imparts and in whom we condition the assignment of religion, we present this proposition of law basically for three reasons. The first, the school is the daughter of the illustration and must provide the State, because the power does not see God and sees the people; therefore, the people must take it from science and from reason and fight against ignorance and superstition. We don't think there's a nun in this place at any time. The second is that the functions of the school are no more than to guide scientific and rational knowledge, as well as to promote common civic values before interests and particular values of one or several religions, common values before private interests. And to what they say, moreover, that religiosity to the schools responds to a demand of the parents and the seas, that they believe that the school must take care of the moral and religious education of their children, we must make it clear that this is not the function of the school, that the function of the school is to educate without dogmas, in scientific knowledge, in humanistic and universal values, and in common ethical and democratic principles. That is to say, religion and Catholic morality can be taught to many other scenes in the private sphere and not financed for all of us in publicly funded educational centres. Finally, I will say – and this, moreover, is curious – that there is a sector of practicing Catholics who do not even agree that there is a religious assignment in the educational centers. Why, how is people's spirituality assessed or not? Of course, we are talking about contents marked for the Episcopal Conference, we are not talking about the history of religions. And the third reason we present this bill is that we are now living in a more plural society than ever before. Therefore, the multi-denominationality of the school that some sectors promote only in our doorway towards tribalization. That is to say, the situation of privileges that Catholic church has does not fit with many other religions, for much that, if there is a mistake, for much that we repeat seven times, it does not cease to be a mistake. In other words, schools cannot be a place of exclusion or discrimination, and therefore children cannot be separated by family beliefs or beliefs. We agree that the public school must be a place to find, where education with value, emotional management and critical thinking, and not a space to charge neither dogmas nor superstitions. If we pretend to make the public school an area of coexistence, of reference, of social cohesion, of equality of opportunity, we cannot have a place of religion or segregation. And here, in addition, we link up with a background theme, which is what kind of public school model we want and what public school model we need and what resources we need to make it possible. So, we want an extensive and powerful public school network, which, moreover, must be participatory and democratic, and which is not submissive or not submissive to a second-hand assumption while the concerted school has a first-hand assumption. A concert that, moreover, is financed by the taxes of many working and popular class families, who then see how they can not bring their children to these schools because they cannot pay the quotas that are imposed. We want a public school with resources, resources for school transport, for teaching materials, for artistic lessons, for schools in Bressol, to hire teachers and teachers. Let us remember that on February 9th there is a wave called for educational unions in defense of decent working conditions and for a decent staff that can make the unfoldings and educational attention that our children deserve. In short, our public school needs many things that do not come to the present proposal of educational assumptions. And as they always say that Catalonia's financial situation does not allow us to go further than the proposal we have made, we present this proposal for law, which does not cost a euro. And I ended up because there is no doubt: we obviously propose to protect the right to religion and worship, but from the absolute neutrality of the State and the private sphere. And it is clear that we believe that we have to explain what role religions have played in the history of humanity from a point of view of social sciences, not from confessionalism. In short, we do not want indoctrination, but neither do we want ignorance. And it would be good, I would say essential, to overcome already the Stockholm syndrome that some have with the Catholic religion and break the mots of the past, because betting for secularism is to defend the common spaces, where we must add and not remain, where the construction of collective identity is to be done from what we have in common, which are not other than republican values, and to reserve the religions or creeds of each of them to the private sphere. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.132.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Next, in order to defend the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, Ms. Montserrat Palau has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.133.0	Thank you, President. Counselor..., Together for the Yes we present a statement to the totality of this proposed law amending the Catalan Education Law. It is not strange, and the motium, the only motium, is clear: as we have said other times, as other companies and companies in my group have said and repeated in this very case, Together for the Yes will vote against amending the Catalan Education Law. We follow our electoral program, maintain and deploy the LEC while not having a Catalan education law that incorporates all the educational skills that now correspond to the Spanish State. The LEC is an autonomous law in a state_mark. This Parliament and the Catalan Government are not – we are not – legislative authorities in the field of education, and that is what we want to change. We have discussed various motions, proposals or popular legislative initiatives relating to the LEC in this same forum, and our position, in this sense, has always been that of not changing it. Today we are talking about a proposal that your group presented already in 2015 – well, Initiative, the Greens, United Left and Alternative – and a proposal that in its presentation refers to the LOMCE, that it may remember that, if not, it did not apply to Catalonia. And a proposal that wants to affect, or guarantee, as Congresswoman Albiach said, the laity of the Catalan school. You spoke of laity, you defended laity, that is, freedom of worship and conscience and separation between England, England and the State. We agree, totally agree – totally agree – to defend a civic, positive and essential value in order to co-ordinate our society, since laity is the right mark to exercise the freedom of conscience of all citizens, of all people, whether they believe, atheist or agnostic. Moreover, it guarantees the institutional separation between civil and religious representation. Laicity is a value and a_mark present in our laws, as is the case with the Status and the LEC. You talked about changing the LEC, but to change it for the sense of laity we would also have to change the Statute; the two things would have to go together. The proposal presented for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot consists of four additions and a final arrangement. The first theme aims to focus on the general principles and the rest, above all, emphasize the quality of secular school. To our understanding, this quality is already collected – or guaranteed, as you have said – both in the State and in the LEC. You propose an addition to Article 1 on the general principles of values that govern the Catalan education system and add a new apartment that makes explicit reference to laity. We consider that the Catalan public school is secular, as stated in Article 21 of the Statute of Autonomy, on rights and rights in the field of education, and concretely at point 2, when it says: "The seas and the couples have guaranteed, in accordance with the principles established for Article 37.4, the right to assist them so that the children have the religious and moral formation that they agree with the convictions of the schools of public title – like – in which the teaching is secular. I've marked the comma, as we talked about the other day with former counsel Rigau, I'm doing this kind of thing, and I'm also doing the power of philology and the power of punctuation signs. For what you do to the two later additions, you talk about students sunning a knowledge of natural reality and also allowing the students a world-wide overture without dogmas in the classroom. The LEC, in this Article 52, on curriculum contents, guarantees these requests, and also Article 53 makes it possible for the autonomy of the centre to deploy the curriculum according to its educational project. Therefore, the Statute of Catalonia defines teaching in Catalonia as secular and the LEC follows this principle. It is clear, therefore: in the guiding principles of the LEC there is already the condition of laity. And for what it does to the subjects that ask as much as the knowledge of the natural and social reality used in science and reason, as that it allows the students to an overture to the world without dogmas to the classroom, these are already contemplated also in article 52.2 b, on the curriculum, which marks that "it is necessary to enable the students to understand the environment and to relate themselves to an active, critical, cooperative and responsible way. That is to say, their requests, in our opinion, are also collected in the LEC, which regulates this ability to relate to the environment with a critical and, therefore, with a scientific knowledge and without standards. Now, if I may, if the groups in this Parliament want to focus on the values of laity, let's talk about it, but not through this proposal or this law, but the mark of the process is what we want. We are betting on a new law of Catalan education that will have to be the result of consensus and negotiation; we are starting to talk about it, so we are starting to talk about secularism in this future rather than just in public school, but also in the constitutional framework. Start the debate. We can follow the contributions of the past, which also mark our present and still go farther. We follow the line, for example, of the modern school, driven by Francesc Ferrer and Guàrdia, who wanted to experience a secular methodology, which aspired to use education as a transformative tool of society. O the renovating school of the Second Republic, a school as defined in article 11 of the Statue of Núria: "The primary teaching will be compulsory, free and catal for language and for its hope; it will be inspired by the ideals of work, freedom, social justice and human solidarity, and it will be developed by means of educational institutions related to each other for the unified school system. In all degrees he'll be secular. Let's go through this very future and promote a competitively full law that promotes values of solidarity, coexistence and tolerance, all knowing and respecting different cultures, beliefs or religions. We take into account, moreover, our reality – you have not made any. According to the 2016 latest annual report of the Ferrer and Gardia Foundation, which regressed data from the people hidden in 1979, in Catalonia the 40_per_cent of the population is declared not to be attached to options of religious consciousness. Then, then, we bet, as it is now backwards, but with more emphasis, if only, for a non-dogmatic education, based on free thought, ethical values and moral autonomy. Religions and spiritual creeds belong to private and intimate circles, and their transmission should be circumscribed to creed communities. And precisely secularism, as it is a civil, universalistic and independent ethic of any confession or ideology, is open to all cultural, philosophical, scientific and also – I repeat – contributions to religions that are capable of developing critical reflections and compared to the abscess of the demands of a citizenry that must be responsible and informed. Thus, women of public circles, spaces that guarantee freedom of thought and pluralism, conciliable with the main ethical and spiritual values of different cultures and religions. They cannot ignore or obviate the acquisition of knowledge—knowledge—about religions, creeds, cults, or mythology. But from some public schools, with freedom of conscience, and to form the critical capacity of a responsible citizenry. Women, even more, as you have asked, a Catalan school in which the ethics of egalitarian respect and the right to freedom of conscience follow the pillars of an education with democratic and humanistic values, respect for individual guarantees and human rights. By means of secular education, one can achieve respect for the freedom of conscience of all people, both those who choose for certain creeds or religions, as well as those who do not. But not today, not now, not even here. We present the message to the totality because it is not the LEC, when we hear it, I repeat, that I need to modify. The current Catalan Education Law has an expiry date. And let me be clear, advancing to evil and/or interested interpretations: we do not vote against secularism; together we vote against amending the Catalan Education Law. You know, you've heard it many times in this same hemisphere, in this same Faristol, about different initials presented: Together for the Yes we have voted and will vote against, now for now, to modify the Catalan Education Law. We are committed, together and diverse, to our program, which passes to maintain and deploy the LEC, but also not to modify an instrument like the LEC at these times. We want our education law, subject only to our legislative framework, not to the current state framework. Let's talk about laity, but let's do it to make a new law; an organic law, a law that is not subject to any other – neither to LOMCE nor to any other organic law, nor to laws of state assumptions – which is our law of education. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.134.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palau. Next, in order to defend the totality presented by the Popular Group of Catalonia, has the word María José García Cuevas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.135.0	Thank you, President. Well, I add to the welcome of the honourable Member of Catalonia Yes, she is Pot, and I also welcome the students who are with us, who are on the European Parliament's project. Well, Catalunya Yes, it is Pot presents us with a bill to eradicate religious indoctrination in the classrooms. And of course in the People's Party of Catalonia we are against indoctrination in schools, in a radical and militant way, without nuances. I believe that if any group has been characterized for years by this is the Popular Group, and if not, that they ask it to the deputy Rigau of the years in which she was Councillor of Teaching and had to answer us questions in Full, interpellations, questions in commission, written questions... We even present a proposal of law to avoid politicization in and of the schools, in defense of the political neutrality of the public spaces, that we fell between the old Convergence and Union, Esquerra, PSC, CUP and the predecessor group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot, Initiative per Catalunya Verds - Esquerra Unita i Alternativa. Remember the number of photos I taught myself in plenary session; photos to illustrate the indoctrination that, unfortunately, many students and families have to endure every day in certain schools where, except for some students, directors or teachers, they impose on all their political ideas. The separatists, of course. So many photos I showed that even one day the then Consteller Rigau told me that I better spend the money of the photos on dining grants. But, anyway, you've got to be kidding me. Our constancy against indoctrination and intoxication of minors, I don't think it needs further proof or explanation. However, it is curious the selective rejection of Catalonia Yes it is Pot to indoctrination of minors. Because, for example, as I was telling you, Members of your predecessor group have never supported our proposals, motions and legislative proposals against political indoctrination in schools. Political proselytism with minors is seen to be more acceptable to Catalonia Yes, it is Pot than religious. Well, we don't see it that way. We believe that children go to school to learn and become free, capable and valuable adults and no one has the right to impose on them a certain way of thinking or seeing life. And less so when that way of thinking or seeing life is not shared or authorized by your parents. Parents – we have repeated it many times from this rostrum – have the right to send their children to school calmly that they will not be intoxicated, that they will not be imposed values, principles or ideas that they do not share. Because – and this is the nuclear element of the debate – parents are responsible for the education of their children. And they have the fundamental right to have their children brought up according to their convictions and values, their own principles, and not according to the values, principles or convictions of a teacher, the school principal or the shift politician responsible for education. And so it is established in the Constitution, in article 27.3. Therefore, of course, we are against indoctrination of children in schools; this is not at all incompatible with being in favour of parents deciding and controlling the moral and religious training their children receive. All this, logically, framed by respect for our democratic principles of coexistence and our fundamental rights and freedoms, as also provided for in Article 27 of the Constitution, paragraph 2. And this is the limit of parental rights. And, therefore, the State is empowered to act and protect minors from the convictions of their parents contrary to our democratic principles, to the fundamental rights and freedoms of their children or of our society, as is the case, regret, for example, of ablation. But if the parents' moral and religious convictions do not contradict or violate the principles, rights and freedoms that underpin our coexistence, parents have the full right to train their children in these values. And the Administration has no power or right to interfere contrary to the will of the parents. In this case, the Administration cannot and should not decide for them. Another debate is whether the moral or religious formation legitimately decided by parents for their children can or should not be conducted in public school or, rather, in publicly funded centres. As to whether one can, we enter into the debate of the difference between the confessional state and the secular state, what kind of state is Spain and, therefore, what applies legally to Catalonia: the public confessional approach or the laity. And do not confuse laity with laity. In general, it is understood as a secular state that absolutely excludes religion and religious fact from the public sphere, establishing mechanisms to limit it strictly to the private sphere. On the other hand, the confessional state is one that does not recognize any confession as an official religion but takes into account the majority religious beliefs in society, establishing agreements and cooperative relations with these religions. And to finish clarifying differences, the confessional state, which is the opposite of the secular – not secular – state, would be the one that not only allows the religious fact in public life, but is decanted by a specific religion, declares it official and gives it an even exclusive treatment with respect to other religions. In short, in a secular state – the one that asks Catalonia Yes that it is Pot – religious teaching cannot be taught outside the private sphere. Religion must therefore remain outside educational institutions supported by public funds. However, in confessional and confessional states, religious education is possible in schools supported with public funds because, legally, these states recognize and admit the religious fact outside the private sphere. The difference between the two would be the number of religions allowed: in the confessional, only one religion, the official, would have presence, and in the confessional, all the major religions with which the State has established conventions could be present in the schools. And the latter is the case of Spain, as reflected in article 16.3 of the Constitution. Literal: "No confession shall have a state character. The public authorities will take into account the beliefs of the majority of Spanish society and will maintain the consequent relations of cooperation with the Catholic Church and other confessions. And this is also interpreted by the Constitutional Court in numerous rulings, I will not list them all, which conclude that the Constitution defines Spain as an aconfessional – non-laityist state, as declaring that the public authorities must be neutral in religious matters, also imposes on them the mandate to take into account the religious fact and to cooperate with the majority confessions. The public authorities in Spain, by constitutional mandate, cannot be contrary, passive or hostile to the religious fact. On the contrary, they must consider what is positive in society, recognizing and protecting the right to religious freedom, which also consolidates the Constitution in the first paragraph of Article 16. In short, the public authorities in Spain cannot legally relegate religion to the private sphere. Therefore, if Catalonia, as part of the aconfessional state that is Spain, is legally aconfessional– is not legally laicist–, the Catalan public authorities have the constitutional mandate to allow the religious fact in public life. And this, in fact, is the situation in most of the countries in our environment, where, unlike states such as France or the United States, which proclaim strict secularism, or Greece, which is the only confessional state of the European Union, the majority are proclaimed confessional, usually with a special consideration towards the majority religion with which there are historical, cultural or tradition bonds. And this is the case of Ireland, Italy, the German Catholic Länder, England, Sweden or, as we said, Spain. Although one thing is to allow religious fact and another is to be obliged to include religious teaching in public institutions. We've analyzed if we can. Now let us see whether or not it should be included in the teaching. And this will depend on the remaining applicable legality. In the case of Spain, and therefore Catalonia, the Constitution, in addition to defining Spain as an aconfessional state, proclaims in article 27.3: "The right of parents to have their children acquire their moral and religious beliefs and values provided that these values are not contrary to our democratic rules of coexistence and the religion they profess is a majority in our society, and therefore agreements of collaboration with that religion have been established from the State. And in this same article, in 27.3, the public authorities are obliged not only to allow, but to guarantee the teaching of religion in the educational system. From a legal point of view, therefore, religion must be included in public education. In short, the subject of religion or the possibility of not choosing the, is not any retrograde commercialist ideological invention of the LOMCE, as says here Catalunya Yes it is Pot, it is a fundamental right of the parents since 1978, included in the first title of our Constitution. And this is the legal, official and objective reality, without voluntarism or political positions. And this is the official and objective legal reality that we must all respect – also Catalonia Yes that it is Pot –, apart from legitimate discrepancies or legitimate personal or political positions that may be radically contrary to this reality, but that do not enable anyone – anyone – to fail or induce to fail to comply with constitutional obligations, in this case, to allow and facilitate religious education in schools supported with public funds, at the request of parents and for majority religions. And also the legal, official and objective reality that Spain is an aconfessional state, by logical consistency with the Constitution, is established in the organic laws related to the subject, such as the Law of Religious Freedom or the Organic Law of Education, the LOGSE, modified by the LOMCE. In particular, in the field of compulsory primary and secondary education, religious education is recognized as a right by basic standards, but on a voluntary basis for pupils according to the parents'criteria and without discrimination. And these, as organic laws, have higher legal status than any autonomous law, so it is possible, in terms of democratic quality, to propose a modification of the LEC that contradicts and violates the principles and rights established and consolidated in the Constitution, in the Law on Religious Freedom or in the Basic Norm of Education. In order to be able to approve the amendment proposed by Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, the Constitution, the Law on Religious Freedom, the LOGSE and the LOMCE should be amended in advance. We don't say that it can't be done, but that's where the Catalonian group should start.Yes, it is Pot, or Podemos, or Commons, or whatever it may be called the political group that can represent these secularist interests in the democratic areas that can change the Constitution, the Law on Religious Freedom or the organic laws of education. Lay interests which are perfectly legitimate, but which today remain clearly outside our legal framework, and which cannot be imposed from this Parliament without incurring a serious democratic transgression with liberalized hues. "Democratic transgression because the essential democratic principles of legal certainty and regulatory hierarchy would be violated. And freed because the ultimate objective of this secularist change is to end a freedom that we enjoy today in the public sphere, freedom to the public presence and to the public religious manifestation. It seeks to end a right that we have today, which is the right that we can decide whether or not we want our children to receive a class of religion; even the right to choose which religion, of the majority, we want them to receive: the Catholic, the Evangelical, the Jewish or the Islamic. Summarizing, in the amendment to the proposal for a law on secularism in Catalonia as a whole Yes, it is Pot is justified for legal reasons of coherence and legal certainty, of respect for our legal framework of coexistence, but also for reasons of defence of individual freedom, of the fundamental rights that we enjoy, freedoms and rights that must pride any advanced society and that we believe our obligation is to maintain and defend those of freed offensives such as this proposal that we are debating today. In the present situation, in our confessional Catalonia, no one is imposed on the class of religion, no student is religiously indoctrinated, as the proposal says in a pejorative sense, nor is he subjected to any single spectrum of values or to a unified moral and religious direction, as the proposal says. We have already explained that there are several legal options for religious education that must be present in the public offering, and always the teaching of religion is done after choice and choice of parents. Therefore, there is neither a single spectrum nor a unified moral direction, nothing is imposed on anyone, on the contrary, parents are given a freedom that they do not have in a secular state: whether or not they choose religious education in public institutions. Nor does this freedom of choice prejudice the coexistence of religious plurality in Catalonia, as the proposal also tells us. It would seem rather the reverse: that in a society where the secularist state establishes mechanisms to avoid any public religious manifestation, where the religious fact must live in private, let us not say in some extreme cases that we all have in the mind of radical secularist states, which pursue the religious fact, where we have to live this fact in secret, clandestinely, we believe that in these societies religious coexistence is more difficult and perhaps impossible. A society that separates and hides the religious fact in its diversity is a society to which religious plurality is most unknown, and it is always more difficult to live with what is unknown. In short, apart from the legal impossibility of dealing with this bill in this Parliament, my group's amendment is based on our conviction that we must preserve the individual freedoms and rights we enjoy; freedoms and rights that are the property of an advanced society and that sectarian proposals such as the one we are discussing put at risk. A sectarian proposal, because it seeks to impose on everyone the option of a few, nullifying the rest, and this is exclusionary and intransigent. Because, we repeat, in the current situation, this part of society contrary to the religious fact, to learn what in school, can already choose its option. It does not go with us nor do we believe that it benefits the general interest nor does it benefit religious plural coexistence to cut freedoms or impose on everyone what is worth a part. We believe that it is dogmatic and intolerant to take the option of religious teaching from schools, because the current situation allows non-religious teaching, and also allows religious teaching. And this framework of being able to choose between several options, even opposite ones, is a good framework of freedom, respect and coexistence. Freedom to choose, even to mislead us, but freedom for no administration authorized by libertarian laws to decide for us what is right for our children. Freedom to choose, to be different in a plural society that respects each one's decisions. That is why it is our duty and our responsibility to defend, with arguments and pragmatism, with radicality and determination, our pluralism and our freedom, which, as you see, we do not have as much assurance as it would seem. And only from us, from the votes of you Members and Members who are convinced that our society is better off with more freedom and not less, depends on whether or not we can maintain it. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.136.0	Thank you, Congresswoman [[Greetings. Some MPs peck their hands at the bait.]] For the turn against the word "Jessica Albiach".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.137.0	Thank you, President. So, you know, let's get back to the typical whole thing that they present together for the Yes and the Popular Party when it comes to defending the interests of the always: a proposal..., or follow, a whole thing, just like they did against the ILP of education, against ending up with the concerts of the schools that secrete by sex or against a tax reform because the ones who have the most pay more. Or keep them doing the same old policy again. That's right, they're giving us different arguments. Together for the Yes, Mrs. Palau, tells us again that now it is not possible to open the apple of the LEC ; a phrase so repeated that it does not necessarily have to be true. You have explained to us, you have made a presentation of the LEC articulation, and in the end the truth is that it has not become clear to us whether they want the religion to remain outside the school curriculum or not, whether they believe that dogmas and adoption have nothing to do with the education that our infants must have, and more often than not, kicking forward, always waiting for magical moments that never arrive or that we don't know when they will arrive. We can't waste any more time. Before the process, I replace him to make a joint motion for a resolution, to bring the religion out of school hours, and we solve the problem. Please, start mulling now, once and for all, and do not continue to imagine behind laws that, moreover, consider autonomous. And on behalf of the People's Party, therefore, Mrs Cuevas has used this bill's proposal to follow with the usual poisoning that the People's Party already does to us, to spread rumors about the independence politics that is given to the Catalan public school. And they speak of selective rejection of political indoctrination. So, this choice of political adoption is made by you, and it is clear that the public school is not politically adopted. And, in addition, the second argument put forward by Mrs Cuevas refers to the freedom of parents and mothers to choose the education that their children must receive. Well, parents and mothers have full freedom to decide whether they want their children to take over the religious assignment. But we don't even have to pay for this, nor do we need to do it at school. There are many scenes outside the public sphere where they can take this..., well, "this indoctrination, I won't say, only religious classes. And you also take over the Constitution and say, "That's what's in the Constitution. Well, it is that many things come to the Constitution, such as Article 47, which says that "all Spaniards have the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing, and it is still the day that I have not seen any member of the People's Party putting up with a denunciation. Or he's also collecting the right to a decent job, and it's still the day... on the contrary, what the People's Party is doing every time it can be a new job reform to pre-characterize the conditions of workers and workers. We also need the public authorities to ensure, through adequate and regularly updated pensions, the economic sufficiency of older citizens, and to see what kind of poverty pensions are left to us by the Spanish Government and the People's Party. So, they do the favor and they're still honest, because what we're seeing today is an apology for not standing in front of the Christian lobby and continuing to maintain the usual privileges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.138.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Then, to fix its position, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.139.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, MPs, deputies and people who are with us today. Citizens are the lords of the illustrious principles of progressive liberalism, and we believe that the State must be confessional and secular, but that, yes, respecting everyone's beliefs. And we don't want anyone to feel offended when it comes to these issues, because we have absolute respect for everyone's beliefs. And we also think that parents have the right to sort out the education they want for their children. When I was beaten, I had a history teacher who was said to be Eduard, and he explained to us that when the human being did not have an explanation for the cycles of the stations, a god of the stations was invented, and when the human being did not have an explanation for the day and the night, a god of the dark and a god of the light was invented, and when he did not have an explanation for the rain and the storms, a god was invented to explain these meteorological phenomena. And as scientific explanations were given to all these phenomen, these gods were born, and now we have only one god left, which is the god of life, more than death. And that, if one day it's discovered if there's anything or not after death, that god also does. Without doubt, Edward was right, but not all, because spirituality has always been present in the history of humanity, and when, for example, prehistory is fundamental, when human remains are found, whether they have mortal rites or not, because that is what determines whether they have the ability to reflect if there is anything after death. I, as Luce López-Baralt says, one of the greatest studies of Saint John of the Cross, « the mystery of the human being is inexhaustible and always in force at any time. As in all times, spirituality, understood with depth and freedom, brings us closer to others. Mystic experience is key to interreligious dialogue and respect for the cultural otherness of one's neighbour. In fact, where traditional religions fall, all kinds of new age creeds flourish quickly, which are usually very profitable for those people who make them up. And if religions have been so successful at the length of history, it is surely because they help to hear a life that is always changing and always uncertain and responds to human hopes and pores. Nor can we hear the history of art and literature without having religious references. I, personally, am a great lover of mystique and have among my favorite readings, to which I always return, Saint John of the Cross, Saint Teresa of Jesus and the Gita Govinda, which is one of the most important books of the literature in Sanskrit; and we can not forget, and less so in the year we have just passed, of the texts of Ramon Llull. Therefore, I consider it very important to explain the religion to the schools, in order to better understand our culture. In fact, religion is very important for many of the members and governors of all of Catalonia, as we were able to prove one month ago, because all those who struggled to say that they worked on 6 December because the Constitution does not represent them, and it is also true that for many to work it is to work together to make a selfie, so well, all those who worked on 6 December because the Constitution does not represent them, what did they do on 8 December? Guard parties, absolute pick-up. Because it turns out that the Constitution does not represent them, but the fact that Mary was conceived without original sin does represent them and therefore on the 8th of December they did not go to work; which is certainly the day of the patroness of Spain. So, as you will understand, I really like to see so much spirituality and so much Spanish patriotism between the governors and the deputies of Catalonia, even though I am more of the civil values and believe that the Constitution does represent me. The fact of explaining religions can help the intercultural dialogue, as the words of Luce López-Baralt that I have just quoted say. And it seems normal that we should devote more attention to Christianity, because it is the one that most influences our culture. It is necessary to keep knowledge of Christianity in order to better understand our literature, our sculpture, our painting and our architecture. And in this sense, Michelle Obama's words seem very relevant to his comedy speech, when he said – and I quote it textually, and forgive me, because the translation is mine –: "If you are a person of faith, remember that religious diversity is a huge North American tradition as well, and the first ones who came to this country were able to make their cults freely. Already you are Muslim, Christian or Jewish, these religions teach our young man justice, understanding and honesty – the end of the appointment. So, we agree with the lady of the United States at the time of expressing maximum respect for religious diversity. On the other hand, as I said, we are the godfather of the illustrious principles of progressive liberalism and we believe that the State must be confessional and education, secular. "Laica means that we do not want indoctrination: neither do we want religion, but neither do we want nationalism, but unfortunately we have different exhibitions. We recognize, yes, the importance of the religious phenomenon. I, as we have already said, are supporters of teaching, of the study of religions, starting from the premise of laity. We are not pleased that the debate on education ended by simplifying itself in religion, yes, or religion, as the old politician has always done. We think that the education system in general, and the catalá in particular, must be reconsidered among all, and the new education reform must be more based on educational criteria than not ideological, as has happened so far, that we have, from a band, the PSOE's education law or the PP's education law. We trust the National Pact for Education, because we are the promoters, and we want the next Education Law not to be from one party or another, but to be a law with broad consensus and lasting a generation, not a legislature, as it has been so far. We don't want it to be the law of the PP or the law of the PSOE: we want a law where everyone feels comfortable. We also hope that Mrs. Ruiz doesn't act like Mr. Puigdemont, who left the catalan chair empty at the Presidents' Conference, and she did go to represent the catalan and to participate in the better education. In any case, while the National Education Pact does not come up, we are always open to talking about education, we do not expect the constituent processes of Narnia, now that it seems to be a good time to start any debate, but this does not mean that we share the statement of reasons for this proposal of law, nor the speech made by Mrs Albiach. We also think that, with all the problems that education has and that Mrs Albiach herself has explained, perhaps this is not the issue that matters most at this time, that we should be talking about other things, such as the more than a thousand barracks, that the Generality does not intend a single euro for children's education, to have an education system with a single vehicle language that prevents our young man from being in equal opportunities with the rest of Europe. And we also believe that all these things that you see at LOMCE are in fact conjured up, because this law hasn't been able to unfold at all, and now it's stuck. And it starts, or so we expect, a stage of dialogue and negotiation to achieve among all an education law that has as much consent as possible and where everyone can feel comfortable and all creations are respected. Thus, we place all political parties to participate in the National Pact for Education in an open and conciliatory way, so that we can have one of the best educational systems in the world, without losing our efforts in ideological battles of the old politics. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.140.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. Next, the words of Mrs Esther Niubó, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.141.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Before the king, then, I went so far as to see that we were in favour of dealing with this bill and, therefore, against the arguments put forward by the People's Party and Juntes per el Si. Again – it has also been mentioned – it is no coincidence that..., and we see as PP and Together for the Yes, so they share the model. In education, therefore, it is clear: we see it in every vote that is made in this chamber, in refusing to suppress the concerts to the schools that they secret, in refusing to process the ILP of education... And, well, we see that maybe Citizens in this case will also join us, right? But in any case, it doesn't just go to education, but it would donate for a lot. So, in this parliamentary term, the Socialist Group has also entered a proposal for a law amending the Education Law, which we hope is discussed in this early plenary, focused mainly on two questions. One, known, suppresses the public support of the schools that secrete by sex, and this we do not plant for one day for the other, only after a transitional period that would allow those centers to adapt to the one set by the new principles of co-education computers by means exclusively of mixed schooling. And second, to strengthen the local authorities in the framework of the programming of the educational offer, so that the emphasis is placed on the need for the Government, therefore, to take into account these joints at the time of creating, modifying or suppressing educational lines. Therefore, information and participation of local authorities also in the decision making process. And, said that, therefore, we share, with the text of the proposal of law that Catalonia raises to us Yes, it is Pot, that laity must be one of the guiding principles of the Catalan education system, and therefore we see with good eyes the direction of its proposal. But we would appreciate it if at the time of opening the LEC, when there was a majority in favour of its modification, so it was not only to modify two or three articles, as it is now, but to make a deeper review of it. Moreover, we think that it would give for a long debate, and deep, taking into account the current correlation of forces of this Parliament. I say why Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, so it has presented in this legislature two or three very partial legislative proposals of modification of the LEC, than perhaps, therefore, they would surely have more strength if it were discussed together. But, well, as I was saying, so, we're already positioning ourselves, one by one, and so today we're focusing on this. Since the PSC, it is obvious that we defend a model of society that guarantees equal opportunities in access to public space and, therefore, prevents any abuses or moral monopoly in this space by a particular vision of reality. We defend secularism as an essential value of democracy, a guarantee for the people to respect freedom of worship, freedom of conscience, precisely to ensure the coexistence of religious plurality, today very present in our country; it is, in other words, secularized as an instrument of coexistence. And this has an institutional expression that is historically summarized in the principle of separation, therefore, from the State of any confession, as well as the neutrality of public powers and their institutions before religion, which allows the creation of a public space common to everyone, regardless of the convictions of the belief or faith system of every citizen. And, on the other hand, laity has a more individual dimension, with a long pedagogical tradition in Catalonia known: right to a non-dogmatic education, for free thought, moral autonomy, without any code of values interfering in the free development of the same consciousness. And this means that the realm of knowledge of the religious fact that laity does not only defend and respect, but guarantees, must be framed in the realm of knowledge of the social sciences, of the history of culture, so that religious formation should not affect or affect public space – school – or its resources, but it would be better to understand that it belongs to the private sphere of the citizens. In other words, we understand that the school must learn to be citizens, the school as a public space of formation of the citizenry, the teaching as a universal right, free of charge, based on a humanist philosophy, respectful with all possible spiritual, philosophical, relaxed option to the community; therefore, an area of citizenship not divided by religious denominations, which promotes or plays a role in promoting free thinking, freedom of conscience, critical ability, responsible citizenship, a place where science and culture are taught and educated by plurality and coexistence. This is the school we want. And that would mean that the religion abandoned the school financed with public funds and left, therefore, the adaptation to specific areas of worship and faith. Now, it is true that, despite the fact that it is a confessional state, such as the Constitution of 78, and even taking into account the growing secularization of society, we recognize that the relationship that has been established still today between the public authorities and the denominations recognized in the country, and in a privileged way to the Catholic Church, therefore, does not allow us to claim that our institutions are truly secular. Reference has been made to article..., the LEC, for example, in article 93.2, but it does say that the public school is defined as inclusive, secular, respectful with plurality, and also the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia states that the teaching is secular to the schools of public title. But, despite these dispositions, to prevail the agreement signed between the Spanish State and the Vatican on the 79th, today we have that the concerted school, unlike the end of the Francoism and during the Transition, when in Catalonia there was a concerted secular school that represented democratic progressive values, is today largely..., and says largely, therefore, I do not generalize it, but I say that it is largely religious, and therefore confessional with public money. Freedom, as Congresswoman Caves said, yes, of the couples, but it's different freedom than right. Religious concerted schools in general do not offer an alternative to religion either, if well, as was also mentioned in the Ferrer and Guardia report of this year 2016, of the past..., says Catalonia is the autonomous community with a higher percentage of students who end up in alternative activities to religion, and in public schools when offering religion is normally limited to the Catholic offer. Therefore, it is obvious the need to review and adapt all this legislation, to avoid interference with certain confessions that these may exercise in the common space, in public resources, in the public education service in this case. And that's why we can't expect independence, so we can do it now. It is also true that there is a job that goes beyond this Parliament, the issue of renegotiating the agreement with the Vatican, knowing that it is a pre-constitutional gestation agreement, rethinking the agreements between the State and the different religions, or the same derogation from the LOMCE. But surely we can work to advance on more concrete issues, such as the modification of the LEC to strengthen the secular character of the Catalan education system, to shield it also before a retrograde and indoctrination model. It is very thanks that the People's Party says it is against indoctrination; so, the LOMCE what is it, but a law that indoctrinates? , a law that we hope will continue from the past but which is still in force and which, therefore, as I said, led to this approval of the People's Party LOMCE. We could also go further and ensure, therefore, that the formation of children and young people in some tradition or cultural or philosophical religion is done outside the lectual timetable and, therefore, in a different way, without matching with any subject matter; we could review celebrations of the school calendar; we could modify programs of activities subsidized for administrations very related to religion, and, of course, we thought that it would also be safe to suppress concerts with these sex-secreting schools. But, well, in the land of the most concrete, which is what we are dealing with today, it seems very correct to us the plans of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, and, therefore, I am counting on us to introduce the necessary reforms to guarantee precisely the secular character of our public powers, institutions, and also the education of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.142.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. Next, has the word Mr. Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.143.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, go to the point that our group also supports Catalonia's initiative Yes, it is Pot and, therefore, we will vote against the totality papers presented by Juntes for the Yes and the Popular Party, as we share the background and the ends that you are putting forward through this bill. And we also have to worry or worry about this, sometimes, fixed that the government and Juntes for the Yes present in the sense of practically considering the LEC irremovable, right? , which sometimes reminds us of the fact that we are above both the government and the Spanish state that the Constitution is irreplaceable. The laws are alive, the laws evolve and can continually change in agreement, therefore, with what marks the good sense of society and, therefore, its political expression in terms of the legislative transformation that at every moment remain, right? Therefore, we must express our concern and concern about this immobilism that we have already seen in the case of the ILP and that we will now see again in the case of this proposal of the Law. And, indeed, we cannot wait for the republic to make changes and changes, among other things, because the country that we will have at the time of the republic, to a large extent, will also be conditioned and determined for what we build from today. Therefore, there are debates that, if we move them forward, all that we will have won and all that we will have saved at the time of the new country and the new republic. Actually, I also say that when we talk about laity at school you also go to memory, so thankfully Ferrer and Gardia's case, right? , and from the free school of Ferrer and Guardia, our liberating schools, which really marked an indisputable reference in which is the history of our teaching and our public teaching. And, therefore, with regard to the debate that we now have in this chamber, it seems relevant to me, therefore, to remember the memory and the current and the validity of those experiences of teaching that we had at one of the brightest, most creative and most advanced moments of our national history. Getting into the debate we're dealing with for what it does to the background and the purpose of this bill's proposal, I want to point out that, actually – as it has already been said, but, uh? But I want to point this out – the problem that we really have at these times in our country for what it does for secularism, the challenge that we really have for what it does for the debate about secularism at school, is directly related to the problem of the indoctrination that Catholic Church does in certain schools. But what is more worrying and more worrying is that they are school centres that through concerts are given public funding important. But let me point out that, besides, we are giving public money, we are giving around 30_million euros to concerted centres that are Opus Dei, which is a particularly worrying problem. We are not going out, we are not going out trying to eliminate this problem in the mark of autonomy; we hope it will be a problem that we can finally overcome in the mark of the republic, indeed, because the problem is very worrying. Many observers, various European international observers, who continue to keep an eye on and investigate the phenomenon of psychological manipulation groups – which, before we call them destructive sects – agree to qualify Opus Dei as a psychological manipulation group. Therefore, we have a difficult problem. [[applause]] When we are providing public money in a more than remarkable way to groups of psychological manipulation that take advantage of the concerted schools for the duration of their indoctrination task. Well, so, indeed, you will have to arrive at the moment when we disobey the LOMCE, when we will have to disobey the agreement with the Vatican, among many other things, to finish with the privileges that the Catholic Church has in the school sphere so as not to bring public money to school centres that include religious teaching in their curriculum, and, indeed, therefore, to suppress concerts in those school centres that secrete, discriminate and convert the educated space into a religious area, and effectively situate the religion and production and reproduction in the field that they correspond to, that is the private and community environment. In addition, and in relation to the subject of laity, we also want to give this debate a brief reflection on what we believe should be the necessary opening of a debate for the purpose of rethinking the concept and practice of laity, not only in autonomy, but above all in thinking about the process and the debate are that we hope to approach it quickly before the construction of our republic. In this sense, we want to point out how Europe has failed the two great models that dominated the social debate and the public debate and the institutional debate for which it makes the approach of diversity grow on the European continent and in our countries. It has failed the Anglo-Saxon model, the multicultural model, said in a synthetic and summarized way, that model which, as it gives normality to inequality, therefore, already considers that cultural diversity is no problem in the measure that it only poses label and identity to inequality; therefore, we say, in this sense, a liberal approach which, since the legitimacy of inequality, incorporates diversity with normality. But that's what we're going to say about the homogeneity model, the French model, isn't it? , is a model that has also failed, that model that, in the name of equality, denies diversity and expression of diversity. Both have failed with dramatic consequences, I would say tragic, at the level of coexistence, and of very regrettable facts that we observe with excessive frequency in the problems of coexistence that are given in these societies. We in our home have been generating a debate, an open debate, on which it would be a model of interculturality, a debate that I believe is important that we resume, that we resume at these moments and that we also resume before our process constitute. And it is from this debate of interculturality that I will try to make some contribution in this sense; it is in the sense that in our teaching system, from secularism, we must guarantee in the school the freedom of expression of the diversity of identities and cultures of the students' own cultures without this entailing a risk of discrimination or violation of their personal rights; also guarantee the plural debate between science, reason and the beliefs of the students, their personal beliefs; promote respect, therefore, for the plurality of beliefs, that at these times is a value in crisis in Europe. Respect for the plurality of beliefs is a value in crisis that facilitates Islamophobia that is facilitating the exclusion and discrimination of people who are or arrive in our continent from immigration or refugee, and, in a very worrying way, a discrimination that the extreme right to Europe is turning into a flag and based on its growth and development. The debate on diversity, the debate on diversity of beliefs and values, cultural pluralism and identity, should be able to produce normally in cultural institutions and, therefore, also in school; it is not a debate that should be relegated to the ghetto or to the margins, but that our school, from the social sciences, from the humanities, should promote debate spaces between science, reason and belief, therefore, personal and personal identities of the different students. This does not mean, in absolute terms, multi-denominationality – we are completely in agreement with you –; we are not talking about including religion in absolute terms in the curriculum content, but about creating debate spaces from the social sciences, from the human sciences, from the humanities, where this plural and diverse debate is possible, in which from the science and the race we can critically dialogue and educate in the critical sense with the identities and values of the students. To end in this sense I would like to remember, since it was about Llull, a very interesting work and reference by Llull, which seems to me very useful in this sense, which is that of the Gentile and the three savis, that his problems and disgusts caused him at the time– they know that the Inquisition was there in the world–, very briefly, because I don't have much time left. The scene must have known, surely: a gentle one to debate, right? With a Muslim, a Christian, and a Jew, asking them about their knowledge and knowledge, which the three of them do enough to try to convince each one of their religious options, to which the gentle answer is ultimately, so very kindly thank them for the knowledge and knowledge they have brought, but tell them that they will keep thinking, huh? What's he going to be investigating, what's he going to be looking for, right? , in the fonts of knowledge. I think that we should have the capacity to, of our cultural institutions and also our school, that it is only another cultural institution, central and very important, indeed, to build this kind collection that has this capacity to debate from the critical thinking and from the independence of thought. This is our contribution to this debate. It is certainly not a debate for today, but for the republic, but it seems necessary to us to open it up to this proposal of law that you present, that we support it, and that therefore we will vote against the papers to the totality. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.144.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. We're calling it a vote. After the debate, we will proceed to the vote of the papers to the totality, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Joints for the Yes and for the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. [[Long break.]] We will proceed to the vote of the papers to the totality, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes and the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. As the total votes were approved for 70 votes in favour, 35 against and 24 abstentions, the proposed law amending Law 12/2009 of 10 July 2009 on education was rejected in order to guarantee laicity. And they suspect the session until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.145.0	Very late in the day, all of them. [[Proposition of audiovisual law (totality debate)]] [[202-00016/11]] The fourth point of the order of the day is the totality debate of the proposed audiovisual law. In agreement with the Board of Spokesmen of the 17th generation, the debate on this proposal for a law will be held jointly with the fifth item of the agenda, relating to the proposal for a law amending the legislation of Catalonia in the audiovisual field, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Therefore, we will make a debate, with the initial intervention of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and then the Socialist Parliamentary Group will intervene. Later, we will move to the intervention of the rest of the parliamentary groups to position ourselves on the two legislative initiatives, which will be a single intervention, with a turn of two minutes for each group. Next, for the presentation of the bill's proposal and to position itself on the proposal of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the word Ms Marta Ribas, in representation of the Catalonia Parliamentary Group Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.146.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Catalonia was a pioneer in Spain in the development of an audiovisual regulation that is old for quality content, which is used as a reference to pluralism, especially. Quality public media, that were inclusive and that guaranteed this right to information. There have been decades when a whole system of public audiovisual media in Catalonia has been built from this room and legislation that allows this pluralism, truthfulness and public service mission to be what you have been doing as pillars of these media serving citizens. Decades of this audio-visual regulation that was trying to be modern, that old for quality, for a control body, also, of the whole audiovisual field, the ACC, propitious to the style of other European countries and that the rest of Spain did not have experiences that seemed or compared. Decades of construction, moreover, of a broad national consensus around these structures of the communication. Of a consensus that there was in this chamber and of a consensus that there was, too, the academic world and in the professional world. A consensus that was also reflected in the Statute, with Article 52; but a consensus that the year 2012 Convergence and Union and the People's Party, at that time, were invigorating from this Parliament approving Law 2/2012, a counter-reform of various audiovisual laws, one of those famous laws that were already known as the same ones that, at that time, was warned, not only from this chamber, but also from the professional world, from the academic world, that the national consensus was dead, and that the changes that had been approved would have consequences in these trunk elements that they wanted for our public communication media and for this structure of communication. And so it was – and so it was –: it was a counter-reformation that basically made the right, Convergence and Union and the People's Party, at that time, have an absolute majority in the governing bodies, both of the CCMA and of the ACC, and that is converted into a transmission correctness of the Government, into a governmentalization as much of the corporation as of the ACC. And this correctness of transmission from the Government has not only been noticed in the government of the thing, but, as it was at that time, in the guarantees of information pluralism and, therefore, in the public service mission that was to be made from these structures. It is no different from what has also been going on with deregulation and also with assumptions in many other areas of our country. It also passed with the teaching, it also passed with water, it also passed with sanitation, is what happens with our public servants when it is regulated with one ideology or with another. There have been five years of this type of deregulation of our public services and of the detailed brutal assumptions of our public services. Five years, in which much of what had been built for thirty years has fallen apart. In five years, in the case of the corporation, the assumption has been reduced by 33_per_cent, 150_million euros less, by the assumption of the corporation. And this was noted by charging territorial delegations, charging correspondents to the territories and around the world, loading channels or merging them, like 33, like 3XL, like Catalunya Cultura, like iCat, without FM, eliminating the emission of satellite to the world, reducing the contract and audiovisual co-productions, trying to externalize the commercial department of TV3, but also with a 30_per_cent reduction of the purchasing power of the workers and workers of the corporation. Details that some were voluntarily accepted, at the time, to change that there was no acknowledgment, and so, Mr. Cuminal – I say for the article that he published the other day, that I think you should not be well informed about these elements–, and so there was an ERO, there were acknowledgments, 280 acknowledgments. All this, too, has reduced the pluralism of public communication means and, therefore, there is no such thing, with the effects of that counter-reform and of those details that there has been, but also of that counter-reform legislation, which is what we are dealing with today. During these five years, as we say, we have been many and many who have tried not only to reverse the effects of these details, but also those of that counter-reform legislation, and we have done so, too, making proposals requesting that it be returned, as at least, it is returned to what was before that counter-reform in 2012, but since we were going to touch the laws, some of us said, "Let's go a little further. And let's continue with that long-standing desire to make modern laws, looking to Europe, looking to other public media corporations to the rest of Europe, and looking to these control bodies as well. For the time being, we have not been able to do so; there have been various attempts; some things have been stopped, with these reactions that we have had, but we have only stopped them, and we are stagnant, and in water stagnants only grow grains. And the longer we let all the folds go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on We are debating two more proposals to try to reverse that cause of this stagnation, of this setback – and, now, stagnation – and of those reversals that were made to the laws. Two proposals that will try to make a little more air or fresh water that makes everything fold and move forward, but we must not forget that, in this chamber, there is already a law of Ciutadans, from the past, if I do not recall badly, that it was also, in part, in this line and has not advanced in its processing. I want to be optimistic, because I'm on my way, and I want to think that, with the entry into processing today of two new proposals of the law, we're going to make the beginning go away as long as, in the end, we finish processing something and actually end up changing something and we're going to have to settle and break down the need to change these laws, but the experience accumulated in this matter this legislature, but also the previous one, makes me touch a little on the ground and have to verbalize that very much in fear that nothing will happen until there is really clear political will on the part of Democratic Convergence – or PDCAt, now – and the Republican Left. Because that's what's been bugging him for these two years. Convergence and Republicans have been holding it together, as at least, for three years – I forgive – because while they are not agreeing on how to resolve it, so they don't lose, because they don't know how to do it without losing partisan piston, both of them, in this environment, so there's no way there's anything going on here. And so we were, at the end of last year's legislature, stuck with laws and so we are in this legislature going into the process of laws, but unfortunately we do not know if they will move forward. And I think it has to be explained so clearly and stop tiring the loss and stop tiring the staff of the corporation and the audiovisual sector with false hopes. And I hope that today, if in any case, from Junts to Yes and from these two great matches, which are the majority of Junts to Yes, will clarify or assure us that they really already know how they want to unhook it and have the will to, really, unhook it. And a positive clue – I already told them that I'm always trying to be optimistic – is that there are no totalities, in these two laws, and that it seems that it will really be willing to bring it to good use. Well, as it is, my doubts were to be expressed. What is it that includes our purpose of law? So, it's a proposal that I already include, which includes that of Ciutadans, who is sleeping the sleep of the righteous in a coven of the Committee on Culture; that also includes that of the PSC, which is to re-choose the members of the governing bodies of the corporation and the CAC with large majority in Parliament, two-thirds, and re-request to propose and choose them, while also re-introduce, in the governing bodies, major qualified for decision-making, the great decisions of the governing bodies, both of the CAC and of the corporation. That's what all three texts, Ciutadans, PSC and ours, Catalunya Yes, it's Pot, they have in common. But we go further, because we think that only these changes made in his day for that convergence law and the PP isn't enough, as I said a while ago. Like the PSC, in this case, we also claim that it does not only equip itself with the system of incompatibilities, but also that of the remuneration of members of the governing councils of the corporation and the ACC, to the other branches of the Generality. And also, like the PSC, we put in place a proposal for a new formula, or at least we start to debate it, and I'm sure it can be enriched even more by the composition of the government of the governing council of the corporation, causing at least two of its members to be directly elected by the personnel of the companies of the body, or so on, a co-management system. But we are still going further, and we also propose that the profiles of this Board of Governors be chosen through a public selection procedure. And that means you have to have a project behind you. And that the approval of the program contract complements the agreed collections, guarantees the participation of the workers, and that is old for the labor rights so much of the staff does not subject to the agreement as that of the suppliers companies. We also propose the inclusion of social criteria in contracts, or requirements for the completion of professional codes of ethics in companies contracted by the corporation; the need to encourage plans for the participation, as we say, of workers and workers in the strategy of the enterprise and in the organization of their own internal production processes; the need for better transparency and accountability of the governing bodies of the CC and the governing council of the corporation; the need to strengthen the role of the Board of Directors of the corporation, which we have there as a florist; the incorporation of guarantees for the maintenance and protection of public audio-visual features; the need to strengthen the role of the Board of Directors of the corporation, which we have as a florist; the need for the incorporation of safeguards of public audio-visual functions, the need for the maintenance and the protection of the normative archives of our corporate consulting council; the need to communicate in the field of exparliament; the need for regular communication; the need for the maintenance of public audio-visual functions, the need to communicate in the field of public service; the Therefore, we are not only going to touch the law of the corporation, or the law of the CAC, but also that of institutional advertising. Either the obligation of new transparency criteria and the requirement of the compliment of labour regulations in government subsidies to private media, or the reversal of the change that was made, in the concept of own production and production in chain, for private media, one of those modifications for the back door that was made from an audiovisual law to the size of a concrete private television group. We play, therefore, more audiovisual laws, not just, like the gods, the corporate and the ACC laws. And we did it because we've been listening to the sector for the past three years. And we don't waste time on staff: these changes that we propose, they are aspects that have brought, for example, the thirty experts, managers, businesses, organizations, unions that have appeared during the failed processing of two laws in the last legislature. And so, listening to what we've already heard, and not to waste time on staff, and because it turns out that there's actually someone who's listened to them, we've already put it into this new law proposal that today is being handled by this chamber. Finally, with the constructive intention of taking the step of this beginning that it does not allow any initiative on this subject to advance in this chamber and because the final objective is clear that it is to help make our public media remain of quality, be plural, be leaders, be strong and, therefore, reflect the plurality and complexity of this country and that the Catalan audiovisual sector can develop all the potential it has, we are pleased that it will bring forward the processing of our proposed law amending various audiovisual laws. We will also, obviously – and so we did not present a totality; but, if it was the case that there was no one, voting against it – the processing of the proposal of the PSC, as we also did with Ciutadans. And we will accept the path that expedites the process because both these two texts as it was already in processing, from Ciutadans..., or so, the debate of the three is able to do and to produce a good result. At the same time, we will continue to be demanding that everything folded forward, that you do it at a good pace, that the debate did not end up being an excuse to make only a small change or make-up to not change anything substantial. And when the thing doesn't go this way, we'll keep saying it clearly and without beginnings and denouncing and expressing without hair to the tongue that, sometimes, some people do that things are stagnant, that only grains come out, that the needles are rotten and that we generate expectations that will not be completed later. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.147.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Ribas. [[Proposal for a law amending Catalonia's legislation in the audiovisual field (totality debate)]] [[202-00026/11]] Next, for the presentation of the proposal of law presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and to position itself on that presented for the Catalonia Parliamentary Group Yes it is Pot, has the word Mr David Pérez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.148.0	Well, thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow me, Mr Iletrat, company of the Workers' Committee – I do not want to give myself a name: the Roque, the Moise, the Rafael, the Josep Maria, the Nuria, the Moise, the Ramon – look, for our parliamentary group – for our parliamentary group – the right to a true, objective and plural information is a central element of the welfare state. Sanitation, education and social services are very important, but it is central that there can be a public system of truth, objective and plural information. And it is in this sense that our obligation is to establish mechanisms, systems of authority and competences, to regulate this right that we all have, that all the citizens of this country have; a public media service that makes available to everyone this information, that we give before, truth, objective and with plural opinions. We are going through a complicated situation at this time, a difficult situation, a situation of hearings that we would all like better; a fall in tickets for advertising, a complicated situation..., when they throw in front of the contract program, a lack of resources. It has been perfectly explained before by the Member who preceded me. So, before this situation, we offer consent, we stand by and say, "Let's talk about it; let's look at the situation again. They can be very critical– very critical–; in fact, we do. Every sale to the Corporation Control Commission is very critical in the way public media are managed. But you think that even though we're still very critical, we believe in this public media system. We can also be very critical of how public sanitation is currently being managed, but we believe in a public health system. The same way we criticize the media, but we believe in this system of public media. And, in fact, this is the key to all this. We offer a consensus in a system we share, and I am convinced that the company that preceded me also shares this system, of public media with the will of public service and with mechanisms of public management control and regulation. Look, I believe in politics, I believe in this noble attitude of being human to work for the welfare of everyone, I believe in compromise and in the public service of politics; everyone... I believe that everyone we are here thinks this, and I believe that we are all compromised with our duty to push and control government action. And that is why we are presenting this legislative initiative; because they claim that all parliamentary groups – all parliamentary groups – have a presence and designation capacity in the control bodies of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. And we also propose, and it has been explained before, that in the council of government there is representation of the workers of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. And we propose, also explained, to return to the consent of the two thirds. And this is a political decision, indeed, it is a political decision; politics is demanding this. And we propose this with willing consent, with willing agreement, with willing agreement, with willing to leave something behind and incorporate some of the things that have been said a while ago. This is our will: to reach a consensus. And that's why we don't understand how members of the government can qualify as... - in this case, other people, huh? I am not referring to Members or Councillors, high-ranking officials – describe as "infiltrators those persons who have a political compromise and participate in a debate of questions to the President. For me a person who decides to give the step of devoting himself to politics, follow the party that follows, follow the CUP..., a young man of the CUP who is dedicated to politics, is a compromised and exemplary person; he is not an infiltrator in a debate. And we need to be very clear about that. And it's in this sense that we're giving consent, because we're all clear about this. And it is in this sense that we do not understand how it is possible for a member of the Government, a director general, to qualify as "political interference when I ask for the list of persons participating in the proceedings. They didn't get it. And we're giving consent so this won't happen again. And it's obvious that when the entire audiovisual sector in this country is calling for change and demanding greater commitments to the audiovisual sector, so we are giving you consent, because they are right – they are right – and our parliamentary group is giving you consent to try to pull all this forward. I'm done. We agree with the two initiatives that will be presented today; in fact, there will be no vote. And our will is that I believe in this joint position as soon as possible for the three laws that you are living at this time – that of Ciutadan, that of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and ours – and I can debate, with this will, with the majority parties, to try to reach an agreement. And I am convinced that this will happen; there is no other... That is to say, we can no longer, let us say, ignore the resolutions that have been permanently approved by this Parliament. I am convinced that before six months all this can be put forward. But most of all, and I'd like to end this, look, we're giving you this consent because surely at this moment, at this very clever moment, huh? For the public media, at this time of tribulation and difficulty, man, consensus will not be the saving table for public media, but it will be this space of comfort between all political parties and among all public media workers so that they can safely and calmly pull forward their commitment to public service, to compromise with the true, objective and plural information to which all citizens of this country are entitled. All right, all right, Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.149.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Perez. Then, to fix his position, has the word Mr. David Mejía, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.150.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, members of the business committee, late afternoon. Madam will advise, I hope, and I sincerely say so, that once this debate is over, we can really get to work. And I'm telling you why so far we have the feeling that you've been taking our hair. So I'm telling you. But not only have we been taking the hair to Ciutadans, who we presented the first proposal of the law in this legislature that talked about today's issue that brings us to debate; not only to the rest of the opposition groups, that by active and passive we have asked them for a time other than to start with this processing of the law; but the most important thing, you as a government – and I don't know whether as a government or as a part of the government, the convergent part – they are taking the hair to all the workers of the corporation, who are insisting with more energy, if anything, than the rest of the deputies in which it is beginning to put the needle. Today, in fact, a statement from the Catalonian Journalists' Union came to you; it would be good if you gave it a shot. It seems that you make them speak of plurality to public media; it seems that you make them speak of professionalism or speak of excellence. The truth is, it seems so. And you know why? Because you haven't moved a single word to activate the law proposal that was approved in this plenary on May 2016. Miri, Madam Councillor: May, June, July – August I don't count it, goes –, September, October, November, December, generation; eight months that has approved the processing of the law, eight months that we are insisting on the subject and eight months of government silence and paralysing it to the Committee on Culture. And it doesn't have to be because we haven't insisted on it one way or another. Look, I'm proposing one thing; the propositions that we pass the processing of these legislative proposals to the CAI committee. What does it look like? But, please, stop taking the hair, please. How do you want us not to think that the corporation isn't instrumentalized by the government? Thematic examples – don't worry, ma'am – and programmatic ones, we could put many and many examples of them, but that's why we already have the Corporate Governance Performance Control Commission. But, please, hide a mike; hide a mike, so that you don't see it so much, please. A little bit of this introduction, which I think was absolutely necessary, since its inaction is not only on this issue but on many other issues is really worrying, and with reference to the proposals of law that today are presented by Catalonia.Yes, it is Pot and the Socialist Party, let's talk again about the main axes of what we believe it should be and what the corporation should have. In the first place, the already mentioned many and many times plurality. Majorities of election need to be changed to two thirds in the first and second ballots. And also – and also – why not? , that the workers can be represented in the governing organs and so feel like their own management too. In fact, we could take advantage of what has already been presented to all groups as the co-management model and so we could develop this aspect. So I think we could actively participate in all the actors – this word that some likes when they write according to five articles in the communication media. This week the counselor said that – at the presentation of the CAC's White Paper – no one could doubt the plurality of public media. So, you know what I'm saying? – and I say it with all respect and with all esteem – therefore, that made are love and not good reasons. And so far you say, say and say, but you don't absolutely do anything, you don't bring anything into practice. Now they have a new opportunity, a new opportunity to prove and not just say, or maybe they have a new opportunity to keep waiting for another eight, new ones without moving the theme. At the hands of the councilwoman and the government, this is the question. To plurality we must also add impartiality, neutrality and the de-governmentalization of our media. If we want to be referents in the sector, we must set an example, and unfortunately we are not currently doing so. Let's go back to the facts and not the words. You know, you know perfectly well, that these aspects directly affect, for example, audiences and people who consume the channels that form part of the corporation. The point must be that our media is heading towards the Catalans, and not just those who think the same as this part of the hemicicle. Among other things this has to be so because the memory that the audiovisual media we pay absolutely all and each of the Catalans. And, as you know, if you lower the audience, because it's only addressed to those who think the same as a part of the hemisphere, so, you also lower advertising resources, and if you lower resources, obviously, you also lower tickets. And so it's the fish that moves the which, and enters a spiral from which it can cost a lot to get out. Another important point is transparency in any movement that can be made within the corporation, both internally and externally. Transparency and criteria that guarantee equality, freedom and competition. In this sense, we are totally in agreement with what was proposed by the proposal of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. In short, I believe that these proposals, together with which our group presented new months ago, have been focused in the same direction and are the model to be followed from that time on by the corporation. And, look, it's political will to set them up and it's political will to make them real, and our group assures them that it's tea, and, more importantly, I would say that most groups of this chamber also have it. So, please, we don't delay the matter any longer, we do what we have to do and we get among all the best public communication media. We also take advantage of the work done so far by professionals and speed up the development of the law, because this can be a reality as soon as possible, a reality in which pluralism, consensus, neutrality and partiality are not exceptional, but the true strength of our media. I am sure that with these demands the corporation will have its reward and the Catalans will positively value the work done, and it will visualize and have as a consequence a major Catalan audiovisual area, which is the objective we are pursuing all of us here. Therefore, I return to the principle: what we demand is that we put ourselves to work properly, in an active way, and that we don't take our hair any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.151.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mejía. [[Greetings.]] Next, the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.152.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, members of..., representatives of the workers of the Catalan corporation, we are going to position ourselves in relation to these two proposals of law of Catalonia Yes it is Pot and of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. It is worth saying that we have not presented a report to the totality, in view of the texts that have been presented. Now, I also have to tell you that if possible, and after hearing Mrs. Marta Ribas, she speaks to the whole of the presentation now in her voice; but, more than at the suggestion of the law that you have presented, at the intervention that you have made, basically to honor to what precisely from your group they refer all the time, which is the historical memory. You don't have it, historical memory, especially in the short term, do you? Basically because, look, I had the opportunity to participate in the elaboration of the three audiovisual laws, that of the audiovisual communication of Catalonia, that of the Catalan corporation and that of the Council of the Audiovisual of Catalonia. And to that of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation of 2007, you said: "The consensus broke in 2012. Lying: The consensus broke in 2010, and you know it, and you don't say it. And it broke 2010 for a government, not Convergence and Union and the People's Party, not: for a tripartite government. Does the tripartite ring a bell? It was a government of which Initiative for Catalonia Verds – which I think also sounds like it, because there is some responsibility – its group, participated, and there were even advisers. And that government approved, not a law, no: a law decree, a law decree for which it was carrying what you want to re-establish today, which is that the election of members of the governing council of the Catalan Audiovisual Corporation is made for two thirds of the chamber. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'll explain to him why. Because that time passed the same time that 2012 passed and that caused the majorities of that time of Convergence and Union and the People's Party to change the law again, and the same thing that will happen after this proposal that you make today, that we will approve all the charms of life, there is again a majority of blockage that prevents you from naming the members of the Board of Governor of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation and the members of the Catalan Audiovisual Council. Go on, if it isn't that... I, frankly, hope that my parliamentary group will come to have two thirds of the Members of this chamber, but I find it difficult at short notice. So... [[the timer riu]] You know, even the independents aspire to it, huh? – including the independenceists aspire to it – and they also see it as difficult. Therefore, it is more than likely – it is more than likely – that, if there is again a situation of blockage in the appointment of members of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Corporation or the Board of Audiovisual, someone says: "Well, then we change this law that forces us to have two thirds of the majority of the chamber. Now, as the political will that there be two thirds, enchanted by life; we sign it, we subscribe, agree. Now, after the usual reality of being tough. Certainly, when you changed the law it was to appoint an absolutely independent person to the head of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, right? Mr. Sabria? , absolutely independent: Mr. Enric Marín, who had just come out, did little that had come out of secretaries of the Government of the Generality, of the tripartite Government, absolutely independent... Go away, or follow, I imagine what you would say, and also us, if Mr. Cuminal, who has been Director General of Communication of the Generality, now the President of the Board of Governor of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. Say: "Magnificent! He is a person – with all due respect, Mr. Cuminal – "independently not able, which is what you wanted us to see the year 2010, when you approved that decree law, go. Well, look, let me, and less ironically, we are convinced that the independence of the members of the entities, of the institutions, does not depend so much on their past actions, nor on their militias, nor on their ideologies, which have them all; forget it. Independently there is no one; everyone is the son of his mother and father, everyone. And, therefore, everyone has an ideology, which will express it more or less, but what we can't doubt is that people, while having ideology, can be able to act independently and, therefore, do it from a point of view as neutral as possible. So that's what they really say we have a truly independent governing board. Look, there's a feeling – it's not the first time you've said it, huh? , which I say – that, man, the independence of the governing council of the ‘body' at the end depends on whether there is an initiative advisor or not. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes; so, yes, a tea this sensation. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Clearly... no, if I read the law; but not only this: I read them all, Mrs Ribas, all. I read this, but I also read that your group presented the previous or previous legislature. Now they're asking for seven members, man, because with seven members you'll already have an opportunity to put in some Initiative, but it's that the last legislature, the previous one, would call it a new one, because, if not [[Funnel veils]] – yes, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Listen to me, it's like when Ciutadans, who had three deputies in the chamber, asked twenty-three members to the governing council, because if there were no twenty-three, there was no one from Ciutadans. Well, exactly the same. Home, so, this isn't serious either. Now, look, actually, we were convinced in 2012 that it was a shame that we had a governing council with twelve councillors and the salaries and salaries that the councillors had at the time. And, therefore, we saw it absolutely essential to reduce – remember it, huh? : 2012, crisis situation, what you seem to ignore often – man, it was necessary to reduce the expense of the "body, as it has reduced; very much, in many aspects. So imagine that the expense of the "body" has reduced what has been reduced and today we still have twelve members of the government council with their salaries. Well, of course, that was unthinkable. Well, then, some of us said, "Echo me, this we have to correct, we have to fix it. We're going to cut you down by two to six. That there could have been a set? Yes, so, possibly yes; to have raised it. The one that happens, that you at this moment in you want new, because, if not, you do not hinder. Home..., or five; well, those that follow, but it was essential to reduce it. Therefore, we will not argue, if they are to be sis or set, as they plant today, at this time. We do not share the proposal also presented by the PSC and Catalonia Yes, it is Pot in relation to the fact that two of the members of the government council should be representatives of the workers. It doesn't make us any better either; that's why we won't get over it, huh? Now, we understand that the workers' representatives have their natural organ of representation and claim and defense of labor rights, which is the staff board, are staff juntas. Therefore, we have absolutely no drawbacks, but we also believe that this is not the place where work demands are to be produced. Supression of the second turn... I meant it. Discrepancies. You also propose to delete the quality vote in the Catalonia Audiovisual Council, but also at the same time propose to eliminate the term in office. Home, two thirds of the chamber and, therefore, favors the blockade; we abolish the mandate in functions and more we suppress the quality vote. What we block is no longer the name of the advisors; directly what is blocked is the institution. Therefore, look, let us disagree – let us disagree – and set reforms in this sense, because we do not agree. And I'm done, because I'm running out of time, too. They propose a modification of the Law on Institutional Advertising, in the sense that the Government makes public the name of the media in which it is advertised. Don't call. If he wants to, we'll vote for him, we're the same. But I don't need to. The Law of Transparency – u. Two, there are proposals for resolutions of the People's Party in this chamber, which are debated in a manner that requires the Government to complete the law, the law of transparency, not institutional publicity. We will not have a problem working together with all the groups in the Chamber in a reform of the audiovisual laws, but we do ask them to leave the demagogue behind, try to be serious and work because the public media are worthy of all – I repeat, all, in capital – the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.153.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, the words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.154.0	Well, thank you, President. Counsel, MPs, MPs and Professionals of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation, this 2017 will be a very interesting year for public audiovisual media. We..., from our political point of view, it is obvious that this society does not have all the power it should have in order to define public policies, and that is why, therefore, we defend independence, we defend the opening of a constituent process, in which it is debated without limits also in public communication media and, in particular, audiovisual media. In fact, the White Paper on Audiovisual Communication was presented in the past, and it is clear, therefore, that the returns that were collected there could only be faced when this society, this country can have full legislative capacity and full financial capacity, i.e., when it is a republic. Tanmateix, this 2017 is a series of debates that we might well consider as the front of the process are worth public audiovisual media. We have, on one side, the negotiation of the programme contract, which is much more ambitious than the first drafts to which we have had access, and which, for example, contemplates, therefore, to recover as separate entities – already pointed out – the Channel 33 and the children's programming channel, which are, therefore, key to consolidating the public and, therefore, to excavate and recover the lost audiences, like the return of iCat to the FM, etc. They are also supposed to overlap with the second of these debate marks that we will have during this year, which is the renewal of the March mandate, which is the burden that this Parliament, therefore, does to the public communication media, the master lines with which, therefore, it is to move. In the third place, and finally, what we have today is the reform of the laws, in the first place, of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, but also that of the Council of the Audiovisual and other laws that will face, basically, many questions; but it is obvious that the gruesomeness, the central is the governance of the body, in which, therefore, criteria must be established that guarantee us independence, professionalism and plurality. That, moreover, coincides with the necessary renewal of the lines that have already expired his mandate, beginning with those that bring, therefore, more time to the board of directors: Mr. Brauli Duart, Mr. Nuria Llorach, Mr. Armand Querol. And all these debates, moreover, we do in parallel with the process of definition and re-opening of Valencian Radiotelevision, which is not a fact, can lead us to exchange experiences that serve to improve the respective models, since with so many questions we live in Valencia and Catalonia, and, on the other hand, we have common challenges. We take advantage of the fact that these legislative conjunctures, political conjunctures, therefore, coincide to share experiences with the band and band of the Senia, to formulate strategies of future in the Catalan area of audiovisual communication, for example, that we were discussing in a motion on the proposal of the Candidature of Popular Unity, and, ultimately, therefore, to make a more rich debate. It is with this soul that we face politics in audiovisual media during 2017. Obviously, then comes Realpolitik, from which, therefore, Mr Santi Rodriguez already made evidence, right? Today, everyone, therefore, we are talking about improving governance, and then the law firms will be coming by how concrete this is in a concrete text, right? But it is with this soul – with this soul, therefore, almost pre-constituent – that all these debates that we have in front of us must be addressed. We arrive at this situation by closing a cycle that began in 2011 and which was, therefore, characterized by the detail, by the face of the direction with the workers of the body. Let's remember, for example, the November 2013 referendum in which a 96_per_cent launderer demanded the cessation of the one who at that time was the president, who is still exercising, let's say, as a corporate advisor. And also, the government's directionalization, which has acted more like the transmission correctness from which it has named them than as an independent direction able to unite professionals and to assert the interests of our public media. It's time, we understand, to be able to leave all this behind. Therefore, in the debate on governance, what we would like to say is that it has returned to qualified majorities so as to force us to find, therefore, consensus, and, therefore, to find names that are more journalistic and less connected to party loyalties. This is precisely what the White Paper recommended, which was presented in a number of formats and to which it referred earlier; in concrete terms, it says so clearly: "Strengthening the independence and transparency of the governing bodies. I, as concrete action, therefore, set up processes of accountability and transparency and enhanced selection requirements. And then, for what it does to co-management, which has also been referred to, we will defend this model, so, for the same reasons, for the same reasons: because it involves, in the direction of the media, that sector, the workers, the professionals, that they have a long-term bond and not a short-term bond, and that they know the house within. A model which, moreover, in other audiovisual sectors and in other sectors in general of the economy is given to various European countries and which is also reflected in the White Paper. In fact, he says this also in concrete terms: "Strengthening the participation of workers in the management of the corporation in the line of the models of co-management that exist in other European countries. All right, all right, For our part, we're opening the door. We support all these debates with the idea of recovering from what should not have been lost and, at the same time, of going further in helping to make our public media a reference in quality, plurality, modernity and civil service vocation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.155.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Next, has the word Lord Jordi Cuminal, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.156.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counsel, MPs, MPs, representatives of corporate workers, thanks to the time to disagree on some of the things we share, aware that sometimes two or six are discussed and a third, according to what they say or according to what they might seem, so ends up falling apart. Therefore, in this sense, I also appreciate when it is spoken in general – and today I will make some reference, so also to a concrete collection – so that it is understood that it is not personal nor willing to harm, but simply to debate possible models with the will to improve things. And today, with the will not to exhaust all the time... – in fact, there have been many debates, in some of the interventions that have been made today, until you see that the discrepancies are those that were and do not give more than here, more than we have been doing today – so, with the will not to end all the time, I would only refer to or make a thank you, and not to go into things that we would already go into when we were debating the laws, maybe in some way or otherwise, that I could not go through it, but I would try not to go into the criticisms, that we have already tried to respond to the debates that we have had, or that we have done. We'll do it in the debate. Therefore, I would like to refer to the attitude with which we are debating this law, which is with an attitude or with a condition of hope, with an attitude of trust and also – and this has not been said, and therefore we will confirm it, because we believe that it is important – with an absolute compromise with Catalonia. These three will be the three values, the three adjectives that will characterize Junts' attitude to the Yes at the time of facing the law: hope, trust and compromise with Catalonia. As I said, today, this debate is an end of course that doesn't end in a dead end, but it starts with an initial construction of trying to put a thread in the needle to fears that it's really been a while in Parliament to fight and, for what it's for... it's all attributed to bad faith, sometimes for the middle there's been some choices, for the middle there's been something else that..., you can still think that it's bad faith, but in any case, the parliamentary dynamic makes sometimes some initials of the law fall or fall off more of the account. There's been no attempt at totality, so no, no, no... And when there was none, so, in his own moment we also withdrew her. Our intention was that we could do this debate, and we believe – and this is what I wanted to say, when I wanted to make a thank-you – so when it comes to the fact that there is no talk of totality, that if there had not been any withdrawal, that we would debate a divination to the corporation every month and part of the criticisms already made them... In any case, that there is an agreement, that I here wanted to thank Mr. David Pérez for his patience and perseverance in trying, so that the three legislative initiatives that have been prepared today by all the parliamentary groups sign and, therefore, are ready to enter the register, the agreement to make a joint statement, to integrate a text and to be able to start this debate that we say everyone believes is good that it is possible to make. Just, and with what Mrs. Ribas gave, so, the way I agile it. So let's look for the path that can agile it the most, and here we'll find ourselves. Only two references or three to what was said. Willingness of consent: we're in. It says: "Volunteer of consensus. We think it's very important and that's the perspective we have to face up to this debate. Mrs. Ribas, thank you for the appointment. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. García, quote'm, yes, yes... If there is an article and there is a diary, do not say: "Someone has written it somewhere. No, I've written it, I've written it in a diary, do'ml' honor to quote the one that's written. And you hear that it's good that Members write about the issues and what they think and that we try to socialize what we're debating here? I'll do it, I'll quote him. Look, let's see if you recognize him, because he said that sometimes he's taking the people's hair, he's talking about the workers, and he said that we want to take the hair by delaying some debates, right? So I'll now quote it to you, see if you recognize it: « Reduce by 25_per_cent the assumption of the Corporation of TV3 and Catalunya Radio. Did you recognize him? It is Ciutadans, an issue for the presupposition of 2017. After the speech you made here, you, without commenting, make a proposal to reduce the 25_per_cent of the presupposition. So, how do they want corporate tickets to improve, if what they're asking is to cut it a 25_per_cent? We'd have to look at a little bit more when we took our hair, which sometimes we dared to say things and just make a little bit of a guess. And the last reference, Mr. Rodriguez... I don't see it, it's not there. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, he did. This late, generation 25 of 2017, you broke my illusion; I will never forgive you, eh? Allow me to joke, that some people did say: "You make articles, you say that because you want to be president of the corporation. Listen to me, don't wish me so badly. In the background I've seen that we have a certain friendship because the moment you tell me that I can't be, I'm relieved of, really, many difficulties and many curses. The attitude of hope, and before the representative of the CUP, Mr. Botran made reference to the presentation of the white book. I..., it's a very interesting intervention, if it's just from the narrow end of governance and all folded. There are, indeed, many reptiles, to the band that was mentioned in this law's debate. The law, the proposals to modify the law refer to a 2012 law, but the 2012 law modified a 2007 law. And what they tell us about ACC the other day is that early in 2000 in Catalonia there were eight televisions, and at these times there are forty. Therefore, the debate of hope of being able to make a good contribution in the field of audiovisual is that we can transcend a little more to the concrete of laws, which many years ago... – the field of audiovisual has been very fast – in order to contribute, to be able to introduce many better ones that can give response to our consumptions, to technological convergence and try to make more competitive the public communication media of our country. We also want to introduce the concept of trust, because it's about governance – I'm no longer going into member reduction and all folded –, how to choose and how to control. We also believe that it is interesting that at the time of facing the law's debate we do so from trust and, therefore, to give in fact that honor and loyalty to business and institutions exist. The Catalonian Parliament is not all based on mistrust and control. Sometimes there are some people who use the "transparency" word to store a real will of mistrust and control. We believe that this element of trust and confidence will have to be introduced into the debate. And more confidence in what we represent. I'm not going to expand now either, but with what we want from the incorporation of representatives, etc. Pluralism and representativeness, obviously, mark the law, all that convinces you not to alter the limit that alters the political configuration of our country. This Parliament takes decisions with regard to some elections, with regard to some results of democracy. And, sometimes, let's use some concepts that try to pervert what people have voted for. And, in this sense – and now when I said that I would refer to the workers' representatives – there are established mechanisms for participation and, surely, they will be improved; but at these times there are new commissions in which the workers participate. I don't know if the solution has to be the representation on the board of directors of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation. And, in this sense, it is not personal criticism, but it is to say: "I am sure that the people chosen for the Parliament of Catalonia are more represented than those who have to defend concrete benefits, positions on the part. I think there are elements to negotiating between trade unions and business leaders, but maybe putting them among the Board of Governors is not the best. And I didn't want to expand and I'm running out of time, and so... compromise with Catalonia. The CAC said: "The Catalan television audience in Catalonia is 18 and a half percent. This means that 81_percent of the audience – 81 and a half of the audience – is not in Catalonia's own language. So, we'll have to talk in the law, too. Because here there's a clear element to protecting that it's the Catalan television audience. And more so if we take into account that the year 2000 was 26_per_cent and at these times it is 18. The compromise with Catalonia also means remembering why it founded TV3: as the element of social cohesion, as the element of vertebration of the country. It has a social function TV3 and, at the time of creation, it was this. It also has this social function, the Catalan language, and that's why we need to protect it. And without having a lot of complex speeches, because it is true that this was the year 80, but it is that from now on to the year 80 there is the same distance that there was from the year 80 to full franchise, when the català was banned. And, therefore, it's worth being aware of where the TV3 and corporate founders came from. And at the time of changing the law, it's worth not forgetting where we're coming from. And if you allow yourself to make a statement to the poet, with Lluís Llach's permission, surely in punctual moments everything is going to be done, but there are other moments, and as it is in national times of construction, that everything is going to continue, and that is all that is possible. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.157.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Cuminal. Mr. Mejía, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.158.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.159.0	Thirty-seconds; thirty-seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.160.0	Thank you. Tell Mr. Cuminal, who is obsessed with our parliamentary group, that yes, we want to reduce 25 percent of the corporation; but do you know why we want to reduce it? To cut the grease and boost the muscle. And do you know how they can get more resources? So, winning the audience. And in order to win an audience we need to have communication media of all – absolutely all – Catalans. And one last thing, Mr. Cuminal: don't pull the towel to be president of the corporation, the current president of the corporation already has Convergence book. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.161.0	As long as no papers have been submitted to the totality, the proposal... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Cuminal, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.162.0	He went on to say, by professional offer, but no, by allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.163.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.164.0	Are you listening, obsessed? If I want to get caught, I don't have a problem hearing it. I am very clear that you, Citizens, were created to go against everything TV3 means. And I will fight it; as many times as you need. But it's not annoying – your opposition fan, I think it's perfect – don't offend: we won't let one of them pass at the time of defending the public media in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.165.0	As no totality papers have been submitted, the proposed audiovisual law and the proposed law amending Catalonia's audiovisual legislation continue to be processed. [[Proposal for a law amending Law 14/2008 of 5 November 2008 of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[202-00038/11]] The sixth item on the agenda is: totality debate on the proposed law amending Law 14/2008, of 5 November, of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, is presented by Ms. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.166.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. Well, today we present you with a bill on the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia, and therefore inevitably, and although we already know you don't like it very much, today it's time to talk about corruption. And it is that corruption continues to be, according to the latest CIS data, the second problem of the Spanish, behind unemployment. And in addition to these CIS data we also have data from the Anti-Fraud Office itself obtained last October, where we are told that three_de_cada_four Catalans believe that currently in Catalonia there is a lot or enough corruption. And maybe that's why you don't like to talk about it. Maybe it has something to do with what's coming over them, the panorama they have. But, look, for us, it is a priority to talk about the fight against corruption, and for citizens it is. And it is also a priority to seek solutions and propose mechanisms to fight firmly against the scourge of corruption; mechanisms such as those we bring here today so that the senior officials of the Anti-Fraud Office are occupied by independent people; chosen for their merit and their capacity, and not for being militants of any party. For in order to take action against corruption it seems that some shake their hands; but, listen, then, to appoint the leaders to their finger, for this reason nothing shakes them. Look, unfortunately political corruption has become a black hole through which we lose many millions of euros. Well, we don't lose them, no, they're pocketed by a few who think they're above the law, a few who haven't had any kind of scruple in carrying what wasn't theirs and embezzling the money that so much effort cost the Catalans to win. Public money that, by the way, could serve very well for such important things as health, such as education or social services. And it's not just about money, it's also about discredit: discrediting politicians and discrediting institutions. Look, eight_of_each_ten young people think that political parties only take care of themselves and that they are for nothing an instrument of change and transformation. And not only do young people think this, no. According to this data I told you, from the Anti-Fraud Office of October, 70_per_cent of Catalans believe that there is a lack of transparency in public decisions, 80_per_cent believes that there are too close links between politics and business; 85_per_cent say that politicians do not give enough information about their management, and 85,2_per_cent of Catalans think that politicians do nothing, or do not do what they do, to fight corruption. It is not for nothing, but with these figures so high it seems that after years of leading the institutions, of being the government of the best, as they called themselves, Catalans suspend them in transparency. And do you know why citizens think that? Well, look, very easy: a few weeks ago in this Chamber my colleague Fernando de Páramo showed them a list of cases of corruption. He was a deployable; a deployable that reached the ground. Because we are not talking about an isolated case of corruption, no: we are talking about a true scourge that seems to have no end. And it has no end precisely for things like today's, because both Junts for Yes and the PP turn out to present an amendment to the whole. That is to say, when a proposal is made that the senior officials of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia be independent and are not chosen to their finger, they do not want to talk. I really want to see how they justify these amendments to the whole: how are they going to justify that they are not interested in strengthening transparency in the institutions? How are they going to justify that they are against the procedure for electing these positions being public and that everyone knows what terms have been made? How are they going to explain that it is not right for candidates to have recognized experience and to be chosen for that and not for other circumstances? And how will they explain that they want the offices in this office to continue to choose one's finger, regardless of whether they relate to cases of political corruption or not? Because this amendment to Law 14/2008 of the Anti-Fraud Office, which we are proposing today, goes from this to nothing else. I'm really curious to see how they explain it to us. However, I also say to you that we are not very surprised by the amendment as a whole, because that is how you are used to working forever. I..., I really don't know how they do it, but it's that every time it's about keeping political chiringuitos or continuing to control the institutions by placing their own, it gives the great chance that, listen, Convergence and PP agree: a whole paranormal phenomenon, go. And of course, if they were the paradigm of anti-corruption, then yet; but they are not: neither are they. The PP..., you just need to see Mr.Bárcenas parade through the courts and explain in detail the alleged funding of the People's Party. Convergence, then, we also know, don't we? : Embarked seats, with name changes in an attempt to play the clock and with a judicial winter ahead long. Because this year will be when they will finally have to be held accountable for all their corruption and finally will be judged by those responsible for the Palau case. Finally, after so long, these gentlemen will have to face the courts: Mr. Millet, Mr. Montull, the ex-Secretary of Convergence – Daniel Osácar – and ex-directives also of Ferrovial – the builder who allegedly paid the commissions. Look, because no matter how much you change your name or acronyms people don't forget; no matter how much you now try to cover up your corruption with giant stellates you will never be able to cover up what some have done all these years with the money of all Catalans, and you will have to be accountable to the courts. And I assure you that blocking proposals like the one we bring you here today shows that you are not interested in fighting corruption, because to do the first thing you have to preach with the example. And I get it, don't I? I understand that they have been struggling, that they have been like this for years, and that what they want, then, is to continue as before: doing and undoing without control. But, of course, if we have an anti-fraud office, it's just so this doesn't happen. If we have an anti-fraud office it is to ensure transparency and the integrity of the public sector administrations in Catalonia and its staff; it is to avoid the fraudulent use of public money. If we have an anti-fraud office, it is to investigate all those conducts that depart from the law and also to investigate conflicts of interest. If we have an anti-fraud office in Catalonia it is so that this is a real key piece in the fight against corruption and not to see things like those we have seen with Mr. De Alfonso, that with his performance the only thing he achieved, among other things, was to increase discredit and distrust towards the institutions. And if we have an anti-fraud office, it can't be that people like Mrs Maite Masià are directors, or deputy directors, which is the same for the case. Maite Masià, who, let's remember, is a person who has always worked in positions of trust, that is, so that everyone can understand us, put to his finger – plugged, go. And a person who has given headlines like these, I will read them because they are enough, and I have brought only a few; then, if you want, I will give you the links. Look, the first: « Convergence and Union assaults the Anti-Fraud Office. A high office of Artur Mas, at the attached address. Second headline: « They link the ITV case to the Anti-Fraud Board. Maite Masià spoke to Sergi Alzina about subsidies for energy efficiency. Another headline: « Maite Masià appears as a key person in the summary of the ITV case. Another: « Antifrau's number two awarded contracts to companies related to Convergence Democrática de Catalunya. Maite Masià gave toe awards to corporations led by the Sumarroca in its previous stage as high office of the Government. Another headline: "Anti-fraud number two also gave their contracts to their former boss in the private company. Yes, I'm going to... – I'm going to stop because there are plenty of them –: « Anti-fraud number two ranked Jordi Pujol high. Maite Masià hired the former president of Petrocat for 150.000_euros per year. Look, I'm not an expert, am I? But it seems to me that this lady's résumé was not exactly the most suitable one to run the Anti-Fraud Office here in Catalonia. Although, of course, after listening to Mr De Alfonso how he said that he had not given him time to check his file when he hired her, he already says a lot about how things were done here. And apparently Convergència and the PP as they still want them to be done like this, as so far. Look, last year I attended the presentation of the dossier called The Management of Conflicts of Interest in the Public Sector of Catalonia. A dossier made by the Anti-Fraud Office and which they came to expose to the Governance Commission. Now that I see all this, I don't even know what to think about that dosier; because, come on, if with Mrs Masià you didn't see the huge conflict of interest there was, then turn it off and let's go. Look, we don't want to get up every day with a new case of corruption. And that is why today we bring you this amendment of the law that regulates the Anti-Fraud Office, because we want the person who runs this office to exercise his or her office with complete independence, honesty and objectivity. And for that it is essential that this person does not have a party card, because – and this is something that everyone understands – when investigating a possible case of corruption of a political party, who is going to bite the hand that gives him food? Look, therefore, what we want is a director of the Anti-Fraud Office who is elected through a procedure that guarantees the principles of equality, merit, capacity and publicity, as set out in the Constitution and also in the Staff Regulations. A procedure that must be done with complete transparency and impartiality. Only in this way will the Anti-Fraud Office be able to meet its main objective, which is nothing but to guarantee institutions free of corruption. A goal that is not easy, and for which they will not use anything to look elsewhere or try to blame others, such as that that they so much like and that they always do. And it will not serve them because a few days ago we knew data published by the General Council of the Judiciary concerning the cases of corruption prosecuted in Spain. And do you know what these data say? Well, they say Catalonia leads the list of people prosecuted for political corruption, being administrative prevarication, urban prevarication and the embezzlement of public money, the most common corruption crimes. Look, it's very good that you want to fight..., or say that you want to fight corruption; it's very good to say that it's a matter of concern; to name a Transparency Advisor, which is by the way the least transparent of all, isn't it? , which does not even make its own agenda known – it is supertransparent everything –; it looks very good. But it's only postureum; because then, at the time of truth as it is usually said here, in Catalonia, se'ls saw him crying. Look at each other; that, despite the numerous criticisms that are addressed here every day, PP and Junts pel Yes it turns out that in this they do coincide. It turns out that when they have the opportunity to improve the system they present an amendment to the whole so that everything will continue as before, to use the institutions for their own benefit, rather than doing so in the general interest of Catalans. Catalans who have been watching their resources diminish more and more for years; watching the administration chase those who do not get to pay taxes in time, instead of chasing those who defraud millions of euros, eh? I remind you of the data I gave you at the beginning: 82,5_per_cent of Catalans believe that politicians do not do what they need to do to fight corruption. For Citizens, the fight against corruption is a priority here and in the Congress of Deputies, where we chair the Commission for the Fight against Corruption, focused mainly on investigating party funding. Or with proposals such as the one we announced last Monday, to strengthen the independence of economic regulators and thus protect consumers. Or with proposals such as the one we are bringing here today, so that public sector bodies cease to be a placement agency and actually meet the objectives for which they were created. Look, if you are not interested in fighting this scourge, if you are not interested in persecuting the defrauders and the corrupt, then at least let those who do want to do it work. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.167.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Roldán. In order to defend the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, Mr Lluís Corominas has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.168.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies, well, it's a little dazzling that, with what happened to the director of the Anti-Fraud Office, you made this speech. And of everything that happened to Mr. De Alfonso and Mr. Fernández Diaz, did you get that conclusion? Maybe a part of the subject has been lost, right? No reference [[applause]] on the content of which it passed, neither one – nor one. But, well, in any case, I'll refer to the end of it, all of it, because I wanted to explain why we presented a statement to the totality, first of all. Together for the Yes he presented a statement to the totality, first of all, for what has happened now: for Ciutadans' opportunism in that just moment to present a proposal that does not say, nor solves re. And it would have happened exactly the same, in this case, with all the items that you're planting. And, obviously, I'll use it. This also served to divert the attention, precisely, from the content. You present that initiative at that time: "Look, we will do this because I never pass again, but in reality you did not want to talk about the content, because you spent a lot of points on the criticism to Minister Fernández Díaz. All that has been said now by the People's Party, corruption, great corruption, etcetera, who has made the president of the central government Mariano Rajoy? [[Greetings.]] Citizens, isn't it? It was you. Well, wasn't that all right? That speech wasn't made? Okay. In any case, I think they're wrong about the stage, and it's not the Catalonian Parliament that should have made this speech. Face to face with the contents. From the content of the proposal we do not agree practically with anything else, because it does not improve and above all because it would not change, I repeat, any of the circumstances that occurred with the situation of the former director of the Anti-Fraud Office. You present as a reason for this proposal the fevers shown in the director's election procedure and the fevers in the director's control. And the objects say they're increasing the experience requirements. Obviously, increasing Mr. De Alfonso's experience requirements would have passed exactly the same, because more experience than Mr. De Alfonso was quite difficult. Incrementing, too, the necessary consensus would have passed exactly the same: no one questioned it at the time. I, too, ensure independence. As far as I know, Mr. De Alfonso and his predecessor, Mr. Martínez Madero, had no political militancy and, therefore, the independence of the director of Antifrau, in this case, is not a decisive issue. These are the three reasons you're here to present this bill. If there's any more, they'll explain it to us. But, in any case, it was not justified if it was not for the magical opportunity to divert attention from a difficult, very difficult case of corruption at the level of an institution, Antifrau, but also from a Ministry of the Interior. Face to face with the contents, and face to face with what you propose. In Article 1 you propose that the selection of the staff of the Anti-Fraud Office is done with new criteria and that there is no possibility of potential or reliable staff. That's not knowing the office – that's not knowing the office. Obviously it must be done with criteria of merit, equality, etc., but the Anti-Fraud Office, obviously, can also appoint, should be able to appoint special advisers for special cases and possible personnel for special cases. Precisely, this is the office and, obviously, the main thing has to be, so, like all access to public office, for requirements that are precisely in Article 26. You propose an amendment to Article 1 and, at the same time, do not propose an amendment to Article 26. In Article 1, you must all be able to function, and in Article 26, you must not change it, say another thing, and say that there can be personal and reliable. They left him. As they went so quickly at the time of presenting this, they could not remember that the law had until twenty-six articles. And they stayed at the 25th, which they also had, by the way. Well, anyway, in view of the second article they're playing, which is Article 8, they say there's no affiliation of candidates to chair the Anti-Fraud Office, no interest group. That's impossible; as we defined interest groups, it's impossible. On the contrary, if there is anyone who has never joined a king, an excursion centre or a couple or anything, it is that he is a strange person. Better that we don't name it for re– better that we don't name it for re. Therefore, either we change the wording or, quite simply, there will be no normal city that can accept this responsibility. They also make a classification between conservative and non-conservative decisions. Not to upset the rest of the Members... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, don't get upset. So, we're not going in here. It's of great legal insecurity. What is preserved and not preserved? It's not defined. And, on the other hand, when what happened, applying the law, Parliament was quick. Another thing is that before there weren't enough assessment and control mechanisms, and here we really need to get more out of it. But it respects the time of the Catalonian Parliament, the committee proposed its dismissal; there was a contradictory procedure, as provided for by the law, which must obviously be, and for a qualified majority of three_five_parts we made the decision we made. This was quick, neither conservative nor non-conservative measures, and obviously this procedure worked well. In order to strengthen the mechanisms of the majority of the election, the qualified majority will move it from three _five parts, currently, to two thirds. I wouldn't have changed the king. Anyway, let's talk to each other, but I wouldn't have changed the king. Is that the real problem? Is most of it the real problem? Is the majority of Mr. De Alfonso or Mr. Martínez Madero the real problem that we had with respect to Mr. De Alfonso and his performance in the department? I'm sure you don't. Fifteen years in analog functions. There's no such thing as analogs. If there's any problem with the candidates and the presidents of the Anti-Fraud Office, it's the Anti-Fraud Office. The ones who come from the judiciary or the prosecutor's office think that it's a jurisdictional organ and it's not; it's an administrative organ that in our system is strange, because there's no head from a point of view to apply to what could be done when you're a judge or you're a prosecutor. There are administrative measures, but you have to keep all the guarantees of the procedure to be followed by the investigation and, therefore, it is a strange figure. Asking for fifteen years in a similar position is that there is no one in this country who is fifteen years old in this. Therefore, they cannot ask for this request, it is impossible. In any case, we don't do strange things for the election process. The unions of accounts, of weights, the Board of Guarantees, all have procedures that are similar. In any case, we try to have a certain similar practice in things that have done this very Parliament and that have ensured that it functions very well. Article 11, as far as cessation is concerned, I have already referred to it. The notorious and difficult negligence in the failure of obligations is exactly what you propose, do not add anything again. And it has to serve for the case – it has to serve. Was there anyone from this room that I went to plant that I couldn't do? Hey, what's up? There was-there was a hard negligence in complimenting the functions. What you are proposing is empty, because, in any case, you are developing this very thing. So that's what we've got. And then they do something curious. Like they want to go further there all the time, in accounts of asking three _five parts of this Parliament, which is what is currently, to stop it once passed through the committee, asking for two thirds. Therefore, they harden the procedure to stop it, when it should be the other way around: once passed by the commission, the commission determines that there has been negligence, it should be easy to make it out. And you harden it, going from three to five parts to two thirds. As they did that quickly, let's say pose more. Well, so, look, let's get some more. So, in this case, it's not worth it either. That's the same thing, all these installations, for the deputy director, who also have the same requirements. Okay. Before entering the final part, Mrs. Lorena Roldán spoke to us about many things that have nothing to do with the purpose of law on the table. In any case, if you want us to talk about the purpose of the law, we will talk about it; if you want to talk about it, as always, in front of the gallery, then we talk about it in front of the gallery, but warn 'nsabans, and let us waste our time. The argument that goes on is very much out of the question. They come here: "Corruption, corruption! No, the first concern of Catalans – CEO – is independence. And that doesn't neglect... [[applause]] This does not neglect the concern we have for corruption. But don't be mistaken; in any case, first of all, he's reading the CEO, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, okay, if we're going for this band, let's go. Do you remember her unforgivable performance in the law of transparency? The paper they made? Do I remember them? The most important law we've done against corruption in this Parliament, remember what you did? Your acting in commission, very correct. And what did you end up voting after? Do I remember? Why? Why did they do it? You weren't responsible for something that worked and worked well. All for this posture that you have to look good on your face. And at that time they decided not to make themselves responsible for the best law that is transparent at this time in Europe. And therefore, also remember your own actions when they talk about this corruption that we love to talk about. We didn't do anything; we didn't do anything, with Antifrau, it all went through this room with the three_five_parts. So, toe-toe, what have we done? What happened? That you do not like the majority that articulates is another thing, but the majority are the ones in this Parliament and the ones that establish the law in this Parliament and, therefore, are the names that have been agreed with the law. Well, to finish, said all that, we would withdraw the puzzle to the totality. Why are we pulling it out? Because we believe that this law, which is eight years old, from the year 2008, that we were four years old to do it, that it cost a lot to find the legal framework in this judicial system of our own an organ administered with some investigative functions of corruption and all the ill use of public funds is a law that we believe needs to be touched, it is a law that has evolved over time and that at this time there are many arguments to put on the table changes in this law. Not the ones you've proposed, maybe someone, I'm not saying no, but I've detailed to them the whole realization of the things you've proposed that won't work for anything else. But after eight years we believe that there are fears, such as the terms of the investigation, of resolving cases, and there are fears like the assessment we need to make. Let us not forget one thing: we are co-responsible for what happened to the Anti-Fraud Office, because whoever is in control is the Parliament of Catalonia and, in any case, the Parliament of Catalonia can develop, with a reform of the Anti-Fraud Law, control mechanisms beyond what is at the moment. And here you will find us if you come to talk about it; if you come to talk about others, obviously, speak alone. It has also been very transparently legislated, it has been legislated in codes of conduct... In fact, the Anti-Fraud Office had internally approved a code of conduct that is not yet in the pipeline because it came from the previous team and will also need to be developed. We'll be able to incorporate all this. And the first thing we'll ask for, because we'll make it easier for this proposition of law to speak, is the appearance of the current team, of the director, who in the few months he carries in charge has shown a lot of solvency and I think he can give us a lot of arguments to improve this law. Mr. Gimeno has shown in these few months that he can be trusted, that he has very clear who is the function of the office, also his independence, and he also has proposals, sure, to tell us all folds so that the office works better and, therefore, here too they will find us. And what we're asking first of all is that Mr. Gimeno will be here to give us a lead on this enlargement, better than the 2008 law. And finally, also, we either betray or withdraw the message to the totality for a motivating process economy. There is a proposal for law presented; to present at this time a new initiative would be absurd and, therefore, we ask the rest of the groups also to join and that we can improve this Law of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.169.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Corominas. Next, to defend the emena presented for the Popular Party of Catalonia, has the word Mrs. Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.170.0	Okay. It seems that confusing the whole thing with the part in this camera has almost become a contagious infection. And why do I say that? I say that because in the end the Antifrau Office of Catalonia is a part, not the whole, of the instruments we can have to improve democratic quality in Catalonia. The fight against corruption, democratic regeneration, of course, is a task that commits us to all parliamentary groups. Therefore, those lessons that there is someone who has a certain moral superiority over other parliamentary groups, I think they are a vision and a very short-sighted party strategy, but of very little political depth and above all of very little democratic quality, precisely. All the parliamentary groups that we are represented in this Chamber, without exception, the fruit of that common awareness..., which have been set up several committees of study on the fight against corruption, and of those committees of study I am absolutely sure that measures will come out that will allow, first, to detect, secondly, to block the step, and then, thirdly, to expel precisely those individuals who do not believe in the commitment and duty of public service, which in the end is the exercise of the political task. I am absolutely sure that these measures will affect all those bodies which, in the end, are therefore actors, and are necessary actors in order to achieve that desired objective from which no parliamentary group is exempted and from which no parliamentary group has lost sight, which is the objective of improving our democratic quality. Society claims it, that's how it is. But also as a society the members of the political parties also claim it. Not only are these demands of society voiced and echoed, but they also commit themselves to serious work to improve that democracy. Therefore, if the anti-corruption office is not the only instrument, if different institutions converge with regard to the fight against corruption, with regard to democratic regeneration, not validating a proposal for a law that only affects the anti-corruption office has nothing to do with not wanting to improve our democratic quality in Catalonia or not wanting to introduce mechanisms that enable this democratic regeneration of which you both speak and practice little. The anti-corruption prosecutor's office does a very good job in this regard. The judges and the courts, the Union of Accounts, the intervenors – which we often forget – the Syndic of Greuges and the office, all these elements need coordination, all these elements have a difficult task, precisely, to develop, to detect and to coordinate themselves in matters of corruption. And, therefore, we understand that any change must also take into account those actors that I have said. Why? Because that will allow us, one, to seriously face the debate, to do what seriously, with a search for consensus, and also to be able to make a good law. I mean, what the saying says, right? : do the job well done. And, therefore, it often happens that when there are matters that have legal connotation – and of course the Anti-Fraud Office has it – a thorough study is required, which guarantees regulatory stability over time and gives some legal certainty. And that cannot be done if this proposal for a law has been made. Obviously, each group has the legitimacy of presenting the proposals with the points it wishes, without consensus with the other parliamentary groups and with the normative content it creates most appropriate. But what would be claimed is a certain long-term look, a certain long-term commitment that allows any change to be made in that way that I have said: seriously, with a thorough study, that guarantees stability in time and legal certainty, and this has not happened with it. Among other things, because if we look at the date and the stamp of entry of this bill we are going to meet with a curious thing, and the curiosity is that..., let's say this bill at the end seems to be certainly inspired – inspired – in a hangover of teletypes and news for the month of June. And, therefore, that speed – that is, you have devoted less than a month to making this proposal of law – so it gives the result it gives, and it is a proposal of law that, as Mr. Corominas has commented – and in that I agree with it, and not that it is bad that we agree in some opinion – because, in fact, it has very little seriousness and very little work behind it. In the end we find that this proposal of law... the explanatory statement, in the end, is the basis of this proposal, isn't it? , and the explanatory statement is very clear, and the explanatory statement says one thing very clear: that one of the unique reasons for the presentation of this law is just the appointment of the director of the office. The head of the office, of course, is elected on the proposal of the Government, through the president, and is elected in this parliamentary chamber by a strengthened majority; therefore, it is not true that it is appointed by finger. But I understand that we can come to discuss what the appointment is and what requirements this candidate should have. What we do not understand and what we are not going to do is to proceed to amend the few articles that this bill has in order, in the end, to have to make an absolutely new bill. Among other things, because it would be de facto to withdraw this proposal, to make a new one and, moreover, not to have that coordination that we need with the other agencies. We don't understand why a text is made that proposes, in the end, to appoint the director practically, huh? , with a selection process very similar to a public offer of employment, where the candidates are undergoing a sort of selection process, where in addition the Committee on Institutional Affairs practically becomes a gateway, a gateway of scrutiny, exposure and contempt for all those professionals who even in the text say that you have great accredited experience in similar bodies – there are no similar ones, but well – a great accredited experience or, at least, a prestige within the legal sphere, and you want to practically turn the Committee on Institutional Affairs into a gateway where the prestige of those who are not elected director of the office is absolutely on the ground. We do want a good Director of the Anti-Fraud Office. But we consider that a process like this precisely what it would produce is the opposite effect, that is, that it would not call the best, but that it would be those who have little prestige to lose those who appeared in that kind of catwalk that they want to set up in that commission. Moreover, this process has already begun in the Valencian Community, and precisely – I think experience serves something, right? – in the Valencian Community it has offered many problems. I think it would be good for us to learn from that experience. It is true that we can even begin to debate, because, if that proposal which was made, in the case of Mr Gimeno, by the President of the Generalitat, notified almost with press release and without any contact with any of the parliamentary groups, in the case of Mr Gimeno was not the appropriate one. Of course, yes, we can come in and talk about it. We can even go in and talk about the fact that the staff who are part of the office should be a career official, which this proposal does not say; that we could actually start talking about it. But we understand that nothing is said, because this proposition has enough anxiety about news, lots of demagogic content and little deep and paused work, right? Throughout your exhibition you said: "I want to know – I want to know – what the.... has explained a little bit the misfortunes of the office and told us: "I want to know what the reasons are. Well, the reasons are these – the reasons are these – and they are also the same as in 2008. And it is curious that they are the same as in 2008 and that, in addition, a colleague of his, who is now not, of Ciutadans, said the following with regard to the Anti-Fraud Office Law: that the joy was not complete, among other things, because he wanted to "to appoint the director of the Anti-Fraud Office, the president or president of the Generalitat, on behalf of the Government, must propose to the Parliament the candidate, who must compare before the parliamentary commission corresponding to this assessment, etcetera. I mean, changing your mind is legitimate, it's no crime. You have done it, you did it in 2008, and we do what we do is keep us, keep us in our judgment, because we consider that the way of choosing that director of the Anti-Fraud Office... is it better? Possibly so; but a public job offer contest and a despicable walkway is not the best way. On the other hand, I would like to say, before closing my speech and explaining to you the reasons why we do keep our amendment as a whole, that we are absolutely convinced that the very ones who have withdrawn the amendment here today as a whole tomorrow are going to block the creation of a new law of the Anti-Fraud Office. And they are going to be exactly the same ones who are not going to want to improve neither the mechanism of choice, nor the director, nor, above all, that of the functioning of the office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.171.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Then, to fix its position, has the word of Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.172.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs, the truth is that we could share some of the arguments respecting the content of the law's proposal that have triggered the spokespersons, in this debate, of Junts for the Yes and of the People's Party. Not all of them seem interesting to us, but we can share that it is basically a proposal of law that modifies the Law of the Antifrau Office around the election, the selection, if they want, the selection and the election of the director of the Antifrau Office; does some modification also respect the person who has to act the attached address of the Antifrau Office, and then, let's say, as more remarkable questions – not to say that there is no other content – does some modification respect the termination and to what happens in an inter-initiation situation to the head of the Antifrau Office. The fact is that we have not presented a totality, among other things, because we thought that this was the occasion because the assembly of parliamentary groups in the chamber could delve into a debate that we had in a hurry around some facts that we all know and that are difficult, certainly, and that motivated the removal of the confidence of the chamber in the person of the former director of the Anti-Fraud Office. He said that we had a quick debate, because at that time all of us said: "It might be worth thinking about the choice mechanism of the person who is to encapsulate the office, perhaps it would be worth doing a more global reflection on the margins in which the office is moving... It was said here, and it is true, that it has a peculiar naturalness of what our tradition is, but at that time it was decided to introduce a figure like this. We think that it would be unfair to carry over the spaces of the Anti-Fraud Office all over prevention and the fight against corruption – it has also been done in some other intervention –; there are many other mechanisms that in a coordinated way should attempt to end up with this type of practice. And the truth is that the Anti-Fraud Office is soft on some margins that are certainly narrow. Some time we have said, I don't know if with enough precision, but I think it's understood, that it's soft between the suspense and the index, because, at the moment I find that there might be signs of a crime commission, then I have to return it to the prosecution or to the court. And, therefore, it is an unusually delicate land, in which the review of procedural guarantees also for individuals or bodies – that at the head and at the end there is always someone in the lead – that they are being investigated..., so it is worth reviewing, let's say, if we have found a proper game of weights and counterweights in the development of the procedures that the Anti-Fraud Office will last, and then check if we believe we have endowed it, right? ... I am not referring only to questions of material and human resources, which also, but certainly would not be the object of the same law, only if we have endowed it with the ideals to be able to make this task so delicate that we have entrusted it to it. Therefore, from our modest point of view, what would be hot is to take advantage of the opportunity that the law's proposal offers us to try to have these debates that we said it was worth having, without the press that the fact of having discovered such an irregular, so hard, so difficult to qualify as the one we witnessed. It is true that the election mechanism deserves special attention, because it has been questioned on various occasions if the responsibility of the Parliament of Catalonia to choose the people who are at the head of the Anti-Fraud Office, and after which it has to follow whose action it is, is quite in line with the mechanisms that it actually has at its disposal, huh? And, therefore, it's okay that we plant it. We agree that the formula sorted for the Ciutadans Group, very legitimately, the formula proposed, seems to us to be able to raise another series or another category of problems that the current system does not raise, and, in change, perhaps, in some way, therefore, it might be interesting, vague, to delve into some of the logics it tries to introduce. But it's worth it, let's say, with little lead, huh? , because it's about trying to improve and not creating new problems or new sources of conflict. I am sure that in the soul of the group that proposes it is not that, but it is true that, in our opinion, some of the solutions that they propose, to put it this way, are either exorbitant or can open other fronts of conflict, or in some case they are probably redundant with questions that the same read with its current wording already contemplates or questions that with the current wording of the same law we have already been able to make without too much problem from the chamber – before I also made reference to Junts's spokesman for the Yes in this debate. Now, we have to say, thank you... we're surprised, because a task was laid to the totality, but we are grateful that Junts withdrew for the Yes. We understand that this, in principle, should make it easier for this proposal for you to follow its processing. And we don't know well if I respond to a reflection on the contents of the bill's proposal, if it's, let's say, a different assessment of the opportunity, or if it's a different assessment of the cost of opportunity that I had that this bill's proposal didn't prosper with the company that seemed to be doing it. But in any case it's good news, and I think I should thank you. Now, we're gonna have to call all of us, then, let's just say, to do the job we order ourselves if we decide to process this law. Because I am telling you very honestly: if at the end of the process, if at the end of the legislative process, after we have worked on the question, we are not very sure and very sure, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that we are able to improve the current text, we, even though we have not presented it to the totality and yet we are very open to debate all these matters, we do not link, now, to give it a support at the end of the legislative process, because in some cases it is better for us to have a text that has allowed us to act when it is possible not to introduce, let us say, in a hasty way questions that may arise in some problems. And there are a lot of things to think about around both the office and the mechanisms that Parliament has to know what is happening in organizations that have a direct connection, such as the office, or, even so, and even if it comes out slightly of the subject – I hope that the president does not immediately cry out to me to the question – she also respects the mechanics and the way in which we do control tasks, in general; for example, in commissions of inquiry. Look, I'm looking at this room a second. This room is arranged so that you transmit that the authority is the presidency of the Parliament of Catalonia and the joint Bureau. When we ask people to appear on a commission of inquiry or even when people who are evaluating their merits and who are able to occupy a position as transcendent as this one, let's say, occupy this position, or similar, in the rooms we have of commissions, and not the counter. In change, if one is fixed in the hearings they make in Anglo-Saxon countries or in the United States of America, the layout in the room is absolutely different. And it's true that it can be anecdotal, but I assure you that this, transferred to the image that public opinion is the form of how debates are produced and how control is produced, also has or leaves some effects. So let's think about this, all that we can do; work, all that we can do. We expect you to thrive on this law proposal. And we'll be very careful and very careful in the parliamentary process to see if we can really improve the text of the current law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.173.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Next, has the word Lord Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.174.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, well, today we are discussing, in fact, the totality of a bill that announces as a result – I quote – the better procedures for appointing and controlling members of the Anti-Fraud Office. To say from the outset that we will not give support to the message to the totality that is maintained and that, on the contrary, we congratulate ourselves that the Parliamentary Group of Joints for the Yes has withdrawn its address to the totality, opening, therefore, somehow, the possibility or facilitating..., because this discussion is somewhere. Even though we do not want to store, from the beginning, and say it clearly, therefore, the reservations and doubts generated by the text, the proposal, the design made by Ciutadans in this aspect. The proposal announced, of course, is laudable, but the text that comes under consideration does not, we believe, achieve the objective that it proposes, we would say that it more quickly draws a regulation that seems to us to be more boring and harder and more operational than the law we have at these times. Above all, the text, it has already been said, focuses very much on the problem of the Anti-Fraud Office in its address, in the name of its address, when, if we recall the recent appearance to the Commission of Institutional Affairs of Mr Gimeno, which it exposed, therefore, the general lines of its work plan, the concerns that it revealed there were much more there, eh? , and he informed us of his feeling that it would be useful to introduce changes and legislative changes in the design of what the Anti-Fraud Office Law is, but that it was necessary to measure it, collect inputs, think about it and act with no precipitation. And that's what it looks like, that there's a certain precipitation in the design that's coming up. In general, we think that casuistics and detailism, when they want to transpose laws, rarely just solve problems. Because things work in a matter as sensitive as this in a reasonable way, it is better to have a clear philosophy, a few well-righteous standards and, above all, an intense democratic and political life. The key is more quickly in the interaction between a clear law and a parliamentary activity and the regular control of this Parliament; that is, the relationship with politics. But, well, if you consider it necessary to debate and reconsider the Anti-Fraud Office Law, let's do it, huh? , there is no problem, in this sense; on the contrary, welcome follow the concern and the willingness to have a more effective style. But in this case, if you don't mind and start – it's our opinion – collecting the inputs that come to us from the same Anti-Fraud Office, huh? that he found and found it difficult in his new single to pull forward and that his own director wanted to share his experiences and how he loved and how he observed the demands and needs to pull forward the office. Because, first of all, we should be aware of one thing: there is no regulation that can predict everything or that can shield us from the past and finally from the multiple circumstances that can distort the functioning of an institution. It is true, in every man's mind, that it has also occurred here; we come from a very painful and striking case, to the Anti-Fraud Office; from a major crisis of the office that ended with the stormy dismissal of its director, Mr. De Alfonso, in considering his conspiracy activities – I myself used this expression in this Faristol – with the former Minister of the Interior were ethically reprehensible and constituted an absolute breach of loyalty, of loyalty to the Parliament of Catalonia. But do you really think that the one that failed there was the director's appointment mechanisms? Do you really think that we could get rid of episodes like that just with better regulations? Actually, if we're done redeeming, and I think the Parliament acted responsibly and zealously, huh? , in this crisis, has been mediating the political action of Parliament. Don't remember you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr De Alfonso – I don't know if here, in the Committee on Institutional Affairs, eh? – who launched the challenge to us told us: «Do you find me a legal argument written in the law that allows my dismissal? We found it above all in political considerations, in what is the primary function of this Parliament, which is to provide common sense, responsibility and transparency in the functioning of institutions. This doesn't solve a regulation for a lot of detail that it wants to be. I'm not saying in the sense that we don't have to have regulations, but we don't do fetishism about these things, do we? , because fetishism keeps us away from what is fundamental, which is democratic vigilance and operationality and the flow of institutions in its functioning. The main conclusion we have from this episode is that we need more democratic life and more politics. Change in the OAC, so listen to everyone, but define them carefully. And, starting with the composition and professional status of your staff, looking at the proposal that comes under consideration, would it be reasonable and possible to jump to the situation of a strictly functional structure, as we understand Ciutadans's proposal, in the amendment of Article 1, without any possibility of eventualities or trust? It seems questionable to us, with the planting. Should I place above all – that's a little bit of an experience that also translates the modification of the first article, or of article 8, above all – to the director of the office almost in a situation of permanent suspension? Is it necessary to add complexity to the design mechanisms as the proposed amendment to Article 9 does? We do not find sufficiently reasonable the requirements of professional solvency and ethical quality which have already been established by the current law – conditions of eligibility which this same law, as I recall, already extends to the closer collaborators of the Director of the OAC – and which may overtake the change that you are making to Article 25? Is it not enough, perhaps, to elect the charge for the three five parts of Parliament at first and possibly for most of the time in a second as we have so far stipulated? Understand me well, we are not saying that all or some of these changes cannot improve the OAC, let us talk about it – let us talk about it – but we insist on the need to work on it with great care and to integrate the inputs, proposals and experiences of the same office into our reflection. And finally, for what it does to the amendment that makes the proposal of law of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans to Article 12, it is not very clear the current regular relationship of the OAC with the Parliament through the commission that designates its regulation, is it through the Commission of Institutional Affairs, as it has been so far? We think that things are aimed at without ending or proposing significant changes... or, when they are introduced, therefore, they seem to be normative replenishments that do not go to the root of the problem and that do not bring a new horizon. But, I insist, if this proposal of the law serves because we open the debate, we open it, but I insist on it a little more, too, with serenity and with the cure that requires such a delicate aspect as this. To sum up, beyond the intentions and concerns the preamble announces, eh? And what sense of doubt, then, would all the parliamentary groups share, we think that the text did not just put the focus there where we have the problem. And the problem we would almost say – this Parliament and our country – is the need to give away to politics. We complain that we try to solve political problems by judicial means, and sometimes we try to solve problems of fluidity in our parliamentary life through more far-reaching regulations. We're not getting out of here. But, I insist, we are glad that a statement has been withdrawn to the full, and we will vote against what is kept, because we think that, in the end, consistent with what we are telling you, we can give fluid to parliamentary life, and that is where we will go down to detail, go down to concreteness and resolve what we have to solve, which is, therefore, trying to have effective, effective, anti-corruption, anti-struggle, anti-struggle, anti-struggle, anti-struggle, anti-struggle, anti-struggle, anti-struggle, anti-struggle, anti-struggle, anti-struggle, anti-struggle, anti-struggle. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] for the transparency of our institutional functions, and what we have to do – I end with this reflection – above all, above all the will and need and responsibility for parliamentary activity, which is the last guarantee for which we have to be fully responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.175.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. Next, the words of Mr. Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.176.0	Good afternoon. We will vote against the threat to totality and therefore agree with the handling of the bill, while – and I will repeat in this sense that there have been some other interventions that have already been said – we think that we have to look forward to the outcome of the work done by the Commission for the Study of Measures to Fight Corruption, which, in fact, during this month of fever, has to draw its conclusions. And, therefore, we see the project very precipitated as to the text. And, in this sense, then, well, that there is no doubt in the group that we are proposing to send it, as in the least, with regard to all the questions that we are going to raise at the conclusions of the study committee, and also in the line, therefore, of the motion that has already been approved by this Parliament, precisely a motion that was focused on discussing the control of the tax authorities and that we approved a few weeks before you skipped the Escandol de Alfonso, and then came up with an idea, that is the catal mechanism of fighting corruption as a mechanism..., not as a "xinguite" – and I am already ahead of someone saying it – but as a mechanism and scope for coordination of all tax areas, and so on, tax coordination, etc. Letting it be said, too, that the Government when presenting the Bill of Presuppositions to this Parliament, despite its obligation to give compliments to the motion, and therefore to provide this mechanism with substance, therefore, it presented the Bill of Presuppositions without any presuppositions, in this sense, the question that we have outlined and that it seems that ultimately, therefore, the Government has been a specific source of struggle against corruption that allows us to allocate concrete parties to this future mechanism a copy of the law created. So, that said, we have all this work, don't we? In fact, in the next few weeks, it seems to us that this bill focuses on a very concrete issue and does so in a way that we have not just made it clear that this is the right time, right? From the outset, it makes a sacrament of the question of character, let's say, of functioning of the director or director of the Anti-Fraud Office that we have some doubts. We have some doubts because De Alfonso is going to work. That is to say, if all this is related to the controversy surrounding the designation of this person as director of the Anti-Fraud Office, the fact that it was required to function previously or the fact that it was, moreover, a senior official as a magistrate and a member of the judiciary, in this case we have seen that it has not saved its provenance or its suitability in the course of the course exercise. Therefore, going to pose that the rau problem in this feature seems to us to be a totally skewed view. On the other hand, we are obviously concerned that there are judges of the Spanish judiciary who have the profile of De Alfonso and who continue to exercise as magistrates, right? In fact, we have to say that we are especially disappointed with the performance of the Bureau of this chamber as everything that we, since July, have been asking you to exercise as the Parliament of Catalonia in order to clear the responsibilities of Mr Daniel de Alfonso, so it has not been done. We asked that, like the Parliament of Catalonia, a complaint be lodged against Mr De Alfonso and that no action has been taken. We asked that an investigation be opened and that all the damage, not only of the image, but all the property damage and all the damage to the effects of the investigations opened at the Anti-Fraud Office, and whether or not it has been done or, if it has been done, no communication has been given to the group. And it's hard – it's hard – because at this point in time the only judicial decision that has been adopted in relation to Mr. De Alfonso is a complaint that brought about Democratic Convergence. And I find it regrettable that it must be precisely a democratic convergence that there has been the only organisation or the only institution that is asking to clean up responsibilities in relation to Mr. De Alfonso. And, therefore, in any case, we entered a specific petition into the Bureau of Parliament. The Bureau of Parliament has not made any decision on this point, and to open the debate on the best way to appoint director or director of the Anti-Fraud Office without having clarified, to have cleared up the responsibilities of Mr De Alfonso, so it seems to us... well, it seems to us a way of doing it clearly wrong. In any case, we think that there will be many ways to resolve this issue, that of the election system. A few years ago, for example, in the area of the Catalan countries, we have had the approval of the Parliament of the Islands for the creation of a preventive and anti-corruption office for the Balearic Islands, and that in this office it is opting for a different system, that it is neither the one proposed by Ciutadan nor the current one at these times, but a system that is not followed by the Government the one proposing the candidate, but the different parliamentary groups that propose it. It is a possible formula that opens a little more the fan and that, in any case, therefore, allows us to go back on this question. In any case, we have already said that we are willing to talk about it, to discuss it, and, in some way, as we raised with the Justice Commission last week, with regard to the Councillor's appearance for the presuppositional issue, so we think that the situation that our country and the Spanish State's joint view of corruption, therefore, is difficult; they do not depend exclusively, obviously, on how to elect the Director of the Anti-Fraud Office; it is a systemic problem, it is a much more structural problem. But, in the end, the data we knew a while back – and I will not refer to demoscopic data, but to actual data from the General Council of the Judiciary – suggest that there are 82 people in the Spanish State who are making prison sentences for corruption-related crimes – 82. And what is the total data of prisoners and prisoners in the Spanish State? Sixty-one thousand. That is to say, of the 61,000 people who complete prison sentences, only 82 are for corruption crimes. I believe that this is significant enough of the class bias of our judicial system, prison system, and, ultimately, of the conjunction of our legal system, and, therefore, that the reforms that we have to undertake are far more down and far larger than that which is being proposed by Ciutadans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.177.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the People's Party of Catalonia. We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Roldán, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.178.0	Madam President, because there were papers in totality, the People's Party kept it and I couldn't stand it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.179.0	Yeah, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, There's a word from Mrs. Lorena Roldán, to position herself.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.180.0	Yes, thank you, President. First of all, I should like to thank Mr Pedret and Mr Rabell for their tone. I hope that, if this amendment to the whole of the People's Party does not succeed, as it does not seem to be, we will be able to discuss all these doubts that have been explained to us here today in this speech. To the Member of the CUP, Mr Salellas, to say that we are grateful that he has taken up the issue of the conclusions of the Anti-Corruption Commission, because it is a committee that, let us remember, we are pushing from Citizens and that, therefore, we are going to be very keen and far ahead of these conclusions and the work that is being carried out in this committee. A Junts pel Yes, therefore, thank you for having withdrawn the amendment. Mr. Corominas told me, I see you're a little... [[the speaker laughs]] Mr. Corominas has told me that what I said is amazing to you. Look, what I find amazing is the amount of excuses you've found, so let's not talk about corruption. They have quite little credibility, the truth, talking about the fight against corruption. Look, we criticize what Mr. De Alfonso did, of course he did. [[Widow's remorse.]] And that is why we also ask for the Minister to appear at the Congress of Deputies. And I tell you more – I tell you more –: listenings must be condemned when made by the PP, but also when made by you. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] There too...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.181.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.182.0	...we must condemn them. [[Some applause.]] So... really, I'd tell you not to come and teach us lessons, please. I already understand that it must be difficult to get up here being the PP or being of Convergence and coming here to speak precisely of transparency. I get it, but, well, that's what there is. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Corominas also told me [[the remorse of the voice persists]] What...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.183.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.184.0	... we know little, which is noted by the editorial staff that we know little about the functioning of the Anti-Fraud Office. No, of course, the operation you know it, because... – at first hand, moreover – because as you put yours, then, of course, you have information that we, of course, do not have, I tell you now. [[Some applause.]] More things than Mr. Corominas also told me. He said that..., well, that these requirements could not be met because there are no similar profiles when we talked about the subject of experience. What I believe is that, of course, all those who are not yours will no longer meet these requirements of experience and these requirements that you like. But, well, still, we appreciate that you have withdrawn this amendment and we can already discuss the most widely during the presentation of the law. And finally, I refer to Mrs. Esperanza García, who, well, the truth is that you have spoken to us..., seemed a little Mr. Rajoy, saying that everything seems a mess to you. Look, she told me we talked a lot about regeneration, but we didn't practice it much. Well, I'm gonna tell you... look, I'm gonna tell you everything you're doing Citizens. Look, we have tabled a motion by Citizens that was adopted last December by this Parliament – which, by the way, I take advantage of to ask the Government to implement it as soon as possible –; we have also been the driving force behind the Anti-Corruption Commission; we have also been the driving force behind the creation of the Palau Commission. And where Citizens go, where Citizens have been decisive, we have demanded the fulfillment of these measures of regeneration and transparency..., in the pact, for example, signed with their own party or in the agreement reached in Andalusia, with Chaves and Griñán. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] We have also registered in the Congress of Deputies a proposal...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.185.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.186.0	... a proposal for a comprehensive law to combat corruption and protect whistleblowers. So that says that we talk a lot about regeneration and that we don't practice it, so I'm telling you no. It will be necessary to see in the coming months how you practice it, this regeneration, because we will talk, we will talk about the elimination of the unjustified privileges of the high offices; we will also talk about eliminating strenghts; we will also talk about removing the public offices that are..., that is, the posts that are charged with that public office; we will also talk about removing the revolving doors and establishing mechanisms for preventing and managing conflict of interest situations and also about eliminating political pardons, huh? We'll talk about this. We'll see how you practice that regeneration that you told us you didn't do. Look, today, Transparency International has warned us that Spain has a very serious problem of political corruption that must be faced in a comprehensive and patchless way and asks politicians, literally, to ‘put on the pile and assume the fight against corruption as a matter of state and social interest. You can be sure that Citizens see it this way and that we will fight corruption in all that is in our hands. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.187.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Roldán. Next, we proceed to the vote of the protest to the totality, presented for the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. As the speech to the total was rejected by 11 votes in favour and 118 against, the Proposition of Law 14/2008, of 5 November, of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia, continues its processing. [[Greetings.]] [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the assassinations of Atocha]] [[401-00017/11]] Before passing to the next item on the order of the day I pray to Mr Joan Josep Nuet, third secretary of the Bureau, who gives reading to the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia on the anniversary of the assassinations of Atocha.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.188.0	Thank you, President. « Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the assassinations of Atocha : On the 24th generation of 1977 a group of feixiste gunmen broke out in a known office of labor lawyers in Madrid, at number 55 of the Atocha square, and murdered Luis Javier Benavides Orgaz, Serafín Holgado, Ángel Rodríguez Leal, Francisco Javier Sauquillo i Enrique Valdelvira. They were the last saluting highlights of the Franco regime, condemned for the unstoppable desire for change and freedom that shook the entire society. The struggles of the world of work to achieve equal social and labour rights that had been recognised in the democracies of our European environment were a prominent part of this movement. Today, forty years later, the Parliament of Catalonia bows down to the memory of lawyers and workers who died at the Atocha office and retrenatge, with this gesture, to all the women and all the men who, in the most terrible times of the dictatorship, and also in the troubled years and not free from suffering from the transition, gave the best of themselves to offer the new generations a future of social progress and political freedom. The Parliament of Catalonia, recovered in the same period as the representative institution of our people, invites the citizenry to preserve the memory of those facts and of those people. Without this record, we could hardly advance to the nine strands of social justice and democratic fullness. Palau del Parlament, 25th generation of the year 2017. [[Strong applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.189.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. [[Asking the Government about the revision of the autonomic financing model]] [[300-00114/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the revision of the model of autonomous financing, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Lord Santi Rodriguez. [[Pause.]] Thanks for going out in a hurry and quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.190.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Councillors, Vice President and Councillor of Economy, will allow me to begin this inquiry by recriminating it, because I sincerely regret it, won't I? But, frankly, as in Catalan and, therefore, as in Spanish, we deeply regret the perception that you in a speech yesterday in Brussels expressed about what is Spanish and the panorama that is Spanish. [[Some applause.]] And allow'muna_segona consideration, but, already, a little in matter, now I give thanks. I give you the thanks to be here, to the Chamber, to answer this question about the model of autonomous financing, since..., unlike the President of the Generality, who when he attends a conference of presidents to talk about these issues, running away currents, or, also, unlike the senators of his parliamentary group, his governing partners, the assembly of Senators of Junts for the Yes, who when a commission of autonomous communities is convened in the Senate to talk about these issues also running away. And, therefore, it is gratifying that at least you are worthy of speaking in this autonomic finance cluster, which can certainly be an insignificant issue, such as employment, education, social protection, poor energy, dependence or financing of local administrations. Certainly for the Government of which you are Vice-President and advise the priority is only independence, but, modestly, from the People's Party we suggest that, in case you do not arrive, you also take care of other issues that affect us in Catalans, and a lot. That's what Mr. Iceta's saying all along, isn't it? While independence does not rise, while, therefore, things have to pass and we have to take care of things that affect Catalans. And I'm telling you from the deep conviction that independence won't come. And that's probably why we're worried about these things, which may be as trivial as education—education—dependence, which the government may have, but it's certainly what motivates us to be in this Parliament working precisely for the welfare of Catalan society. And one of these questions is autonomous financing and, I insist, local financing too. You know very well, because you are an economic advisor and you are on the spot, you are dealing at this time with the debate of assumptions, the debate in all the senses, the parliamentary debate, the extra-parliamentary debate, with light and tachographs that I have ended..., "light and tachographs between comets, the government with its partners, and you know perfectly well that the government's policies depend to a large extent on the financing model. Not the majority, the vast majority of the tickets made available by the Generalitat de Catalunya come precisely from the financing model. So, we'd like to know, counselor, what's the criteria – if it's in tea, we think it is – of the government on the outcome of the vigourous financing model. And if it were possible for us to get to know him directly, we would rather not go to the Parliament of the Balearic Islands than ask them what the financing model looks like to the Government of Catalonia, right? I say this because as you refer to the dialogue with the Committee of Experts or the dialogue with the Government of Spain on the financing of communities is done through the Balearic Islands, so we would prefer that this dialogue was directly between the Government of the Government of Catalonia and the Catalans, and between the Government of the Government of Catalonia and the Government of the State. We, the People's Party of Catalonia, have a position, I already recognize it: it is not a maximalist position as expressed by the previous Government of the Generality and the former President, Mr. Mas, who was the economic concert, but we are convinced that the position we expressed is a possible expression. And generally the possible approaches have more chances of succeeding than the maximalist approaches, which have a huge chance of failing, and I believe that in this situation, in the long years of modern self-government of the Government of Catalonia, I think we have more than enough examples. In generic terms we are convinced that the current funding model is better. We will not now assess who gave support or did not give support, criticized or did not criticize the funding model. We are where we are and we are in the situation that we are and, therefore, in view of what we have seen over the past few years, and we have also taken into account the circumstances that have occurred over the past few years, without any retribution, and we have said this over the years, to the People's Party of Catalonia we are convinced that the financing system is better, especially in terms of territorial equity. We also have to say that Catalonia is not the most affected or harmed community by the financing model, but that there are others who are in the worst position, but precisely for this reason it serves the revisions of the financing model, to assess who its function has been, and, therefore, it provides for impossible modifications to correct all those aspects that have been detected that are malfunctioning or that are perfectable, are perfectly better. And I'm expressly saying this because, to the recurring speech band of the Government of the Generality, from now on and years ago, that the LOFCA requires a new funding model for the year 2014, I'm telling you that the LOFCA that requires there to be a revision of the 2014 model and, therefore, in this sense I think it's worth making an assessment of the current model until now for such a purpose to provide for the corresponding modifications. We would also like to know which is the Government's opinion – and I insist, if in tea – on which should it be, according to its criteria the orientation of model reform. And in this sense we believe that there are two important premises: one for past experience, but two, also for the experience that we are living. On past experience, man, we have to bear in mind that the financing models that are based on tax receipts are submissive to the vagaries of the same economy. That is to say, if the economy is fine, the tax receipts are fine; if the economy is cool, the receipts are also cool, and this is not just about the state's tickets, but about the generality's tickets and the local government's tickets. And, therefore, this is an element that I believe we must bear in mind. And secondly, it is not to say that the public services are underfunded after saying that the fault is the State, especially if it is not taken into account that the decision on the substantive expenditure is its decision, it is a decision of its Government, also of the CUP, but above all of its Government and those that support it in this Parliament. Therefore, if the teaching, the sanitation, the social services do not have sufficient resources, the responsibility cannot be of the State, the responsibility is – no, now you will explain, counselor – the responsibility is of the one who prioritizes the expenses from the resources available. Clearly, we, fixed's, can come to understand that, clearly, after spending 127,000_euros on four advertising pages in France, Germany, Italy and Belgium, or assuming 15_millions for external matters without holding the competitions in external relations, or assuming 93_millions for a tax agency that will have the most disastrous efficiency relations of all the OECD, to the President of the Generalitat shames them to go to the conference of presidents to say that it needs to improve the financing of the Generalitat of Catalonia. I can hear that. But I think that you should try to put forward the interests of the Catalan society's joint venture and, therefore, adjust its expenses and its spending intentions to those basic services that the Catalans demand; leaving their party duties aside from public finance, and then, in this way, it would be much easier to ask for better funding from the Catalonian Government to benefit the Catalan joint venture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.191.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.192.0	Thank you, good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, Madam President. The honourable Member, I begin with a reflection on the same subject with which you started your intervention, saying that... if I did not understand it badly, you said that you regretted my intervention in the European Parliament. It's possible that I'm sorry, let's just say, I won't discuss it. In any case, my intervention in the European Parliament is the same intervention I have had on many other occasions, and also in the European Parliament, when I was a Member a few years ago. I raised exactly, or enough of the same issues that I raised then, and that I also raised from this Faristol, or that I explained on the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council repeatedly, or that I explained in bilateral meetings with the Minister of Hisenda, with the Vice President of the Spanish Government, with the Minister of Economy, etc. Therefore, it may be that you regret the content of my intervention; in any case, it seems to me that it is impossible for him to surprise, let's say, eh? Why – why – I raised some of the questions. I suppose you're referring, for example... I explained an obviousness. Of course, an obvious fact that the Minister of Hisenda was the first to point me out in the first encounter that we did a few months ago, and it is: escort, the Spanish State finds, or not, before a complicated situation before the management of its public debt. So, the answer is, yes, it's complicated. Does that mean it's just complicated for the Spanish State? No, no, It is complicated for many other public administrations, for many other economies and for many other states, yes. Is it bad that I explained it? I don't think so; I think we should be able to talk about these issues. I insist, I have also raised them in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, and we have certainly always found silence by reply. Just as it seems to me that it is necessary and that it is my responsibility – not just as an Economic Advisor, but also as a citizen concerned about the future of its society, its fellow citizens, etc. – to raise the difficulties with which the management of the Pension Reserve Fund in the Spanish State is found, and the harm that has been done and is being done, and the difficulties that may arise. This can be taken as a concrete toilet to the decisions made by the Government of the Spanish State, which corresponds to the same party to which you belong, and surely there is a part of this toilet. Now, there's also a bit of recognition, and I've done it many times since this Faristol, to say: "Look, the situation is complex for everyone, and whatever is found in the management of these elements is sure to face enormous difficulties. Therefore, I am not saying to him: "Listen, this only affects your party or it only affects the areas of responsibility that your party exercises, I don't say that. But I say to him: "Let us face up to great challenges. And I think it would be good for us all to be conscious. And it seems to me that it's good that I explain it and explain it to everyone, precisely in an attempt to find solutions. And I'll do it every time I get a chance, huh? I made myself clear. You ask us, make a second petition, which is the opinion on the current funding model. I think you know her; so, very negative. Not only does he respect the financing model, or not especially he respects the financing model, but he especially respects the compliment on the part of the Spanish Government of this financing model, because it is an absolutely long-term compliment that he is close to, in all respects. So, negative. I'm also asking you what criteria you should have a future financing model. The first and most fundamental of all is to complete it, which is complexi. Because it's not so much a question of criteria, which makes sense that they are very important: above all it's a question of the will of the compliment of this funding model, whether it's complete or not. And it seems to me that you should recognize it, it seems to me. Because it seems to me that it is evidence that the State, the Spanish Government, the PP Government in particular, did not by chance complete it. So, what are the criteria I should have? The first is the compliment. What's our conviction? Our conviction – with which you, of course, can absolutely disagree – is that the best guarantee of the compliments of the agreements is that the parties to the agreements are on an equal footing. And that means that we are convinced that the best way to guarantee the compliment of future agreements is that we are still free, that we have the same tools, that we have the same condition. Because we are convinced that in this context it is much easier, they will have much more impressions to complete the agreements. As simple as that: we want the best possible tools, the tools that any other state has, to try to cover the needs of our fellow citizens in the best possible way. And we understand that, besides, this is the best of the stimuli and the best of the reasons because the other side with which we can reach some kind of agreement in the future... – because we are convinced that we will reach many agreements also in the future, not only with the Spanish State, but with many other states–, therefore, that we are all satisfied. So..., also remind him of another evidence that you have recognized, and it's that, suddenly, they're still pressing to talk about a new funding model, but, in change, it's a funding model that's three years out of date, and so far they haven't had any interest in talking about it; not one. And another observation of respect. When you or other representatives of your party say: "It is here that we should arrive at great consensus, because, of course, it will be voting in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, escorted, the best guarantee because in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council there is a great consensus that it does not result that the ministry, all alone, has more votes than all the rest of the public administrations there. Because, if not, we are not ahead of a model of consensus: we are ahead of a model in which, if the opinions of the majority of public administrations follow, the criteria that the ministry demands will be imposed. And that is precisely what happened, for example, in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council last April, where there were more votes against the decision of the ministry, but, in change, it was imposed the decision of the ministry, despite the fact that the majority of the administrations there – certainly many of whom do not have any link with the political party that I represent or with the parliamentary group of which at these times I belong – despite the fact that the majority of the administrations voted against it. So, listen, if you really want a model of consensus, what you can't do is impose the decision based on the decision of only one of the parties participating in this Fiscal and Financial Policy Council; you have no sense. And, finally, another reflection that seems to me will also generate a huge consensus – and, listen, if it's not so, then you'll let me know. If we participated in a negotiation of this type and asked for a certain quantity – what was it, a pen –, what would the answer be? The answer would be: « No. As you know, the answer would be 'no'. Because that's what it's always been – always. In change, if we don't ask for a pen, to set an example, it's possible that if others ask for a straight line, maybe the tindran. What I am explaining here, I have also explained in the same terms, with the same words, in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, I have also said to them there, exactly the same..., or practically the same, perhaps with an example parallel to this one that I have just put to you, but precisely with the same content. And, certainly, no one denied me– no one. It's nothing new what I'm saying here and what I said yesterday, because it's been many years since I explained it; there, in Brussels, here and in Madrid and everywhere – all together. I therefore believe that our position of respect is clear. And finally, if you will allow me, a question: does the financing model guarantee the same amount of resources per capita to all citizens of the Spanish State? Yes or no? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, no. And you already know, you don't. And from here there were huge differences in the result of the financing model between many of the autonomous communities to which you now refer. If you really want to propose something in this sense, I propose this: exactly the same model of financing per capita for all the citizens of the Spanish State. And, by the way, if I wanted to plant, if I wanted to, look, there's also another way to plant it, which is the Joint Economic Committee; it's already there. If you have options, you have many options. Now, aside from the many options I have, which are many, I insist, it seems to me that the position is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.193.0	Vice President, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.194.0	...and my people are well-known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.195.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Some applause.]] There's a word from Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.196.0	Thank you, President. Almost telegraphically, counselor, because it seems that you have more room to ask me than the question I am asking you. But, in any case, I'll be delighted, when you're in your position, to let me question for you the opposition. Miri, first of all, I do not regret his intervention in the European Parliament. First, because I'm already telling you that I didn't have the feeling that you were at that time, yesterday, in the European Parliament, but that... look, and all about your interventions in the European Parliament when you were a Republican Left MEP. But it's that he went there yesterday as representing all the Catalans, and that's why I'm criticizing him. I will not criticize him for his interventions as the Republican Left Member or as the Republican Left Member; I will criticize him as the Vice-President of a government representing me. And I, like many thousands and thousands of Catalans, didn't feel represented by your government yesterday. Complicated about the Spanish public debt? Of course I do. But I'm not talking about the Tax and Finance Policy Council being silent on this issue. Or has the Government of Catalonia not rejected €60,000_million in funding? And is this thanks to the complications of the Spanish public debt? ; that yes, it is very high, it is at 100_percent of GDP. Of this Spanish public debt, obviously there is the debt to the communities and, therefore, among them there is the debt of the Government of Catalonia. But it is not worse that France, which is also at 100_percent of the gross domestic product; it is not worse than Italia, which is at 133_percent of the gross domestic product. Therefore, it is a situation, which you went to paint, from Espanya, which was to say: « Listen'm, the European Union is hot. Because the majority of European Union countries, a large majority of European Union countries, are in a similar situation. Listen, I'm not talking about the pension reserve fund, which you know perfectly well – and if not, it's not the truth and it's dishonest – that the reserve fund is constituted with the surpluses that have been there for a few years, because the years in which there are deficiencies can pay pensions. And that's what the government is doing now. And even all the Members of your parliamentary group so they recognize us in public, listen to me. And that's just it. He said: "We must face up to great challenges and be aware of them. Man! And so, as we are aware, the People's Party, and you are not aware of the Government of Spain and the Government of the People's Party. And precisely because of this, because we are aware of the great repts that we have in front of us, the President of the Government calls the presidents of the communities to a meeting to talk about the great repts that we have, which is this meeting in which the Government of the Generality decides to leave the Catalans orfs of representation. Complimentary financing model. Listen'm, counselor, the financing model is complete. Another thing is that you don't like them; I already understand, there are reasons why you don't like them. And the object motive, listen, is that there's been a crisis. Clearly, I know that we in Catalonia have had a government that has tried to avoid talking about the crisis whenever it has been possible; has sought other things, eh? , to avoid talking about the crisis and the effects of the crisis on the finances of the Generality. But the reality is that there has been a crisis that has affected the entrances of the State, the Generality, the local administrations, the families. Well, so, that's the effect, that's one of the effects it's had on the funding model. Clearly, another thing is that you don't like them either. I understand, that you, who gave support to this model of financing, at the end of the years the result did not please you. Listen to me, look, we're all wrong, and so sometimes we have to recognize that we've been wrong. Left Republican gave support to a finance model that they don't like right now. Well, listen to me, so, look, they recognize it and it's already there. It's a humiliation exercise that doesn't hurt anyone at all. Says: "The People's Party is now pressuring to reform the financing model. No, it's not that I have press or no press, listen: it's that the last legislature..., you know perfectly well; the thing that happens, that they don't say it, they hide it, they keep it, because they don't want to talk about that there was a serious crisis problem. Why? Home, you know that. Whose interests paid for the generality's debt a few years ago? : 7, 8_per_cent? 6, 7, 8_per_cent? 9_per_cent? Who's interested in paying now for the generality's debt? : 0.834_per_cent, which is the cost of the Spanish public debt to which the Generality is financed. So, that was the priority: to take the joint venture of the Spanish society out of the crisis situation. A time solved the problem of the crisis, so we try to improve the financing of public administrations. And that's what we're with now, that's what the government's with now. He said: "Home, there is a majority in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council that I don't like. So, look, I don't like the majority in this Parliament either. So, what do you want to do? That I didn't come? Of course, as I'll lose, I won't win. [[Rialles.]] Home, no, it doesn't seem normal. I can't leave my represented orfes de parula in this Parliament. So that's what we're asking: I don't leave the Catalans orres of representation in the organs of the State. And I finish, President, because I've spent time telling her that we're betting for a better amount of funding, but we also demand that resources be dedicated to public servants. And finally, I ask him if he is willing to adapt the government's spending to the needs of society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.197.0	You've run out of time, Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.198.0	And second, if they finally send someone I represent and defend the interests of Catalans...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.199.0	He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.200.0	...to the committee of experts and in all those bodies where the model of financing of Catalonia is discussed. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.201.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. The words of Mr Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.202.0	Good afternoon, another time. Mr Santi Rodríguez, you say I don't like the majority in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. I guess what I've explained is that the ministry, all alone, has more votes than all the rest of the public administration there. It's not that we don't like the majority, it's that the voting mechanism is like what would happen in this chamber if the Economy Council had 136 votes and, therefore, anything that is meant to vote on the other 134 votes is useless. Hey, wouldn't it look like...? Well, I don't think it would look so good, that's it. Now, you'd rather go in and look for the thing and if the president went there and if he didn't go there... Listen to one thing, forget it's a time of this and let's get back to focus: there's a hard public debt problem, yes or no? Yes, and you recognize it, and say, "But it has improved. All right, it's improved, but the deficit in the Spanish state is still higher than the increase in gross domestic product. And, therefore, the problem continues to grow. It's more, when a while from now – and this will happen, it will cheat a little more, it will cheat a little less, but it will pass – the types of interest suddenly, an increase of a 1_per_cent in the types of interest will represent a cost in the service of the debt of the Kingdom of Spain of 10,000_million euros. And you may prefer not to talk about this subject, you may see that you don't know and you don't see it, you may not know how much I put it, you may prefer to look for the thing at yourself, the irony – that's a lot of fun, huh? And I'm also sometimes sure I'm falling into this storm, sure I am – but that's not the question. The question is, is everyone making the effort they're looking for in this sense? The investments he is a fan of, are fan in the areas in which he produces the most economic return so that he can obtain the resources necessary to sustain the public policies that our citizens, that the conjunction of the citizenry needs? And I think the answer is no– I think the answer is no–, that the Spanish government continues to prioritize as it compensates for a certain investment in the Castor project, and as it charges the cost to gas consumers; the Spanish government prioritizes, as it rescues some highways that might never have been made and charges the cost to tax payers in the state joint. I believe that the decisions taken by the Spanish Government in this sense are ineffective, economic inefficiency decisions, which involve high levels of social injustice in the future because they weaken social policies and their future financing. And I also believe that this is the result, among other things, of deep democratic deficits. I'm not convinced. And as I'm not convinced, it seems to me that it's my obligation to explain it. And I also have the feeling that there are a lot of people who share this vision. And it's quite legitimate that you didn't share it, now I have all the right to explain it, even though I don't like it, I have all the right to explain it. I believe, frankly, that there are many things that have been done badly, that continue to be done badly and that could be done, in any case, much better. And I think that if you want to face these challenges and rather try to solve them than look for this permanent confrontation, etc., I think you'd be better disposed, you and the citizens you represent and those you didn't trust, to solve the problems of the future. And on the other hand, while you're obsessed with looking for confrontation, body to body, toilet, if you didn't go there or if you did go there but the other one..., the president didn't go there, etc., listen, that's for real, huh? – I don't think it helps solve the great challenges we face. And the pension fund wasn't done to pay the current expense, it wasn't done for that, was it? So, there has been a misuse and this will also have consequences, yes; and it will require other complex measures, yes, and better than facing them. You and everyone else, and we too, and in this attempt to confront them – in this attempt to confront them – always try to have the best possible tools. And this is what we always try to explain here, in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, in the Congress of Deputies when we have occasion or in the European Parliament, even though it seemed to you that the European Parliament yesterday was not the European Parliament precisely because we were ourselves. So, listen, whether we are ourselves as if we are not ourselves, the European Parliament is the European Parliament, even though you know it hard. It's here. Thanks a lot, huh? , all the way, to everyone, as always.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.203.0	Thank you very much, Mr Junqueras. [[Asking the Government about prison equipment in Barcelona]] [[300-00120/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on prison equipment in Barcelona, presented by the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group. To expose it, has the word Lord Gerard Gómez del Moral.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.204.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, today we are here to talk about prison equipment, I was now announced by the president, but they also have an important agreement, of the signature of an agreement with the Barcelona Assembly to reorder and replan prison equipment to the city of Barcelona. I would like to begin, in a way, by talking about the importance of the Model for the city of Barcelona; to talk, say, about the historical trajectory of this prison equipment and what sense of doubt has marked many episodes of the social, political life of this country. A dark history of Barcelona, a diagonal underground, diguessim, that we could trace from the Camp de la Bota, passing through the prefecture of Via Laietana, arrive to the Model, to play from the current station of Sants. A dark diagonal, I say, isn't it? , full of sad, unjust stories, of disgrace, of tears, of pains, of repression..., in short, of how this story and this country that we are finally explain and that, despite everything, we have continued to push forward. A social and political story that sensed doubt, that of the Model Prison, was connected to the Rosa de Foc, was connected to the Tràgica Week, it was connected to the Caputxinada, it was connected to the Assembly of Catalonia, that, by the way, just after the President's date there is a square that in all the visits she is making to the Parliament explains what it was, and that she has, after all, also related to the Model because when the members of the Assembly of Catalonia were held, a good part of which ended up being engaged to the Model. Or the facts of Palau, to talk about so many things that have marked the country's recent history and that have ended up, discordantly, in this prison center. Or people absolutely... say, referents for many of us in many areas, right? We could talk about Ferrer and Gardia, Salvador Seguí, Francesc Layret, Guti, Puig and Antich, Isidre Molas, Jordi Carbonell, many people who have suffered from repression, who have suffered from the harshness and cruelty of repression in this country and who have had to pass days, despite the fact that their cries were of freedom, locked and locked in this prison center. But once we've had a little history, I think we need to look at the future and we need to look forward, so, these uses we also want for the Model and that the people that we are from this city, that we're from Barcelona, we've been longing for many years. In fact, the Model, when it was planned... in fact, the first stone, right? It was 1888 – it was precisely planned because the conditions of the interns and of the people who, unfortunately, therefore, were to be in prison, were infamous; of the prisons of Raval, of Ciutat Vella, and that, therefore, do not complete the standards that theoretically were intended for the imprisoned population. This was the one that led us to think of a larger, more conditioned centre that we could give, so the conditions that it was understood that the prison population in this country is worth it. A few years passed and until 1904 it was not inaugurated, but the original idea of making this arrest was precisely this: it was to improve the living conditions of prisoners. So today more than a hundred years have passed, the prison is still feeling the same; the building, with all the efforts that have been made, because they have done so much to condition it and to improve its conditions..., is still feeling the same as then, and more – and more – this prison is the only day today that you still have overwork. Not as far as the length of history is concerned, because, if I'm not mistaken, there have been more than twelve thousand, thirteen thousand prisoners, just the years after the Civil War, the 39th, the 40th. Today it is not so, fortunately, but it is still above its capacity, while the others..., there is no other prison system, prison centers in Catalonia, which exceeds 80_per_cent, and the Model we are currently talking about 116_per_cent. Therefore, when we talk about the Model and when we talk about reordering the prison system in the city of Barcelona, we talk about the quality of the inmates as well; we talk about the living conditions above all so that we can offer, therefore, the dignity that the people there deserve, and also, therefore, the conditions that the same buildings have and in which the Generality, the Department of Justice and the workers who work there must have. Therefore, we must look to the future. And, therefore, from this Member and from the parliamentary group to which I represent, the truth is that we feel very happy and proud that the Council has pushed this agreement with the Barcelona Assembly; this collaboration between the two institutions is essential, because this, in fact, can reach the trigger, the outcome that we all want. Because this is a sustained – sustained – fight at the age of one. The Association of Veíns, in the case of the Model, of the Esquerra de l'Eixample – which, of course, I greet its president who today, therefore, accompanies us from the gallery of guests–, doors decades– decades– claiming to be able to put the Model at the disposal of, say, the ages. Venal entities, cultural entities, many people have asked once for all to be able to be this equipment. But they are not the first, surely, because the 1970s already demanded that he then be a prosecutor to the Court, Joan Antoni Samaranch, to the Minister of Justice ; the 1970s, demanded that conditions were not the best and that he should work to modify and remove from the middle of the city the Born market – which is already in the Franca Zone a few years ago–, the escort and the prison Model, which is the only equipment that follows exactly in the same place where he was planning before the Universal Exhibition of 1888. Therefore, this repeated demand for decades is time to solve it once and for all. Not for a whim, but because there is also a social need around it, and that's why it's important to work continuously and together with the Barcelona Assembly. It is necessary to put equipment in a district such as the Eixample and the Eixample Left, which has been demanding for so many years: educational, necessary equipment; equipment for large, necessary people; young couples, also necessary, in this neighborhood and in this district; or a polysport, which is actually also necessary. And not only for the Model, which is often the most mediated or more, say, mediated, but also for the Trinity. Because this reposition gives opportunities to a bar, such as the Trinity, which has been so many and so many years, as many as the Model, which claims to be able to build social housing. We live there, but also the relocations that have been claimed for so many years and that are essential to be able to sedate the city, to be able to continue to advance in this Barcelona that we want to build, and that it is necessary for all administrations to work together in order to return to these spaces that have been closed in the coming and coming and, therefore, to be able to build a more balanced city. Therefore, today, we, and looking to the future, as I said, are happy and hopeful, and we are hopeful because, finally, looking back, it is true that for many years we have already pursued it, not since 1970, but it had also advanced on other occasions in this sense, and at the moment, there were no results. Prisoner Model cheated on her seventeen years, didn't she? Since it was laid the first stone to which it was inaugurated, 1904. For the time being we are carrying seven years from the first agreement, the year 2001, the very same ones that have been trigated from the first stone to inaugurate the prison center, and we hope that they will not pass any more. Let's hope that, as in your day it cost seven years, now, this 2017, we can also find a solution, right? And, therefore, we, counsel, what we would ask you and what we want to do, therefore, with this inquiry to the Government and, in this case, to their department, is that you work because this tank is done as soon as possible. It's a necessity for the living and living, it's a need for the city to be able to move forward in this aspect and, therefore, we want to ask you to do this. It is also important that it is done with the maximum consensus and work shared with the associations of the veins, with the workers and workers of the prison centers, with the Barcelona Assembly. It is necessary to weave agreements, complicitys and, therefore, work all folds, because the Model lock is certainly one of the issues that generates the most consensus. Everyone knows it's time to lock up. Everyone knows that this has to happen sooner than later, because it is necessary for the city but also for the prison system. Therefore, it is important that we do this work with all the agents, that there is no loss of jobs and that, therefore, we can reach a good agreement with everyone: with us, I insist, with the assembly, with the institutions, with the workers. And also begin to push, as so many times have been said, these two equipments that must go, also, to the Free Zone, the open center and the prison center, and, therefore, that also the department is set in march, of one band, effectively, to close the Model, and, of other band, obviously, to continue to work in being able to rethink this system, that not only passes through the fence, but also, to build these two equipments. Therefore, these are our requests, counselor, and already entry, also, to congratulate you on this agreement that has been achieved, that we hope that once and for all, now, it will be improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.205.0	Thank you, Mr. Moral Gomez. Reply by Mr. Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.206.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. The honourable Member, first of all, I thank him for the inquiry, the inquiry to bring to this plenary a question that is important and that it is obvious that the experience in this very Parliament of multiple debates that have been held in relation to the future of prison equipment, which, in short, demonstrates the complexity of this matter. A question which has many elements to value and which is, precisely, and also taking advantage of the experience of all these years, which, reached this point, give us the conditions so that we can assess in certain circumstances that allow it, which must be the future of prison equipment in the city of Barcelona. And I also take this opportunity to thank the people of the public who accompany us, both the representatives of the workers and the representatives of the association of vehicles. Certainly – and you thought so – this is an object that goes from the moon, that affects what has to happen to the Old Trinity, that affects what has to happen to the Model, and that is an object that goes from the moon, that has been worked for all governments, for all municipal governments, for all governments of the Generality. Everyone has had the intention of giving a definitive solution to these equipments. As has been the case for the vehicular struggle of the associations of the veins, of many entities and organizations of the joint city of Barcelona, and also of the Association of Veyens of the Left of the Eixample in a very specific way, and here I believe that I also need to recognize the work that for many years the deputy Lluís Rabell and for many years the president of the association of the veins, has done in defense of this object in whole of the joint city and mainly in whole of the Veyens of the Eixample. With the Barcelona Assembly we have been working for eight months very intensively with the aim of giving shape to an agreement that clearly sets out the terms in which it must be possible to order the prison equipment to the city of Barcelona and affect the combination of prison equipment. Let's talk about Trinitat Vella, talk about the Model and talk about Wad-Ras. And together we were able to overcome the many obstacles that led to the signature of this convenient, a signature that was produced by the 10th generation passed with the mayor, the vice president of the government and myself, in which they fixed the terms on which this reordering is to be produced, establishing the ceasing of the solars to the Franc Zone where these two prison equipments are to be built: the open center that is to replace the prison of the Trinitat Vella and the prison center that is to replace the prison Model. And this is, of course, clearly setting out the terms in which these equipments that are obsolete in the morning and in some areas are depreciated, need to be renovated. At Trinitat Vella, this same February and end of the signed agreement, will formalize the purchase script with the Barcelona City Council. The Government of the Generality, also during the month of February, will approve the multi-annual financing agreement to allow the construction of this open centre and will therefore be responsible for the drafting of the construction project. In relation to the prison centre of the Model, it is appropriate to establish that the date of confinement must take into account the following criteria: take into account the construction of another prison centre in the Free Zone or – and you expressly say the agreement with the Barcelona Assembly – evaluate, study the conditions of the prison system in order to allow this advance. And it is precisely with this compromise that the Department of Justice is doing: to study the conditions of the prison system to, if possible, anticipate this confinement. And to this study and this assessment we have been compromised because it is our responsibility to give clear answers and horizons, to give a response in the month of fever, in a few weeks, and therefore to know exactly what the future of prison centers should be. It is going to build a prison centre in the Free Zone, more than the advertised open centre, because it is obvious that it will continue to renew the set of equipment of the prison system and today the Model is the oldest centre, but the day that the Model ceases to be will not have others that will be the oldest centers and, therefore, a constant reversal in the renovation of these equipments. And in relation to the prison centre that will accompany the open centre to the Free Zone, the definition of the functional plan has already been taken care of and the project will be taken over to redact it and continue all the procedures to complete its construction. The prison system, of course, presents in the current situation certain circumstances that we cannot avoid: the prison system's joint today has 10,700 places for interns and is using 7,100, which explains that today, 24 genera, we have 3,500 places that, fortunately, are not being used, and this represents that the occupation in the prison centres of the Catalan system's joint is 67_percent. In other words, today we have the equivalent of four prison centers which, if we imagine that the Model is not open, are three; we would have the equivalent, in available places, to which today represents the prison center of Mas d'Enric, in Tarragona; the center of Ponent and the prison center of Figueres. Therefore, it is obvious that there are conditions to study, with this availability of places, which is the conjunction of the prison system, which are their needs and potential. Concrete examples, some of which you mentioned: Tarragona is at 30_per_cent; Lleida, Ponent, is at 50_per_cent of occupation; Lledoners is below 60_per_cent, or the largest center we have in Catalonia, Brians 2, is around 60_per_cent– 60 and just a few percent. Therefore, with these data, it would be irresponsible, from the point of view of public management, not to analyze all the scenes and, therefore, this is the compromise that we have before us, and the compromise that I reiterate today is that during the month of fever we will give a clear answer of which is the future of each of the centers. Because it's obvious that locking the Model has some effects and not locking it has another. A prison with more than a hundred and twelve years in operation, with the time to run if, seven, eight, new or ten years more clearly requires other decisions that obviously have an economic impact, and we need to value all and each of the consequences. Therefore, all the complex decision has positive elements and elements that may not be so good, and what corresponds is to put all these elements in a balance and make a decision and know with full clarity and with objective giving the reasons for one decision or another. And I want to make one thing very clear that I have already had the opportunity to make clear in the Justice Commission last week and in all my interventions: if at last the Justice Department decides to shut down the Model prison, not even a place of work, they will keep all and every place of work, keep staff working, keep staff involved, keep staff serving today at the Model prison or at any other centre. And I want to make this perfectly clear. I have said it in public, I solemnly say it in this chamber, it will be recorded in the record, but it is also an absolutely clear decision that, if this is ultimately produced in these terms, we will want to leave it perfectly established by writing and granted to the workers' representatives. Because our obsession is to work rigorously and work with dialy. This same morning I had the opportunity to explain the agreement with the representatives of the unions in the field of the Administration of Justice, an area in which it did not associate with each other for years. Therefore, it is obvious that we want to talk to everyone and we want to share, we want to talk and we are talking, we have never stopped talking to the representatives of the workers, as well as the questions that affect the prison services in the city of Barcelona. Meetings have taken place, meetings are held and meetings will continue to be held, and in the same way as we speak to workers' representatives, to whom we obviously fully understand their legitimate requests, we also need to put in relation to what many other collectivities are asking of us in the city and, therefore, we are listening and speaking and we are agreeing, I am not convinced, with workers' representatives as, if so, we are listening, we are talking and we are agreeing with the representatives in the city and with all the entities that we are asking for a decision to return to this area in Barcelona. You have legitimately put forward some examples: the Entente school claims to be able to have a definitive location and this also forms part of our obligation, to be able to listen to this demand, as with many other examples that, as you have already mentioned, I will not be the one to widen it. Therefore, our way of working is to provide all the information, to put data, to run away from topics, to run away from preconceived ideas that may not exactly respond to the description of reality, to talk to everyone and ultimately to make decisions, to make decisions that generate the maximum possible consensus and ultimately serve the general interest. This is the compromise we take in all the areas of our management, and I am convinced that they are also capable of doing it and doing it for the sake of the internals, for the sake of the workers and for the sake of the joint citizens of Barcelona and the joint citizens of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.207.0	Thank you, Counselor. The word has the deputy Lord Gomez of the Moral. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. He doesn't use his screw. [[Question to the Government on trilingual teaching]] [[300-00117/11]] [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.208.0	I always arrive at the hour, Madam President. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.209.0	I know – I know. [[The president laughs.]] I know. You've got the word, Mrs. Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.210.0	Good afternoon, ma'am. MEPs, MEPs who still resist this hour, « Spain, the worst English-speaking country in the European Union. This is a generation 12 headline and it's about bad news, very bad news, and what this news does is pick up the Cambridge Monitor barometer and, according to this barometer, Spain is the worst country. Yes, Spain is the worst country in all nations participating in the survey. I suppose you will tell me that Madrid and Catalonia are the autonomous communities best located in Spain, but we would agree that being the best located in the country with the worst results does not leave much space for cophoism. I hope you're not proud of this; we're not proud of it and we're not in line with these results. We also have the latest CIS barometer, according to which 60 percent of Spaniards recognize that they don't speak or write or read in English. Do you think this is what the Catalan parents and mothers want for their children? I'll answer it myself: no. 95_percent of the population considers it important or important enough to know a foreign language. And, if you know of families that have children, you don't even get to half those who think their children are getting a good education in languages at school, and 33 percent of families take their children to English classes or have a private teacher. And we have another very negative headline; this is from La Vanguardia, of the September: "Schools: Suspended in English. This article takes back the words of Dr. Cristina Escobar, who is a professor at the Faculty of Education Sciences, and is surely one of the people who knows the most about English teaching in Catalonia. And I know that because I was lucky, I was privileged to be able to work and to investigate with her the degree of elementary education in English that is done at the Autonomous University, where I gave the assignment of culture. Well, Dr. Escobar says, and I quote: "The Catalan school does not guarantee the level of English enough to be on the competitive side. And he won't do it until the teachers speak well the idiom and have the skills to teach it. Fi of the date. I suppose she knows these statements and she also knows Dr. Escobar, because she is the co-author of a report on the foreign language training of the faculty in which various faculties of education participated, but also the Department of Education. And this report concludes with an idea that is very obvious and that I will quote: "To ensure a good level of English, teachers must have a good level beforehand. And not just the specialist in English, but all the generalist teachers who would give major importance to the role of languages in the school center. Fi of the date. They seem, as I said, to be quite obvious, and they contrast vividly with their words when they ensure that the pupils of the Catalan schools come up with a good level of English. Anyone who is dedicated to teaching or who has children knows that this is wrong. Why are we in this situation? I think there are two motius phonamentals. First of all, because class rates are too high. No one would point to an English academy that told him that he has thirty students as companions. If you have more than twelve, don't report to this academy. Well, that's what we have in the classroom here in Catalonia. And second of all, and in line with what Dr. Escobar says, we don't have enough qualified faculty to donate non-linguistic materials to English. When most of the current teacher's contract was made, no English knowledge was required, and after the continuing training was not done well. An inn attempt was made a day during the tripartite, but when my friend, Mrs Rigau, arrived at the Teaching Council, she ended up with the measures that had begun to implement the tripartite. We believe that it is essential to train the teacher well, because it is not possible to ask for such a great effort, as it is to give a non-linguistic subject in English, without all the support and support needed. But we do not just stand in the way of criticism, we also make proposals. And for this reason, we propose to create the English training office for the teacher in the Department of Economics and History. I know he does not like this proposal, because he told me in his appearance, but we will continue to struggle to make this happen. Now I'm going to ask him some very concrete questions and I hope that then I will also answer it very concretely. The first is what he thinks he's doing to improve the English teacher's formation. Then how many clearly face-to-face courses – I insist, clearly face-to-face – do they offer? Third: how many of these face-to-face courses are in English learning and how many are in AICLE? And, finally, how many English speaking countries do they have programs for the faculty? On the other hand, we already know that you, in order not to do what you need to do, respect English learning, say that the domain of this language is presupposed to finish university studies, but anyone who has studied or given classes to the university knows that this is not true. Actually, theoretically, at the end of the baccalaureate the students have a B2 level of English, but the reality is that the majority of the students they have is an A2 level. Moreover, Autonome is tested to see what is the English level of students when they enter and only 33_per_cent have a B2 level. On the other hand, in Catalonia, the Bretxa between students from disadvantaged and disadvantaged classes for which it makes the knowledge of foreign languages is very great. At the tests of basic skills of his own department, at a quarter of the ESO, of the past course, students in favored barrels drew a middle of 8 in English, while students in disadvantageous barrels drew a middle of 5.7. This is an obvious demonstration of the lack of fairness of the Catalan school. And why is this happening? So, according to Dr. Escobar, because the level of English that is given to the schools is insufficient but families with more resources pay extra-school classes or language states or trips to the foreigner for their children. Dr. Escobar's findings also coincided with the CIS barometer we have commented on. We cannot accept that it is about the success model of the Catalan school while there are a few more than two points between the students of favored and disadvantaged barrels, and while the students do not reach the university with a B2 level. In order to improve this situation it is necessary to train teachers, and that is why economic resources are called for, but also for a while. We, you know, believe that English has to be a language vehicle to every school in order to get a good mastery of all the students. But this is not the only way to improve the English level of our students. There is another proposal, which is very interesting and very annoying, which is that of the conversation assistants. One more time, we find that Catalan students, according to where they were born, have more or less opportunities to have a good level of English. The Ministry of Education offers 1,500 helpers to all of Spain, but we only have two here in Catalonia. And we'd like to know, Counselor, why we have in Catalonia such a low amount of this public resource. In addition, this cipher is very short if we compare it to the more or less three hundred conversation aids contracted to the concerted schools. Can you explain to us the reason for this four-and-a-half-cent lag? Because it is obvious that, if it is to be done, it can be done from the public sector; it is a question of political will. In fact, autonomous communities such as La Rioja and Navarra already do. And we have a very proper case here, which is the Hospital of the Llobregat, where together it offers to all public centers and arranged to have conversation assistants. This proposal was a success and came around thirteen auxiliaries that are about three hours a week, at ESO quarter, to strengthen the student's oral skills and to provide a speech and grammar correction model in an angled language. It is obvious that these assistants have a dynamic role in the classroom and can also provide a motivation to know the country of origin from which they come, in addition to helping the teacher in coordination and language support tasks. In fact, now the Castellar del Vallès Assembly is also setting aside an initiative similar to this one of the Hospitallet. So, we want to know why the rest of the students in Catalonia can't have conversation assistants like the students of the Hospital or the Concerted Schools and why their department doesn't make a clear and determined bet to improve the teaching and learning of English at the Catalan Schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.211.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sierra. Next, has the word Ms. Meritxell Ruiz, Education Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.212.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, as this is not the first time we talk about learning and English in our country, I think you have always heard me say that we need to improve English learning in Catalonia; I always say: "We have improved, but obviously we need to improve it. Therefore, on all those occasions that we have had occasion to speak, I have always recognized that we have clearly improved, but in learning English we need to improve, among other things, because the future is already changing now as long as, obviously, if we want to have those linguistic and professional skills of our students, we need to know not only how to improve the learning of languages, but also how to improve the learning of linguistic competence. And, therefore, in this context of change, in this context of new needs, the domain of various..., languages, especially English, because it is the most widely used foreign language, but not only English, but others; its use, not only learning communication, academic use, professional use, is not only necessary but essential. And in this will to create multilingual citizens is what we're working on. March of this year we had the opportunity to do so, so we had a committee appearance, which they also asked for, explaining everything we're doing. But, I insist, we share what we need to improve; what we do not share are statements that you have even sometimes done here yourself, to say: "Listen, our Catalan education system is a disaster. No, it's not a disaster; it's good and it has to get better, and as long as it does. And I think we can come to terms with this process of improvement. Miri, resources to the system, there's a lot of them. Then, in any case, if you want, because you've done a little bit of that, we'll talk about the model. But he made reference to saying: "Listen, we need not just English specialists to know languages but other teachers. So, look, that's why there are structural places with a linguistic profile. It is to say, when you come out of the decree of plants, that it is possible to profile places, when you come out of the decree of autonomy and that unfortunately you question, it is precisely for this, to consolidate these programs, because they are usually incorporated into the centers, as you say, it is essential that the teachers know English, but it is also essential that the centers can adapt the plants to the object of their educational projects. This is why in the design of teaching structural places with a linguistic profile, which means teachers with training and experience in teaching in foreign language contents, it is honestly an important step to ensure this better in foreign language and also to donate to plants. You've been very critical of this, and it's a very positive tool for our centers. Miri, profiles of places with..., places with linguistic profile in course 14-15 in English, 400; profiles of places in course 15-16, past, 538. Therefore, our centres are improving in this offer of English language profiles. I can also say it in French, because we also have them. Here, too, I'd like you to support us. When they say that the plant decree only serves because someone triages their friends, that's not true. The decree of plants serves, for example, that if the educational project of a center decides that part of a matter is done in English, what is logical is that the substitute or the person who can occupy..., the interest or the person who can occupy this square knows English, because, if he does not know English, that part of the project cannot be served. And if somewhere that's felt even more in the most complex centers, where profiling places is a tool that's giving them, so much ability to improve many of their aspects. He's also made a point of the teacher's formation. It is well known that there is an important part of teacher training in Parliament's assumptions: 3_million euros are also destined for the better of languages. We also hope that they can give us support because for the optimal implementation of this multilingual model that we are implementing, not now, it is already three courses, at our schools, it is essential to rethink also the teaching and learning strategies of the languages, and therefore, as you have said, the formation of the teacher, both the initial and the permanent. With the initial you will also know that we are talking to universities to see what must be the level of English or foreign language that future aspiring teachers must have. And here they do play a special role and they're playing our universities. For what it does to training, it means that language training is one of the priorities of our department. And you asked me: "What is the structure of this offer? So in three finalities. First, the methodological and linguistic update of the specialist foreign language teacher and officials giving a special importance to training related to new competence curricula, which also knows that it is one, therefore, of the measures that the former councillor has already begun; the competence learning. In the last five courses we have formats more than 4,900 teachers. The following finality, the linguistic formation of the non-specialist teacher; the one you said, not just that of foreign language but of another. And we fully agree with the objective that it is possible to use a foreign language in a context that is different from that of a foreign language. In the case of the English courses, a total of 1,056 teachers have reached the level of B2, 349 the level of C1, in these later courses, and the forecast is that for this course there are 175 at the level of B2 and 280 at the level of C1. They also reserve places, as you know, for official language schools, for German, French and Italian languages, addresses to the teacher in centres where these languages form part of their project, but also in Arabic, Russian and Chinese addresses to the teacher in centres with a student presence that has this language as the first language. The third is the teacher's ability to impart non-linguistic contents in a foreign language, the AICLE, as you have already called it, or in the language of schooling for students who do not have it as their first language, in order to consolidate and expand these teachings. In this case, I think it is necessary to highlight the formative effort that has developed in this sense the department for which it does for this third purpose; mostly I also have to say that in English. The name of the teacher formed in these last five courses has been 3,155. To get an idea of the size that CLIL currently has, it must be stated that the 11-12 course was formed by noranta-seven teachers and that the prediction is that this course is formin 1,110 teachers. It is important to note that the centres with a project related to foreign languages, the Integrated Language Platform and the Plurilinguism Experiment Group, have been given priority at the time of this formation. And finally, very recently, a line of training has been initiated for the teacher of all languages with the objective of promoting efficiency in the planning of linguistic and communicative learning, and cross-sectional, methodological and didactic treatment of different languages through methodologies such as inter-comprehension or linguistic transfer, with the objective that coordination and educational consensus can unify criteria, terminology, analysis sequences and avoid, too, unnecessary repetitions reducing interference and promoting the strategic transfer of learning between different languages. So, it's been working since the Teaching Department for years, but, as you might say, the changes aren't today's. Therefore, we have empowered this line of improvement in the learning of English or other foreign languages between our faculty to ensure that we can continue to implement a non-linguistic subject, or that from a non-linguistic subject it is done in English. You have to know that here you give them the last few years, they don't stop growing. That is to say, in this country we want..., almost around 60_percent of our educational centers that are totally or partially making a subject in another language, and a 54,4_percent do it in English. So it's obvious that we need to get better, but I honestly believe that we're equipped with tools because, in a few years' time, we really can do a lot more language learning. I was wondering about other projects. We also have the management of European programs, Erasmus and eTwinning. In these past seven years there have been more than 7,000 students, more than 5,730 teachers, more than 506 projects. Erasmus+: in Catalonia, 2015 was awarded a total of twenty-i-four projects in KA1 and fifty-eight in KA2 mode. Additional resources. You were also talking about talking help programs. It is framed in a set of actions intended to give support to those educational centres that develop a project for the management of foreign language curricula. And this aide, as well as adeja, gives support to language teachers to strengthen language practice. At this point, until 2015, there are 100_six language assistants we have had. But we also have the program of linguistic volunteering. We also have collaboration with other entities in the area, the mSchools program, the Connect-US, the Anglés The Fonix inter-school competition and many other measures that we can explain later. But know that we are working, that we need to improve, that we share, and that we hope to find, therefore, those supports in those measures that we believe are important, such as teacher training, job profiling, or the increase in training assumptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.213.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word "Mrs. Sierra."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.214.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselor, I have never said that the education system is a disaster, among other things because it would be throwing stones at my own roof. "Disaster, I didn't say so. Then I asked him some very concrete questions that you didn't answer. He's given me all the data on things that have already been done, and I was asking him about things they're thinking about doing. Of the courses he gave, I asked him how many are clearly present, because I've been looking at the department's website and, of what he said, one is semi-presential and the rest are telematics. So, I want to know for clearly face-to-face courses. And of these, well, he's already commented a little bit on those who are in English and AICLE, but I want to know about clearly face-to-face, not telematics or semi-presences. He hasn't answered me how many years he's scheduled for teaching. He also did not answer me why there are only two ministerial assistants, when they don't offer 1,500 for all of Spain, and it is obvious that they were nearing us more than two. And why do we have to serve two or two, from this public resource, but the concerted schools have been contracted around three hundred, well their organizations, AMPAs, etc. And I'd like to know why not all the students in Catalonia can have this resource that I find very good. Then, the plant decree knows that there are many problems, that it has many criticisms, and what we do is to support the demands of the educational community. Then, from the data I've donated before, there's a data that I'm very curious about. Thirty-three percent of families pay out-of-school English classes to their children. Do you know how many students come to college with a B2 level? Exactly a 33_per_cent. It seems, therefore, that Dr. Escobar and the perception that the families have in this barometer of the CIS, which we have spoken before, is correct when they consider that the level that is given to the schools is insufficient and that a strengthening school, because it coincides the number of people who make non-school English with those who arrive with a level of B2 to the Autonomous... – well, I say the Autonomous because it is the university that I know that this proves. That I finish batting and get to college with a B2 only a 33_per_cent, is a figure that we cannot accept from the side of the way and that is not equivalent to what is happening to the countries of the rest of Europe. Another fact that I also think is related to what we just said is that the students of the rich barrels have more than two points of difference compared to the most disadvantaged barrels. As much as I'm talking about the success model of the Catalan school... when there's a difference of more than two points between barrels, depending on the socioeconomic situation, we can't talk about the success model of the ways. Why? Because the social class predisposes academic performance and because the majority, we have already said, do not get to university with a B2 level, as it does pass to countries around us. And we're talking about those who get to college; imagine that it's the same thing that proves to everyone who finishes batting or who finishes a quarter of ESO, at which level we'd be. Clearly, we do not want the only ones who have a good level of English to follow those that their parents can pay out-of-school classes or those who can go to caring schools, such as the children of the presidents of the Generalitat; schools that certainly serve trilingualism, which you deny public schools as advertising claims. We think that English cannot be the privilege of some, as it is now – the figures are very obvious – but it must be a right for all students, who vote for their parents, because it is not an ideological question, it is a question of social justice. We want all children and Catalan children to be born where they were born, to have the same opportunities, which is not happening right now. And that's why we need more reduced ratios to English classes, which you haven't talked about; well-trained teacher to teach non-linguistics and conversation aids. Because English is not the future, English is the present, and how better our young people's formation will tend to find a good job. It is obvious that you are not willing to make the English language become a vehicle for all the schools in Catalonia, but we do, you know, and we will present a motion, to deal with all these aspects, with the idea of improving the formation of the English language. Because we are with 95 percent of families who want a good level of English for their children and with young people who need good public education. Because the English cannot continue to feel the privilege of some; the English must be a right of everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.215.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. It has the word Ms. Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.216.0	Now I'll start with what I haven't found so mace, let me just stare at it. [[The councilwoman's laughing.]] It seemed to me that he said, "Listen to me, it's because of what the parents vote..., you see that you don't share the centers, because you have made the expression useful: "You say that depending on what they vote, the centers... Well, I'll go over it, because I've stayed a little..., I'll go over it, because I've been a little scared. If it's not like that, I'll get over it. Miri, I'll start with what's got the most content. Listen to me, you've talked a lot about fairness and we agree, but it's just what we say is that we're not applying resources linearly, but that all the extra pressure we've prioritized primarily in those centers that need it most. So you have to agree to donate more resources to where you need it most, which is what we're doing, which is what comes out of the assumptions. Today, you were talking about relationships, you were talking about teaching, you were talking about fairness – we've stuck a principle of agreement with the unions in which, apart from the school hour, which was a better condition, we've made a bet to improve educational care, that is, to put more resources, to put more teachers in the centers to do this. We sincerely expect their support, too, because it is an important measure that we have agreed with the unions. What do you mean? That we're working for equity. What we don't want is to give everyone the same linearly, because not everyone, so he needs the same. If you have the opportunity to look at the PISA report, if you have the opportunity to look at the basic skills, you will see that for the first time the past course was achieved the score of 70 in angular competence, which had never sunk. Does that mean we're satisfied? No, no, I've always said that. What we are satisfied with is that we have improved. What are we going to do better? Obviously. But what we can't do is say that we have a disastrous level, when for the first time we have sunk the level of 70, even in English. The second aspect. If you have the opportunity to look at the data for what you do for equity, you will see that there the most has improved, precisely, it is in the lower fringes, in what you are so interested and so are we. We cannot have a country of various speeds, we want to give more to what needs more. And what the evidence is showing is that in these past years just the lower fringes are the best. You're referring to other countries... – like the linguist, we can't get into the debate right now, but we can get into the debate –, which can't be that in Catalonia, and that – and in Spain, too – weighs heavily on us, the only place to contact English is when you go to school. That's why other countries have a much higher domain than English, because they hear it everywhere. That's to say, when they hear the English speaking, at home they hear the English speaking, at the bus they hear the English speaking... that doesn't happen here. That's why we have this difference with other countries, we're conscious. And that's why we're also working with entities around it. It can't be that the only place our students are in contact with English is school, because that means we'll have a far better advantage than others. Obviously, this is getting out of school and we're trying to put more resources where more is needed. You were talking about concrete measures: the auxiliaries are one, yes; but I put them on the table all that we have been doing for years to improve the learning of English. First of all, from our teachers, if we don't have well-formed teachers, what we can't do is improve the learning of languages, and we're working on this. You are a teacher, you know that this is not achieved in a course. We are offering courses, we are offering training, and each time we have more centers than non-linguistic materials in another language. One of the aspects that many times poses on the table..., I have no problem – here I have no data, but – in giving them the face theme... Miri, the importance of formation is not whether it is face or not face people, it is whether that formation is useful for the one who asks it. Listen to me, it's changed a lot, the world. And today technologies allow a whole series of possibilities that they didn't allow before. You can now feel perfectly English from different parts of the world from a programmer who explains to you how a word is pronounced, and surely you can feel it many times at home than a teacher once told you. Therefore, we do not tank ourselves so much in whether the formation is in-person or not in-person, if we do not focus on itself that formation, whether it is in-person or not, it is really useful to improve, so, in this case, the linguistic skills of our teachers. And to finish, just tell him: I thank him for doing, therefore, an inquiry for the better part of the English, because here he will find us. Surely what we would not share is the model, which was not the subject of debate today, but I am convinced that if you are so concerned, you will be able to value the presuppositional effort we have made, the effort we have just made with the unions, the effort we are making to give more resources to the centres with the greatest complexity, and, therefore, work to improve fairness and also to improve the level, not only of English, but of the other skills, of our student. Thank you, honourable Member; thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-25-2801.217.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine.
