ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-08-25-4101.1.0	The session begins. Good morning to all of you. [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the condemnation of the Barcelona and Cambrils storms of August 17]] [[401-00032/11]] Today we celebrate a specific plethora and solemnly that so much good has never had to be celebrated, a plethora to condemn the Barcelona and Cambrils storms of the 17th August, from record to victims and in favor of the stick. The Parliament, a reflection of the people of Catalonia, plural and diverse, joins and joins in the pain of victims and their families, and is conjured to work harder than ever, to prevent events such as events from happening again. If you will allow me, before reading the declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia, I would like to greet the authorities that are accompanying us today: the mayor of Barcelona and mayors of other municipalities, general councils, representatives and members of the security units, firefighters and emergency services; thanks for being here with us. We will now proceed to the reading of the statement. « Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia to condemn the storms of Barcelona and Cambrils of August 17. The Parliament of Catalonia unanimously condemned the brutal eating habits in Barcelona and Cambrils on August 17. Parliament expresses its condolences to the victims of death and shows all its support for friends and family, and thus wishes to express the desire that the wounded can recover quickly and effectively from the physical and psychological consequences of the storms. The pain caused by these terrorist actions of extreme violence has affected all Catalonia. The Parliament, however, wants to value the response given by the Catalan society. In the face of a situation of extreme gravity, the country's institutions and public services have acted in an exemplary way. It should be noted, in this sense, the excellent task of emergency and medical services, and also that of security. The effectiveness of police action has made it possible to control with great speed the threat posed by the authors of the attacks, and the information and official communications made available to the institutions and public services have offered to the citizenry the necessary serenity in such a traumatic context. The Parliament wishes to highlight in a special way the civic reaction of the Catalan society, which from the first moment on showed an immense spirit of solidarity, and was able to respond mostly with the maturity necessary to know how to distinguish between the spurious use of religions as a source of violent extremism and the peaceful coexistence of the various religious identities present in Catalonia. The ultimate ultimate objective of terrorists is to generate and hate the society against which they tempt and annihilate essential values such as freedom or respect for difference. That is why the calm, solid and peaceful response that Catalan society has given in advance is so important: the response of a democratically mature and cohesive society around plurality and freedom. Parliament calls on us to continue working for democracy and social cohesion in our country. Plurality can only be defended from democracy, and democracy is the guarantee of living in a plural and diverse and, at the same time, cohesive society. The Parliament appreciates all the international exhibitions of rebade solidarity. It must be borne in mind that Barcelona and Cambrils' tempts attach themselves to what has happened in the past few years to other cities of the world, in a way that is especially bloody and constant in conflict zones and in countries of extreme poverty. In this sense, the Parliament confirms its commitment to the culture of the pau, collected in the State, reiterated in various institutional declarations and used, among other laws, for the Law on the Promotion of the Pau. This compromise forces us to deepen into values such as tolerance and dialogue, to make a task of preventing violent extremism and to actively promote a culture of pau and non-violence. A culture of pau that has to bet on the resolution of armed conflicts and the overcoming of situations of injustice. At the same time, Parliament is committed to working comprehensively in different spheres to improve the effectiveness in preventing radicalisation and fighting terrorism. Thus, Parliament is committed to continuing to work permanently to ensure the individual and collective rights and freedoms that define our democracy. Because solidarity, freedom and peaceful coexistence in diversity are the defeat of terrorism. Palau del Parlament, August 25, 2017. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Then we'll do the minute of silence. [[In the chamber, dempeus, serve a minute of silence.]] We give up the minute of silence. Thank you all very much. And the session goes up.
