ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.1.0	The session begins. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Very good morning to all of you. Before I enter the order of the day, I must inform you that, unfortunately, the late end of the week a woman died to Salou, as a result of male violence. According to the official data of the Department of Interior and the Catalan Institute of Donations, it is the fourth death victim of the year for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and express my most sincere condolences to your family members. So, I repeat Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women. The list of questions to answer is included in the Ple folder. According to Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning, as the first point of the order of the day. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the non-complaint by the Government of the State of the money of the bank bailout]] [[317-00167/11]] And, as announced at the last meeting of the Board of Spokesmen, we will begin this point with the questions to the President of the Generality. The first question, about the political and social situation, is the formula of Mr Carles Riera, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.2.0	President..., good morning, President. Go ahead, at these moments, our greatest concern for the fevers and failings that we, frankly, are watching in the organizational process of the reference and for the news that, on this issue they are coming out that, I insist, generate the greatest concern for us that they may indicate, perhaps, a certain lack of initiative, firmness and determination of the Government on this issue. Also, this is not the only issue that concerns us and, therefore, today's question about another issue, for us, too, is of the utmost importance. President, last week we learned that the Spanish State considers 78_percent of public capital contributed to the rescue of the Spanish bank in the proposed financial crisis to be irrecoverable. Sometimes, among other background data, we also knew, for example, that the Spanish State is finding the European Union in wage recovery in relation to the period of the crisis. Fantastic! , the bank, which was one of the main responsible for the economic crisis, which so many families, businesses and jobs went on and on, now turns out that it's replenished with everyone's money to continue its private business and speculation at the service of the financial markets, inflating the buttocks of its directives and scamming and denouncing people. Perfect connivance between the State and the Spanish banking mafia, at the expense of people's lives and at the expense of public services, for which there was – and it turns out that there is, still – the minimum resources. And now the money of all remains unpunished, and even more, the State does not claim, judge, condemn, or embargo: endemic and structural revolving doors President, what do you think, your government, of this large-scale scam, with the direct involvement of the State?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.3.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. Answers the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.4.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr deputate, from the outset, let me thank the Bureau and the Chamber for the courtesy and courtesy of being able to allow this slight alteration of the order of the day because I can attend to an important compromise, therefore, without this session of control. Mr Riera, when you spoke to me of concern, of concern, indeed, then you have, I think, the issue that really concerns the citizenry, and it is that, while there is a state that has a great interest in asking for witnesses to companies that can be urns manufacturers or that can be developers of an information system, it has no – no – interest in rescuing more than 60,000_million euros from taxpayers, from all taxpayers, to rescue..., which they have allocated to rescuing the bank. Did you talk about this? Yes, it is. That with public money a banking system is rescued, when the minister guarantees in front of everyone, in his parliamentary office, that this will not cost the citizen a euro, and in the end we know, because they have at least..., they no longer have, say, the possibility to hide it, that the same government that guarantees us that those moneys are recovered admits that they are irrecoverable, the feeling of this is, as a minimum, the least we can experience. It's a shame, more and more. It's a shame if it's compared to what the attitude of other banks has been; in fact, of all European banks, of European countries that have been the object of rescue. They have all returned with interest the money that their governments lent them. Because the governments were aware that those moneys come out of the citizens' pockets; citizens who have been under all kinds of restrictions, at all kinds of..., let's say, deprivations, as a consequence of the most devastating crisis that has affected us. Obviously, from this point of view, we can not only express ours..., let us say it, unbelief, but our deepest indignation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.5.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.6.0	Thank you, President. President, among the rescued banks there was not only Bankia, there was also Catalunya Caixa, among others. The governments of the Generality of the moment and the parties that the donors supported are not strongly opposed to this thief, nor have they raised the possibility that this situation was an opportunity for the creation of a public bank in Catalonia. At the time, an express reform of the Spanish Constitution was approved, without democratic referendum, which prioritized the payment of the debt to finance over public services. We didn't want to see them appear in the confrontation, this debt cup, perpetrated for the troika and for the state. President, now and October 2nd, can we count on you and your government because this act of violence never happens again? To do justice, reverse the damage caused to people and public services and claim the return of what is from the people and who have been criminally released to the bank?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.7.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.8.0	Effectively, Mr. Deputy. You, your group, this Parliament and the citizenry of Catalonia will be able to count on this Government and I hope that with the majority, too, of this Parliament, if only, to demand the return to the city and to the part that is close to the Catalans – which is certainly a much larger part than the pes of the population over the conjunct of the Spanish State–, of these more than 60,000_million euros that have been ceded to rescue a banking system that, once rescued, a time already entered into the path of benefits and sustainability, is unable to return that loan. Which, if you went through the lives of each of us, that we had a signed mortgage, wouldn't happen to us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.9.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the outcome of the bidding for the purchase of ballot boxes for the celebration of the referendum of October 1st]] [[317-00166/11]] Second question to the President of the Generalitat on the political situation, formulated for Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.10.0	Thank you. Mr President, today we wanted to know that no Catalan company, nor the rest of Spain, with guarantees, has offered to sell to the Generality the ballot boxes to celebrate the referendum that you want to call, this referendum that is illegal and undemocratic. How do you appreciate, Mr President, that no businessman is willing to participate in and support this illegitimate act? Are you going to give up the purchase? In case you deny, what is the procedure they will follow from then on?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.11.0	Thank you, Mr. García. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.12.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr García Albiol, it is not true that no Catalan company has offered to make ballot boxes, because the contest was not for this reason, it was to approve companies that have interest in, among other things, to make ballot boxes; therefore, that is not true. Second, they showed up. Third, as in all proceedings, at least those under the responsibility of the Generality, must demand the maximum guarantees, all, also in this case, in all cases. And it is not the first time, nor will it be the last, that in a contest where guarantees are required – because we are asked for guarantees, and we demand them, guarantees –, if the offers presented do not complete them, we, without any type of problem, initiate the procedure through all the lives that the administered system allows us to achieve the objective, which is irrevocable, and it is that on October 1st, in the referendum that will be convened, there will be effectively, among many other things, ballots.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.13.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.14.0	Thank you. Mr President, at the very least, you have not answered my question, but we have achieved something, and it is that it is..., even if it is subliminally, that you acknowledge that the bidding for the purchase of ballot boxes is to hold an illegal referendum in Catalonia. Therefore, I believe that something we have made progress. Look, your answer is that trying to dialogue with someone who is fanatized – because you are fanatized, the government you preside over is fanatized – is impossible or very difficult, it's like in football, you can't argue with a fanatic. In their case, then, it is the same: they refuse to give explanations, do not give explanations because they constantly dedicate themselves to improvise. The ridiculous thing we met yesterday with the issue of ballot boxes is the best example of that improvisation, and we sincerely regret the image that is giving the rest of Spain, the rest of the world, the Generalitat de Catalunya. They've been in this comedy for five years and they're trying to extend it. Mr President, the independence process is a process, it is a movement of the political and social elites of Catalonia against the majority feeling of the Catalan middle class, a middle class who wants to live naturally and normally their double feeling of being Catalan and Spanish and for that we are, to defend the, all these citizens, beyond being right or left. They don't have a census, they don't have an election board, they don't have ballot boxes, and they beg volunteers to get their chestnuts out of the fire. It is jeopardising not only the credibility – which you and your Government have long lost – but it is jeopardising the prestige of the Catalan institutions and, above all, the future of it. Mr President, I ask you to try, although I know it is very difficult, but to try to regain the sense of prudence and common sense. Have the absolute guarantee that neither you nor your government are going to summon....
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.15.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.16.0	...nor are they going to celebrate a coup d'état in Catalonia... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.17.0	There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.18.0	Mr. Albiol, consider that the other, because he does not share his ideas, is fantasized and is a radical, I don't think he describes what could be understood as rigour, moderation, or otherwise, what you say is so much. Look, the bad picture that's giving someone in the world, precisely, is the Spanish State. The Spanish State, which has been the object of an editorial in one of the world's most important newspapers, the New York Times, in, precisely, giving it exactly things that you are saying. This day, which is not radical, which is not fantasized... – certainly, in which we have not invested a single euro – they are saying, to you, that they are making the ridiculous. That this thing of taking a look at the ballot box doesn't buy it from anyone. That you can buy your parish there, that you can buy the people who believe your own propaganda, but that when you come out for the civilized world, straightened up, usually the people that you only do is solve their differences, ep! At least in democracy, before an urn. Fixed, in the elites... – you say that this is a process of elites – you must be the country that has to enter Guinness with memories to hold the world's largest elites, because in the past six years, millions of people, according to you, have to form part of this powerful elite of Catalonia, which only wants independence for its interests. We do one thing, Mr. García Albiol: if you are so sure that there will be no ballots, and therefore that is no problem, and that there will be no reference, say that if there are ballots, you will go to vote. And, second, if there are ballot boxes, you will accept the result. It has the value of saying it, of compromising itself there? I do. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.19.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the reasons for which he does not present in his parliamentary office the details of the October 1 referendum, in place of doing so in another of his]] [[317-00168/11]] Third question to the President of the Generalitat on the political situation, formulated for Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.20.0	Thank you, President. President, beyond these circumstantial episodes, our question would like to go further to the root of the problem that is facing us these days. For the press, for the communication media we have learned that on the next day, his Government intends to do an act to explain, to reveal which will be the preparations of October 1. To us, we would like to ask him why he does not reveal these preparations there where it would correspond to do it, which is in his parliamentary office, before which his Government is responsible?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.21.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.22.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Lluís Rabell, you are on the 4th, if you wish, is summoned to an act that organizes a parliamentary group, that has the whole right of the world to organize, the parliamentary group, as its suppose that you have to organize acts, in which it explains, to the people that have an interest to know, who are the political activities, the political initiatives that will then be translated – and at that time, effectively, is when we will have to compare in this Parliament – on parliamentary initiative. He's invited and I hope to see him there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.23.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.24.0	I hope to see 'here explaining it, in his parliamentary office, that it is where things have to be discussed and political matters and where a responsible government has to respond. And I say this because we are concerned about a certain drift, a certain drift of undersistence from the Parliament of Catalonia. In this House we will talk about the Council of State Guarantees; we have a reform of the Rules from the table which, when we hear it, covers the rights of parliamentary minorities, and we have a way of working in which the Government wants to explain its things in a propagandistic way, but do not seriously debate them there where we can be critical, where we can have opinions, where we can really be examined. Because, President, three months from the date announced for the referendum, we do not yet know anything about the census, we do not know anything about the regulations that this call will employ, we do not know anything about the guarantees it will have, about the electoral authority that will govern it, or about impartiality and balance in the development of this call. Therefore, there are strong suspicions in the public opinion that there can be many things on 1 October, but hardly – hardly – something that is called a reference, a reference with guarantees, with recognition, with the possibility of being recognised at international level and, therefore, of being likely to compromise and bind anyone, starting with the same Catalan society. What we are doing here is a formal call for this debate to be brought there where it corresponds, with the rigour and political importance of the Catalonian Parliament, as a democratic conquest of the people of Catalonia, which cannot be treated in an instrumental or minor way. We ask you, President, to return to the Parliament of Catalonia its primary political function. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.25.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.26.0	Mr Rabell, to the Parliament of Catalonia which has to restore its functions are those groups which, first, prevent it from being debated or when it is debated from being brought to the Constitutional Court and then..., I do not speak for you in this case, but I can speak for you to participate or not in the committee, in the joint position in which it is proposed to debate everything that you now find lacking that is not debated. Believe me, this government has all the world's interest in explaining in this Parliament, as close as possible, all the details that you have now considered. This is not incompatible with the parliamentary group and the forces supporting the Government being able to explain to the citizenry, because it also has the right to know and has the right to ask and, more importantly, it has the right to bring it closer to it, through a campaign across the country, all the doubts and to collect all the contributions, because this is a process that has a basis, let's say, of basic democracy on which we do not intend to give up. And that will correspond to a parliamentary formality, and as long as it does. And I hope that when that parliamentary formality arrives... I am convinced that you will be here. I hope that all the groups that are now saying that the government is doing a bit less, because it does not bring it to Parliament, when they want it to be brought to Parliament..., when it brings it, I hope to see it discussing it. Because then we can all practice what we now say is that we're missing in the government. And I hope that here there is all the parliamentary debate that the people of Catalonia hope to have not only around the celebration and how the reference is guaranteed, but from which it will come later in the two possible scenes: that I win the yes to independence or that I win the no to independence. Because that's what we're looking for. The guarantees of truth, who will give them? The people of Catalonia. The validity of the result, will it be donated here? The people of Catalonia. Believe me: neither political apriorities, nor political party orders, nor threats of judicial apparatus, nor ambiguities in the international community, are sufficient because, if the people of Catalonia want, the reference is not only valid, but has binding effects.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.27.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the need to discuss in his parliamentary office the terms of the process and details of the October 1 referendum.]] [[317-00165/11]] Fourth question to the President of the Generality, on the political situation, formulated for Mr Miquel Iceta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.28.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I thought I would ask you, and practically in the same terms, the question that Lluís Rabell asked you; but after listening to your two answers, I remain convinced that the question is relevant. The republic of which you speak must be a parliamentary republic, the parliament must be the house where representatives of the people express their sovereignty and decide their own..., their wills, political actions, take decisions. You have decided that all that is said in the process is spoken in many places, but never in the first place in Parliament, which is where the popular will expressed through the ballot box resides. And that's why I ask you: don't you think it would be much better, much more respectful of self-government institutions, than the announcements you make, in whatever format you want, are produced in your parliament?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.29.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.30.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, believe me that I am surprised by your concern, because when we tried to do so you have gone to the Constitutional. So, I don't know if it's what you want to go back to the Constitution or really tell the truth when you say you want it to be discussed here in Parliament. [[Greetings.]] In Parliament it will be debated. Therefore, I hope – I hope – to see it in this Parliament, when the Government comes to present all the legislative and legal framework that guarantees all the guarantees that we demand ourselves and that citizenship is required because this process is done well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.31.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.32.0	Miri, Mr. President, we have been to the Constitutional Court always in defense of our rights, which you are standing up for. [[applause]] and that they want to continue to climb through a reform of the Parliament that brings to opposition those prerogatives and possibilities to control the government's action. And control of the government's performance is what we're talking about. You should come here and explain what you're doing. And I'm going to give him two dice. One: we tried to create a commission of inquiry to talk about these issues; you blocked it. But the most curious: we asked the government on 22 September what it was doing for independence. They told us that re, that everyone they did was already contained in the question of trust. Months later, May, we repeat the question, and you are referring to the answer given to us on September of the past year. And, therefore, one of the two: either you're doing nothing – and that would explain why you don't have any ballot boxes – or you're stealing from the chamber crucial information about what you yourselves say is the most important political initiative of the last three hundred years of Catalonia's history. And we, in defence of the rights of the Catalans, in defence of the rights of the Members, in defence of the rights of the parliamentary groups and of their actions, will go there wherever we think they are raised. And you, denying this information systemically, are climbing one of the basic rights of parliamentary opposition in this country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.33.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.34.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Iceta, I assume that the political initiatives that your group legitimately pushes in this Parliament, the first time that pushes them do not believe that it is in your parliament. It was in a national council, in a party congress, in a public act, at the Feast of the Rose..., in all these activities that you legitimately do, there they explain: "We will push a sequence of better and more we will do a process so that our groups can participate and we can bring to Parliament the result of a work planned so that when going to Parliament we have the maximum guarantees to get the maximum support. Is that what they do? Yeah. So are we. And we have the right to do it. Why do we not have the right to try to explain to as many people as possible, people who ask us to know – the right to know – people who ask to participate...? What's more democratic than listening to people before they can raise a text in Parliament? And second thing, Mr. Iceta, I've seen him defend the rights of Catalans with great vehemence. I can tell exactly the rights of the 2_million Catalans who want independence, like your defense, if it is neither able nor able to defend [[applause]] The rights of their mayors who want to participate in the referendum, which threatens to punish them? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.35.0	Thank you very much, President. [[He asked the President of the Generality whether he could rule out the fact that October 1st would call elections to the Parliament of Catalonia.]] [[317-00164/11]] Five questions to the President of the Generalitat on the political situation of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, addressed to Mrs Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.36.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, yesterday you categorically stated that there will be ballot boxes on 1 October. Can you categorically rule out that on October 1 you are not going to call Catalan elections? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.37.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.38.0	Many thanks, Mrs. Forcadell, Madam President. Madame Arrimadas, I have absolutely discarded it. I will not call autonomous elections to Catalonia on October 1st.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.39.0	Thank you, President. [[Someone's applauding.]] I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas". [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.40.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, you know that I am asking you if you will call them before 1 October so that there will be ballot boxes. And I love that you have not categorically denied that October 1st will not be held elections. [[Widow's remorse.]] Because not answering is also giving an answer. [[Widow's remorse.]] Besides...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.41.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.42.0	Quiet – calm – that does not pass re. Besides, it's that the only time you're going to put ballot boxes with guarantees, real ballot boxes, it's going to be election day. The later the worse. And I also tell you one thing: when you make promises about dates-related issues, I don't know if we have to believe you. Because, look, next July 10th is going to be a very important date: not only because the Security Board is finally going to be held – which..., I want to take advantage of to congratulate Councillor Jané for this – but because the famous eighteen months are being fulfilled to declare independence, do you remember, Mr Puigdemont? Or does he not remember his great promise when he acceded to the government? Do you not remember that in your election program, in your government agreement, there is not a single referendum on independence, because it was supposed to have already been done and now it was only left to declare independence? Look, you, who had just arrived in office, said: "In the course of months, we will have our state. That's what we're gonna do, that no one has any doubts. Man, I had the same strength promising independence in eighteen months that you have today talking about October 1st, and you are not going to fulfill either of the two things, Mr Puigdemont. So stop spending Catalan money and your time on a monotheme that doesn't take us anywhere, that you won't even fulfill. Let, above all – and I do ask this of you – of disrespecting all Catalans who do not share their October 1 plan, saying that they are not democrats; I ask you please. Stop putting more barracks in the schools, while putting higher posts to finger in the administrations. Stop looking for excuses for the situation of dependence in Catalonia, which we have a very serious situation, with the worst waiting lists in all of Spain. In short, Mr Puigdemont, stop defrauding the Catalans, everyone. Because you're not just ruling for the Independenceists, you're not ruling even for the Independenceists. And, after yesterday's crowd from the polls and seeing Mrs. Meritxell Borràs write to the TSJ saying that it's that the ballots are supposed to be for the AMPA elections of the schools. [[remorse of the voice]] , I think it's all right – it's all right – from the fiasco, as the gentlemen of the CUP say. Look, if you want to rush the last cartridge left of this exhausted and exhausting process, go to the Congress of Deputies, defend your proposal, accept the result of the vote. And when you get back, Mr. Puigdemont, please call elections, which is going to be the only time you're going to put real ballot boxes in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.43.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.44.0	Thank you very much. Mrs. Arrimadas, I am pleased that you finally recognize that four months after being invested president said that it would not happen, and that is that we will arrive at the end of the legislature. Now, at last, they are saying: "No, no, they are coming to the end! Yeah, of course, it's just that I already told them, that we'll get to the end. But you, four_months later, your parliamentary question that you asked me in this same control session, four_months later, is when you were planning to call elections to the Parliament of Catalonia. So, miri, split up after our investiture, after the takeover, this government has been climaxing – climaxing – the process that was committed to doing. Someone must have believed it, because we fixed it, we have the prosecution up to and where we have all the right to act, and we are, let's say, posing at the orders of the political groups, among which you must surely be the one, who have become a scarecrow and scares public workers, so that they do not help themselves or just participate in absolutely legal proceedings that one day someone can use to do what you say to be an illegal referral. Miri, on October 1st, there will be no elections to the Parliament of Catalonia and I will not call elections to the Parliament of Catalonia. Is that clear? [[Pause.]] So now I hope that the next time I don't say that the 1st of October there will be what actually can't be. We will actually put ballot boxes on it; we will put papers on it. But they don't worry about the ballot boxes, they worry about the contents, they fight for their position to win. Because at the polls that will be held on October 1st, the most important will not be the polls, they will be the papers that will be in them. And do you know who's gonna put down the ducks? They will not be put by the political parties' committees, or by the friends' media, or by the companies of IBEX 35, or by the bank with €60,000_million in the pocket, but they will be put by all – all and each – of the citizens of Catalonia who, anonymously, but with a lot of courage, have all the right of the world to vote and decide their future. What's it cost them so much to hear? Are we talking about accepting results? I propose that I accept the outcome that will come out October 1. It's easy for you. You say: "There will be no ballot box. Are you sure there won't be any ballot boxes? So, miri, I promised to say: "If there are ballot boxes, I will accept the result. Like you say there won't be any ballots, this is a compromise that can come out for free. Have the courage to say: "No, no, if there are ballot boxes, that I believe they will not be there," you say, "so, look, I will accept the result. It's more and more, I'm going to vote. Because like this, according to you, won't happen, so, it's a promise, it's a compromise that can come out free. I assure you that the ballot boxes will be there, but don't worry about the ballot boxes, we worry that there are the ballot papers with the vote and the decision, that this is inviolable, of the Catalans and Catalans of this country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.45.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generalitat whether the independence process harms the economy]] [[317-00169/11]] Sisena asks the President of the Generalitat, about the political situation, formulated for Mr Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.46.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, today, more than one question we would like to ask, if you will allow us, but that they are all connected in the same question. And we find it very opportune, because we are already less than a hundred days away from the reference, and it also coincides with these days that there are a whole series of data coming in that can confirm or deny a sequence of reports that have been tried and tried at times of hammer that is introduced into Catalan society; political sectors, media sectors, determined economic sectors, right? It's been a while since we've heard that the independence process and the determination to make the referendum scares the economy. Phrases of typus« independence has caused 44_percent of the companies to leave Catalonia in 2016, « the entrepreneurs flee Catalonia as of the plague, « Catalonia loses 60_percent of the foreign investments, etcetera, and we can continue, right? , a political report by institutions, but with perfect media coverage. Now, it turns out the data is coming, and it's no longer a matter of opinion, but of observation. And that's why, president, we'd like to ask you: according to the data that's been definitive for less than a hundred days for the referendum, do you think this whole process has spooked the economy? Has the catalan GDP pes of the Spanish State risen or dropped? Does the occupation go up or down? Is the twilight increasing or decreasing? Does the foreign investment to Catalonia go up or down? Are the prospects for economic growth better or worse than the initials? We believe that it is very opportune, I insist, a few days, a few months, of the reference..., if they can answer us, therefore, that some..., and that they say that it is "that which interests people, that it is economic growth because the middle classes can live better and that the most vulnerable..., there are more resources for them... President, we would therefore be interested in responding to these facts and knowing whether the independence process scares or does not scare the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.47.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Turull. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.48.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. MP, many years ago we heard this soundtrack, this letany – exactly the same as we've heard later on the letany that putting ballot boxes is the same as a time of state – in the sense that Catalonia's independence process scares investment and affects the economy. And I said on more than one occasion, and I want to reiterate here, that if we were to draw some conclusion, some consequence, in the cause-effect relationship, perhaps it would be the contract. Because in the period of the anonymous "procedure is when the memory was struck, and I also speak of 2016 and the first quarter of the 17th, for example of exporters from Catalonia. We have today a more internationalized economy than we had at the time of the Statute. The pre-independence Catalonia turns out to attract more direct foreign investment than the autonomous Catalonia. It is more: we have struck the historical record of all historical series in direct foreign investment to Catalonia. It turns out that we believe more occupation... I know, that this worries them and they don't like it, Mr. Ciutadans, that in Catalonia things go well, but in Catalonia it turns out that we reduce the rate of growth faster than the rate of growth in Spain, and we believe in occupation, more occupation than in Spain. And believe me, more than that, we're the Spanish state's corporate sector. I know, you're very worried about them when they hear positive data, because it doesn't fit with the report that the economy is fleeing the independence process. And when the data denies them, then they blow, because they say..., they just don't like them. So look: it's true. What do you want me to tell them? The reality is tossed, and it turns out that today Catalonia, today's Catalonia, the Catalonia that you curse and of which you speak so badly that it is ruled by fanatics... [[Widow's remorse.]] Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.49.0	Quiet, and please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.50.0	Don't worry, man. Let me finish – let me finish. Catalonia, which you say is so poorly governed today, is one of the regions that attracts the most foreign investment from Europe. It is the territory of the Spanish State where the most direct foreign investment grows. It is more: so are the prospects, favorable than the data presented by the Chamber of Commerce last week, that I invite you all to know, in that you see that the Catalan GDP grows in the conjunct of Spain, in that you see that the direct reversal of the State is 8.9, in that you see that the collection of taxes in Catalonia represents 21_percent of all the Spanish State..., that the latest information, of the BBVA in this case, indicated that the prospects have improved until and all for this 2017: 3.3_percent of GDP, 2.8 per cent for 2018, and a rate of up to 2018 of 9.3_percent, with the creation of 230,000 places...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.51.0	President, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.52.0	... of work. Listen to me, I think that's data from which we can feel very satisfied.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.53.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Ask the Government about the draft law on health care management formulas with public funds]] [[310-00248/11]] Ask the Government about the bill on public health care management formulas. The question is posed by Mrs Àngels Martínez, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.54.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Comín, before the preliminary draft bill of health care management formulas with public funds, I would like to ask you for your appreciation, above all to stop the reactions that have already unleashed the urgency of processing this preliminary draft, and as you see it must be the proper steps that have been taken since the Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.55.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martinez. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.56.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I thank you for the question. First of all, to clarify that this preliminary draft law is an obligation of the Government of the Generality to transpose a European directive, and we have already failed to complete the deadline set by the European Commission for transposing that directive. Therefore, we have an obligation, and when I came to the front of the department we failed to complete the expected term. Other autonomous communities, such as Aragó or València, have already transposed this European directive. The process of developing this law follows all the steps envisaged. You know that you read them, in the case of the Department of Health, first need a prior approval from the Board of Directors of the Catalan Health Service, where there are all social agents. In that steering board, an articulated text proposal was put on the table and voted by a large majority, representing, for example, the majority unions, which are insured in that steering board. And, therefore, everything was done with the planned procedure and with maximum transparency. It is more: they have obtained approval of this first joint proposal in the Board of Directors of the Catalan Health Service, they have made some public debates..., those entities that have requested it: the Third Sector Table, a debate with a very large attendance; the Health Circle, another debate with a very large attendance. And now, according to the procedure, we are entering the processing phase in the case of the Government, and for this reason the Government has approved the preliminary memorandum, which is a precept for any draft law, and it is likely to present the articulated text of the preliminary draft. Everything is done because we have the duty to do it, and it is done with the utmost transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.57.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mrs. Martinez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.58.0	Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Comín. Miri, fifteen days ago, roughly, here we celebrated the universalization of sanitation, some with more enthusiasm, others with less, but in any case we all tried to take strength to continue with the defense of public sanitation. And we're in love. Because in a short time you've already brought us this preliminary project, we've found this preliminary project, which is actually going against the universalization of sanitation. We do not apologize in European transpositions. What we can't do is make it one of friction and one of heat, and ultimately pose ahead of what you thought was Catalonia's DNA. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , in universalization of salvation private interests. Look, this is the first point. The second point is that I think you're deaf to what the account manager tells you. The account syndicate is complaining precisely one and the other a thousand times that the irregularities you see in your reports come precisely from the contents of what you at these times are pushing. But, in addition, this would be the third, this pre-project against equity and encourages inequalities. For example, when we do, we believe, a strong joint primary bet, what this law does, or this pre-project, is to induce inequalities in the primary. And legalize frauds and robberies, like for example, try to legalize Barnaclinic, which, after all, we all know what it means, but to more CAPs that are in a situation of difference and difficulty. The fourth point is that, for example, at no time do you triage between private and public rights, in these institutions. And what do they do? Increase tensions, as the auditor already reminds you. Look, what you're doing with this project is making public sanitation less public and masking...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.59.0	Mrs. Martinez, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.60.0	Yeah, I just got it right away. Emmascarar la sanitati privati... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.61.0	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. There's the word the Comin advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.62.0	Yes, quickly. Madam Member, you have seen a political intention in a coincidence of calendars. There's no way. It's just a coincidence, the approval of the Law of Universality... with the foreground. No more than you said is true – no more than you said is true. It's all right, because I know that with the dialog and with time – now we don't have enough time – I can explain it and show that no of the intentions that you now attributed to this law are certainly not. This is what it does to consolidate the LOSC layout, which is the preference for public providers in front of the private, and among the private, the preference for those without a desire for work in front of suppliers with a desire for work. Therefore, the only thing that he does is to reopen the key to a law that defines the Catalan health model and that we voted at the time for all the parliamentary groups that are in this chamber. All of it. Therefore, we do not move a_millimeter of what are the rules of the current game of the Catalan health system. Now, I have to tell you too...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.63.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.64.0	Well, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.65.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the school maid's service]] [[310-00247/11]] Vuitena asks the Government, about the service of school maid, formulated for Mrs Esther Niubó, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.66.0	Thank you, President; good morning. Honourable Councillor Ruiz, as you know, the step of primary secondary school assumed for many children and children not only to lose the food service, but also the aids linked to this service, which allow, for a band, to guarantee the food supply, but especially the equal opportunities. ESO represents a phonetic stage where the first symptoms of eating disorders are manifested, and if we share, as we do, with the educational community that the fooder service forms part of the educational project, it is important to transmit values linked to a healthy and balanced diet. A few weeks ago the survey of risk factors in secondary school students published by the Barcelona Public Health Agency gathered that an 11_per_cent of adolescents would pass. And here we don't talk about teenagers who don't die, who can be a practice, if they want, more or less extended, and who can even not listen to economic motives. Here we are talking about young people suffering from food shortages, and they are doing so now, in a context of economic recovery, but obviously not up to everyone. Counselor, what is the government's understanding of the compliment of this Parliament's mandate to recover the serving of fooder at the Institutes' own course, and especially when we know that they only have a serving of fooder less than 10_percent of the Institutes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.67.0	Thank you, Mrs. Niubó. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.68.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, we were just talking about this issue in the Committee on Education, and I will repeat it. First of all, the intensive day, as has sometimes been said, is not the teaching department's imposition. It's the demand of the centers. The centers have to ask for it. And, besides, you need to know that they require some requests and the consent of the educational community. That means the center, the family, and the assembly. And that's renewing every year. Therefore, it is not the compact day that has been imposed. And I repeat what I said: listen to me, in Catalonia it is not certain that there are children who do not eat or have food shortages. Because if you were, can you explain to me what social services are doing? The social services meet the food shortages, because, as this Parliament says, it is the social services that have the competence to do so, and so they do. And we can keep loading on the Teaching Department and linking it to food sufficiency, but we think it's an erratic policy, and then we said to them, "School beds represent 10 percent of the beds a student has to do. When you ruled, in the afternoons ESO did not go every day, and neither did you give scholarships every day. Therefore, if we want to talk seriously about this issue, we put the data on the table and do not want to load the Department of Education, first, the responsibility of the intensive day, which is a day demand for the centers and approved for the school board, and, in any case, we talk about how Catalonia is guaranteed, because it is guaranteed, the food supply of all the students of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.69.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. I've got the word "Miss Niubó."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.70.0	Thank you, President. Counselrera, I suppose I didn't dig deeper into the stigma that it supposes for a child of twelve years to eat in a social eater, nor the impact that this has on his education in cases of food shortage. You actually said yesterday in an information session that this problem, therefore, derived it from social services, in the sense that it was not a strictly educational problem, but that it transcended its department. But I want to insist: it is an equal opportunity issue. And I don't suppose you're telling me that every child who gets food aid in primary school has to be directly attached to social services in secondary school. But, in fact, the Greuges Syndic, in 2013, recommended guaranteeing the functioning of the food service at secondary schools five days a week, without a compacted day or not. Therefore, we cannot say precisely that you have taken away from us. The theme is another: you don't give importance to the educational value of the fooder's service. He knows we're not supporters of the compacted day, but today we didn't ask for this. Let's just say you're working from today to keep the institutes' facilities in place to enable the food service by September. For the time being, the reality is that the enrolments and the student who enrolled as a secondary student have been closed has not had any information about any type of help. But we don't resign. We do not agree that this service is restricted only to concerted centres, most of which are still in the game, or less than 10 per cent of public centres. And neither do we agree that in some cases, as is the case, NGOs or companies are involved in sponsoring this service. This government cannot continue to disengage from this educational service and must comply with the mandate of this Parliament. And let us not forget, neither, the food guarantee in non-lethal periods. What are you going to do, counsel, to ensure the food supply to the student you've been helping throughout the course, now that this course is over? What measures does your government have planned for periods not lectius? Wait, counselor, I'll fill you in. We have a course date, we have a parliamentary mandate. Don't let us down. They do their dues and, if it can be, don't leave them for the last hour. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.71.0	Thank you, Mrs. Niubó. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.72.0	Thank you, Madam President. Congresswoman, it's not certain that the high school doesn't have any help. You got it. We have replied to you repeatedly that you have helped to eat in high school. It's not true that all high school teachers are locked up. Listen to me, in this country there are more than two hundred secondary education centers that have canteen or snacker. And finally, and about summer, listen to me, you ask me: "What will you do to ensure that children eat? So, what we always do, is talk to social workers, and it's take care of the needy. Why, I insist, should children only eat the day they go to school? Aren't the kids supposed to die? Don't you guys have dinner? Don't you have to egg? And the disbands, and the diumenges, and the holidays and the holidays? And what does that cover in this country? Social services, through municipal social services, through entities, through couples, through open centres. Yeah, listen, it's not a stigma that a nano has to go to a couple or an open center. Do you know who sends them to a couple or an open center? Social workers, because they think it's the best answer for that student. So, stop saying stigma. Don't stigmatize. These kids get support; they're social entities, they're couples, they're open pleasures that give this service. Listen, in this country, kids aren't unattended. And if not, explain 'one thing: the poor child the year 2009, knows what percentage was? 30,7_per_cent. Do you know what it is, currently, 2016, after the transfers? 24_per_cent. Can you explain to me how it can be that in this country, when there were resources, there was a 30_percent child poverty, and at this moment that there is less, there is a 24? So, because this government is doing its job. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.73.0	Counselor, he's run out of time. [[Ask the Government about the state of health care]] [[310-00252/11]] Ninth question, to the Government, on health care. Formulated for Mr Jorge Soler, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.74.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, MPs and MPs. Counselor Comín, yesterday I read with great surprise that the teachers of the primary care of Tarragona do not have work load. This is stated by the territorial manager of the Catalan Health Institute at the Diari de Tarragona, as you can see. Do you agree with him, Counselor? Because the summer has arrived precisely and the workers of the health system explain that their directions will again keep the details. They will not practically contract replacements and secure visiting agendas, scheduled surgery and, as is already a established custom in Catalonia, they are also holding some hospital plants. The workers, counselor, don't they have a job load?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.75.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.76.0	Thank you, Madam President. No, I do not share this holder and, in fact, he is a holder in an interview that did not count on the express authorization of the department's communication cabinet, when the whole Catalan health system has instructions not to give interviews to the communication media without the prior authorization of the cabinet. For this reason we asked for explanations for this interview, for the fact that it has been produced and for its content.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.77.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mr. Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.78.0	I'm glad you don't agree, because if there's anything clear about it, these workers are offended, and we can say it here in a parliamentary chamber without any problems. Counselling, it is surprising, often, these types of statements and responses that are being made, often contradictions with what workers say, often contradictions with scientific societies and professional colleges. The other day, at the Faristol, I commented on the great concern among health workers for all the incomplete promises made by the legislature. I commented, for example, on the problems of the Terrassa Hospital collapsing; the same goes to Vall d'Hebron, to the Arnau de Vilanova; so, etcetera, in any hospital. We've had a legislature full of promises that now everyone recognizes impossible. You also know that primary care is revolutionizing. The workers have suffered from unfair detailing and the primary centers do not have better expectations for their own months. In fact, even the Greuges Syndic has opened an investigation. They can't ask the workers any more, and they don't have a job load. Calien reforms and they haven't done it. Upstairs, counselor. We've known a lot of plans, but what can you tell the workers why they can be calm? What has changed for this time? Citizens want to improve Catalonia with a better and new Catalonia for everyone – in response to an anticipated comment. Because, counselor, I want to take the opportunity to thank the health workers and wish them a good summer. I'd love for you to do everything you can so that you have it, that you can pass your consultations with dignity and that you can see that the policies – especially you, as you know, the most responsible – have to do all these reforms in order to treat the patients as they deserve. You're doing, please, some action to improve your health. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.79.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. There's the word the Comin advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.80.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Member, just a few days from now – this very week, if I don't get it wrong – we'll give you all the detailed information on the summer plan, but I'm already making it clear that, to the extent that all public health systems in the world are operating in the summer, they're professional and they're making beds available – all of them – because it's in the very logic of the system's statehood, this year in the Catalan health system we're closing less beds than last year, we're closing fewer plants and there's more professionals than last year. Therefore, every year the summer plan is better than the previous, and this year, I insist, fewer closed beds and more professional reinforcements to the areas where we lay professional. As you know, the summer plan is to put the activity where the citizens are; therefore, it is a move of activity from areas where demand falls to areas where demand increases. And this year will do better, even, than last year. And then you say to me: "This legislature, incomplete promises. He forces me to tell him something again that I have explained to him very often; I wouldn't want to say it again, but I have to say it. Miri, on February 14, 2016, I – and you were there – went to the Health Commission and made forty commitments before the Health Commission – forty commitments. I'm on the condition of saying..., they're written – they're written – and it's a public document. I'm on condition to tell you that by the end of July the Health Department will have completed all the threads for you. You take that document, you pass it on and you make it. Listen, I can check it out, it's very easy, it can do anything. Agafa: compromise 1, check; compromise 2, check; compromise 3, check. All the plans, all the law's projects, all the investments announced in that document, all of them have been strictly and religiously complete. And I am not satisfied because it seemed to me that it was my obligation before the citizens of Catalonia to make ambitious commitments that are written – they are written on the 14th of February – and to have completed them all, which is our obligation. You don't make me explain this to you again for the first time. The compliment of the commitments of the Department of Salvation at the end of July will be of the cent_per_cent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.81.0	Thank you, Counsellor Comín. [[Ask the Government about the tax system]] [[310-00253/11]] Draws up a question, to the Government, about the tax system. The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.82.0	Mr. Junqueras, good morning. You know that we have asked President Rajoy to lower the income tax to the middle and working classes. We now ask you, the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. You, who are so likely to set dates for monotheme ads, I ask you: do you have a fixed date to announce tax cuts to Catalans?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.83.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.84.0	Good morning, everybody. Thank you, President. Mr. Carrizosa, if your demand to President Rajoy in this area you are commenting on is the same as in the area of the autonomous, poor middle classes and workers of the Spanish State. And for what you do to us, as you know perfectly – I set an example for you, huh? – the fiscal effort that this country is making – among other things, because the contribution that citizens make per capita is much lower than that made in the middle of the Spanish State –, the effort that we are making is an effort that will translate into a value of almost 1.282_million euros, the result of the decisions that have been taken since 2012. Therefore, this country is making a very important effort. If, for example, the bank deposit has not been blocked, I'm sure we have enough room for things that you say you want to do and when you have opportunities to do they don't do them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.85.0	Thank you, Vice President. You have the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.86.0	Yeah. Mr Vice-President, I don't know why you tell me about self-employed people when the law we are presenting has the support of the ATA, which is the main association of self-employed people in Spain and all the main associations in Spain. But I tell you, for the time being, in Catalonia you are the champions in expressing those citizens who earn average and low wages. Between the fourteen_thousand_euros of income and the thirty_thousand_euros of income, in the autonomous community of Catalonia we have the highest tax tranche of all Spain – the highest of all Spain. Those who suffer to pay the mortgage, to arrive at the end of the month, are three_of_each_four Catalans included in that band; those three_of_each_four taxpayers are those to whom you make pay more than any other Spanish in the income tax in your autonomous tranche. They are pensioners, they are wage earners, they are self-employed with small businesses that pay for Mr Romeva's trips, the doubles, inefficiencies and state chiringuitos that you set up as, for example, the Tax Agency of Catalonia, to which you have multiplied the budget by three times, has multiplied the staff by three, to collect a small 0.2 of those new taxes that this Parliament has approved. A 300_per_cent increase for a raise of 0.2_per_cent. Look, last year in La Vanguardia, when the income campaign ended, it was said that 178 Catalans, of the 3_million_and_average of taxpayers, had contributed the money of the IRPF to the Catalan tax agency. And you have four hundred high offices, and there are almost fifteen people in the government; not half of your high offices have entered the money into the Catalan tax agency. [[Greetings.]] But I understand, I don't know what you'll have done now that this rent is over for your government members, but I understand that you with your own money don't play, but you play with the money of three Catalans, you're playing with the money of all of them. We are in a hurry, Mr Junqueras, to have elections and a new government that respects the tax effort of the middle and working classes of Catalonia and applies it in an improvement of social affairs. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.87.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. The words of Vice President Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.88.0	I see that the volume of applause is proportional to the apocalyptic level of the speech. Listen to one thing: the information I gave him about the autonomies is widely contrasted and, therefore, I will not repeat it. In the same way that you should be aware, for example, that the OECD, the year 2015, and the European Commission, at this very year's fever, have consistently criminalized the Spanish State, for example, because it does not deploy environmental taxation, and you, when you have the opportunity to correct it, do not correct it either. Therefore, you, for a long time, have become accustomed to giving lessons to everyone, taking advantage of the fact that they never take responsibility for themselves, and the first time they have the opportunity to take on those responsibilities, so they must also take responsibility for everyone. So, listen, this government is making an effort, making a resounding effort; it's happening to me exactly like Mr. Comín, that your questions are so repeated that they always give us the opportunity to re-explain what we've explained so many times, and it's that the effort we're making, for example, in the tax agency has allowed us to raise 360_million euros of tax fraud in the last two years, which, as you know, is a lot more than all the resources we've put in, resources that, more than anything else, we've been away from before, because they're now managed with much more efficiency. Therefore, we will continue to do this work of fighting against the tax fraud, and we would like you not only not to complain but to do what is close to you in the areas in which you have the opportunity to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.89.0	Thank you very much, Vice President Junqueras. [[Ask the Government about the extension of metro line 1]] [[310-00245/11]] Eleventh question, to the Government, on the enlargement of the 1st line of the metro, formulated for Mr Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.90.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Counsellor, what is the degree of commitment of the Government to complete the work of extension of the 1_de_metro line and its arrival in Badalona before the end of 2020?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.91.0	Thank you, Mr. Villagrasa. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.92.0	Thank you, Madam President. I am somewhat disoriented by the terms of your question: before 2020, obviously, these works cannot be finished. What does the Urban Director Pla say, the Infrastructure Director Pla? He says the construction project has to be completed by 2020. That's what you say. And we'll make it happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.93.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mr. Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.94.0	Mr Councillor, from the People's Group we have asked you several times to let us know what your priorities are for investment in infrastructure by the Government, and we always receive silence by reply. What we do know is for you..., what is not a priority is the work of prolonging the 1_de_metro line to Badalona, which is an aggravation for the neighbors of Badalona and Santa Coloma de Gramenet : seven years of delay and deception by the Generalitat. Look, the city of Badalona is the third city of Catalonia in number of inhabitants, and has seven metro stops, the same as Santa Coloma de Gramenet, which has one hundred_ thousand inhabitants less, and far below Hospitalet, which has only forty_ thousand more inhabitants. It is clear that for you Badalona is not a priority; if not, right now you would have already taken to public exposure the environmental impact information study of the first phase of the L1_de_metro's work, because, if not, without this step, without this first step, the work, it is impossible to accomplish the. Then you want to manage the works and investments that the state makes in Catalonia, and then you are unable to fulfill your own commitments. Then they'll say it's the fault of the state's funding, but then they are able to budget 120_million to create state structures. Stop wasting your time and devote your time to solving people's real problems. And in Badalona there is a real problem with public subway transport, and it is only up to you to solve it and to meet the promise of the neighborhoods of Badalona..., Montigalà, Bufalà and Lloreda ; that is, to meet the commitment to the seventy-thousand neighbors living in these three neighborhoods. If you really want to compromise, take the environmental impact information study of the first phase of the L1_de_metro to public exposure, because, I repeat, without this first step, the work is impossible. And, of course, by 2020, you're not coming.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.95.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. I got the word Councilman Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.96.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. MP, I take the recommendation of the classic: deep breath and count to god. Because a question with the terms that you raised from the political party that raised it is simply unheard of. First element: what did you not understand? We have told you that the construction project, as established by the Director of Infrastructures of the Metropolity Transport Authority, will be completed by the year 2020. But, second, man, a lord who was a little bit ahead of him, who had been mayor of Badalona for four years, while he was mayor of Badalona never – never, I emphasize: never – put this issue as a priority on the table. And at these moments, you wake up, you do a barrage-to-all intervention, an intervention loaded with demagogic, conjugate terms, conjugate terms, conjugate concepts... And now you're going to explain this to us? Look, at these moments, we're putting in place..., we're synchronizing the informational studies, we're seeking agreement with the current Badalona government team, with the current Badalona consistor – that's what we're doing –; we're responding to a platform created for us to talk about it and talk about it, after having passed a situation of a financial and economic difficulty of the first magnitude of the Catalonian Generality, unlocking projects – the L5 to the Hospital, line 9–, all of these elements, and now we're going for line 1. But you, from the People's Party, today, making this intervention, come and talk to us about line 1, after your mayor, your parliamentary group president, didn't say anything at all..., "I don't think it's an adjective that's short. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.97.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Rull. [[Ask the government about the rural cos d'Agents]] [[310-00246/11]] Dotzena asks, to the Government, about the Cos d'Agents Rurals, formulated for the Lord Sergi Saladié, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Cree Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.98.0	All right. Thank you, President. She will advise Serret, five months ago of the assassination of two rural agents in Aspa, and at the end of that fateful success one of the immediate commitments of the department was to create a working group of experts who would have to draw up a safety report in order to improve the working conditions of the Rural Agents Cos. Can you tell us if this report is already completed and if you have been informed of its contents at the Rural Agents' Centre? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.99.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Serret, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.100.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, I appreciate the question. Certainly, yes, five months ago today. From the first moment we were conscious..., and we were working with the body to develop a whole strategic plan to improve the functioning and structure of the body. Since the murder of the two rural agents, the issue of security has become the focus of the debate, and from there it has been decided to create this group of experts. This group of experts has been working, has not finished its work; we have some preliminary results, a preliminary report; the 30th is back to meeting and will continue with the debates and their proposals and recommendations. And the result of this preliminary report we've already put forward some first actions, such as the inician, the inician of the course of training on security and self-protection issues, and we've put forward some first instructions and orders of materials and elements in order to improve everything that is above all security in a broad sense, huh? , which is the self-security and self-protection of rural agents.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.101.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the word Mr. Saladié.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.102.0	Thank you. So, well, according to us, several unions of the Rural Agents' Cos have said, this report is done and the department hasn't informed the agents in good time. As you said, they did announce from the department that it would be this course, this course that initially was to be thirty hours, and that for the time being..., and that it would start at the beginning of June, that in principle it has begun these weeks and that in the place of thirty will only be twenty-four hours, basically because there is no authorization of the inspection of weapons of the Civil Guard. This course, which calls itself "self-protection, basically is to introduce agents into the extensible fuck and sleeve handling, elements that, according to which he informed..., or according to which he informed the Committee on Safety and Health at Work, already have the purchase consignment started together with the anti-ball armor. Do you consider that with this course of twenty-four hours the officers could carry out inspections, including hunting, with greater security than they had until now? Do you consider that with a mid-age CAR of almost fifty years this course provides your workers with greater security or, on the other hand, increases in the risks associated with these elements? Is it really the advice that the agents of this thing are prepared to train people in the course of their working day? The extensible fuck, or element of defense, as the Directorate General of the CAR euphemistically says, is actually a weapon, and as I said before, if you need the power to inspect weapons, which is a competition, now for now, in the hands of the Civil Guard. Can we be told by the Counsellor who was the answer from the Civil Guard regarding this petition? Don't you think the advisor that a specialisation of agents in those risk pockets like hunting would bring more real security to the agents? Faced with these questions, do you really believe that the department is doing everything possible to improve the working conditions of the Rural Agents' Centre and to avoid as far as possible a new tragic success? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.103.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Saladié. There's a word for Constellera Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.104.0	Thank you, President. Deputy, I'll start at the end. Yes, I am convinced that we are doing everything that is at the very hands of the government now to, I insist, structure and improve the body in an integral way and taking into account the history of the body. And that's why we're working on different lines in a simultaneous and complementary way. I insist, the fact of the murder of the two rural agents has placed security in the focus, but it is not the only element. And, as you yourself said in the intervention, it is obvious that we find ourselves with a very different thing, a very vocational thing, but with many vocations, a thing that makes a wide variety of functions, and that therefore requires being able to get to the extent that these specializations are possible. But these specialties also need to be able to advance in this necessary dimensioning and structuring of the body. Therefore, parallel work is: this group of experts continues their work, continues their work trying to make recommendations taking into account this wide-ranging visit. The fact of giving more security is a strategy of self-protection, deterrence in order to cope with the diversity of situations, not specific ones – hunting control is a specific service. And above all, what we have very clearly is also continuing to advance in what is dimensioning. We're... in October, we're bringing in the sub-inspectors' summons, 50 sub-inspectors, 50 more rural agents, and above all we're already pulling forward the contract of twenty-nine interims; twelve have already been appointed. Therefore, the steps are firm and forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.105.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the latest actions in LGTBI]] [[310-00249/11]] Tretzena asks, to the Government, about the later performances in matter of LGTBI, formulated for the lady Natalia Figueras, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.106.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, today June 28th, International Day for Liberation LGTBI. If we read today we will see that there are very outstanding news, such as a cyberattack, such as the Diagonal project, such as the operation against the Islamic State, the Palau summit, etc. But for many people today is an important and different day. It's an important claim. Today's a day when we look with a smile on June 28, 1969, where the discrimination-pathy decided to say something bad. Today is a day when they recognize rights, a day that remembers that we have to be free of discrimination. We are happy to be where we are, but worried because there are still many clear examples of homophobia in our society that prevent LGBTI people from expressing themselves and living their lives as they wish. This Parliament was approved last year by Law 11/2014, of October 10, to guarantee the rights of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenderes, intersexuals, and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia. The law reverses the historical demand of the associated wealth that has led during these decades the claim of these rights. But the public policies of LGTBI were not directed exclusively to some concrete people but to the whole society, because we are still far from this full normalization. We want to build a high-quality country, a republic that offers opportunities for everyone, and to do so we need a government of the country that gives an answer. Will you advise, who are the actions and measures that your department is pushing to build in our home the republic of rights and freedoms in the area of LGTBI? Because in this society, as the journalist Bassas tells us, for the good and for the suffering it is hardly unbelievable; for the suffering, because evil, the fruit of a thousand social and personal causes, is the other side of the good, and for the good, because, with effort and talent, you can win, just as in society, many marathons of life.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.107.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Figueras. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.108.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, honourable Member, for the opportunity today to ask me this question. Because, as you said very well, it's 40 years old. And today, on the 28th, it is therefore a commemoration of what are the demonstrations of the Front d'Alliberation Gai, of these forty years, that I want to remember that they were people who at that time were not considered legal, that they were socially treasuries, so they were not well considered, and that thanks to their social movement they converted the legitimacy that they had into legality, as many others are doing with other themes. We want and we are a government that we answer now, but we will also give answers to the republic of rights and freedoms for all people. At these moments we are nationally articulating the policies of LGTBI with impulse to the creation of the network of services of integral attention in the municipalities. More than a hundred people have already formed themselves as local world referents, supported by the program contract for the first time. Therefore, fourteen full-service services. This very week there won't be any backs of us. Second. We have trained staff of entities, public workers of administrations, residents of large people, faculty, for long-term advice on all LGTBI themes; an important reinforcement to entities to have visibility and to be able to grasp perfectly as the key piece of defense of all the rights of the collection. We have improved the National Council LGTBI, which goes from twenty-three to thirty-five entities. In addition, we have improved representation at the level of all of Catalonia, resulting in a polyhedral view of all sectors and, above all, cross-cutting. This same July is the end of the process of the new rule, and we will tend to have the government agreement. We have given economic support to different entities for associated projects, such as the Observers against Homophobia, and financed entities for the 267 measures of the Law; deployed LGTobia protocols; punctual actions: seventy-eighth information dispatches, complaints..., therefore, zero tolerance, for example, in the circulation of the bus Make Hear, Homofob books..., the first sanction; sensitisations and timely facts, such as today the flag to all parts of the department, but also to the Palau of the Generality, or the photocall you will find here below, today itself, in Parliament, for all those who want to make sensitisation and dissemination of all fears. Therefore, we work the air, but we also work for a republic with all the rights for all the people of our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.109.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asks the Government about the actions relating to the National Pact for the University]] [[310-00250/11]] Fourteen questions, to the Government, on the actions relating to the National Pact for the University, formulated by Mr. Jordi Munell, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.110.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, good morning. Honourable Counselor, we can say to our country, and with a certain pride, that we have a good university research system. Since the first takeover of competitions until today, a consolidated system has been deployed, with universities distributed throughout the country, throughout the territory, and with a law of own universities. Quality policies have allowed us to arrive until today. Some data and figures thus testify; in particular two. A 44_percent of our university students in Catalonia are enrolled in universities that are considered among the 100 best in Europe. We are one of the countries with the greatest scientific productivity. Each year there is an increase in the number of articles published in indexed journals, specialisations, and articles made with international collaboration. With only 0.1_percent of the world's population– we are a small country–, we publish more than 1_percent of global scientific production; with only 1.5_percent of the European population, we have more than 3_percent of scientific production in Europe. Still, our university research system is sure to have much more and more important challenges to accomplish, and taking into account that we are in a changing society, such as today. It must reach the concerns of all the people and institutions that form part of the social system, of the university system. Connected to what I've exposed you, this week two important themes have been known by the department that you're encapsulating: for one thing, the National Pact for the University, and for the other, the Price Decree for the course 2017-2018. The National Pact for University is an example of this government's willingness to reach a consensus on key issues and, at the same time, to address all the opportunities and challenges that the university and research system offers us. On the other hand, the new Price Decree for the 2017-2018 course contemplates and incorporates important reductions to make them lower. In relation to these two announcements of your department, the Honourable Counselor, who are the actions that the Government can take in relation to the National Pact for the University and who are the most important novelties of this decree that it incorporates, therefore, for the course 2017-2018, for which it does the price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.111.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Munell. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.112.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, as you have said, with the data you have presented, the Catalan university research system is a model that has had a very positive evolution. And, if there are any actions that have contributed to this positive evolution, there has been continuity in all policies over time, because some policies that have been based on consensus and that have allowed it to continue... give good results. Then, starting from this base, starting from the base of good foundations, we have to face the challenge of leaving the university and continuing to bet on those policies that are essential for our country – and the university is one of them – we have to continue to bet on consensus, to work and to ensure that the university will continue to be an important tool. And that's why with the will of all, with the will of the university community, through the rectors, through the presidents of the social councils, through the representatives of university students linked to Ceucat, through the most representative business organizations and unions, and also from parliamentary groups, and obviously with the government, they wanted to boost the work of a national pact for the universities they want, in time – because we have given ourselves a year of work – to lay these foundations so that the Catalan university model continues to be a success for the future. And not just a success, but more so, as you said, it must also guarantee this equal opportunity for access to higher education, which must be one of the bases that this National Pact must contemplate for universities, through scholarships and social pricing. And in this sense and reflecting the majority will of the Parliament of Catalonia, expressed in the law accompanying assumptions, the Government has begun to process the new Order of Preus, which for those students with families with returns – for example, with four members – of 38,000 euros net will suppose, for this coming course, a reduction of 80_per_cent of the cost of enrollment of universities; for that of group 2, which is up to 42,000 euros, they will suppose a decrease of 70_per_cent. And for the first time the fairies will be introduced [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] in the masters who qualify for a profession.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.113.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the actions related to the 2017-2018 Pla de fois]] [[310-00251/11]] Fifteenth question, to the Government, on the actions related to the Pla de fois 2017-2018, formulated for the lady Carmina Castellví, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.114.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor Romeva, the Spanish Transition is the result of a reform of the institutions of the dictatorship, carried to term as if democracy were the natural evolution of the dictatorship, and not its antithesis. All this, however, involves the impunity of many crimes and the collective dismemberment, which comes even to historical revisionism and the denial of everything you have to see with the victims of the Civil War and the Francoist repression. The new Catalonia that we want to build among all must recover and maintain the record of the victims, deepen in the recovery of the historical memory and repair in democratic terms the individuals and the collections that have suffered the most injustice and oblivion. For this reason, counselor, we consider that the Pla de fis 2017-2018, together with the Genetic Identification Programme of Disappeared Persons during the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship, are a great step towards the recovery of individual and collective dignity. We know that it is a complex task, that requires the collaboration of various departments and that involves putting in operation a whole series of human, technical and technological media in order to be able to make a thorough enhancement of genetic profiles, to establish parenting relationships and to determine personal identifications of the remains. But I have to do it. It is of justice, in the deepest sense of the word. There are many families who have the right to recover their opinions, pairs, Germans... Last week, Figuerola d'Orcau, at Pallars, was exhumed from the first open pit in this Pla de fois. The date of this pit is 1938, where it took eighty years to repair the historical memory and, I insist, to do justice. We're late, counselor, eighty years from the end of the war, forty years from the Transition, and there are still political leaders in the state who want the missing to follow. I will not speak of restoring dignity to those who have never lost it, but we do face the future with dignity, with the full compromise that justice and reparation that the denied fools never remain in oblivion. We do not resign ourselves to the fact that our people continue to escape by the vorals of the reelers in anonymous tombs or in the formfrats of the Valley of the Fallen. That is why it is important to know this Member and her parliamentary group how the plan of genetic identification and development and the actions of the Pla de fois 2017-2018, of disappeared during the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship, is developing. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.115.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castellví. Reply by Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.116.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the advisor's intervention have not been recorded.]] Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Indeed, as you know and very well have stated, this government's commitment from the first day is precisely to bring up to date memory policies. For a year now, we have been due to the end of a program on the mark of the eighty-year anniversary, of the commemoration of the eighty-years of the escalate of the Civil War, and basically with a whole series of acts, proposals, initiatives, among which the two that you have mentioned, that are the Genetic Identification Program and the Pla de fois. For what he does to the Pla de fois, there is a whole series of actions– Pla de fois 17-18–, which correspond, in the first place, to a work that is very important, that is geolocation. Since a few months ago, we have crucial information: we have been able, thanks to this site of geolocation of pits, to know that there are 123 new pits detected in the area of the Lands of the Hebrews and the Priory; this raises up to five hundred, more than five hundred, the pits that we have at these times localized, between probable and confirmed, and, obviously, it is a work that does not end here, it is a work that will continue. The other work that is being done in this mark is the collection of ossial remains on the surface, precisely to the Lands of the Hebrews, to the Priory, but also to the Noguera and the Pallars, we have been able to collect evidence that correspond approximately to thirty people. We're following it. It is, in these moments, one of the emergencies, as well as you said, that demands more zealously. And, finally, the opening of pits. The year 2017, we have predicted, at least – at least – to open it up, from those we already have locations; if they can be more, so it will be. The first was in Figuerola d'Orcau, just last week, with the remains exhumed from such people. This demonstrates the will of this government, but above all the need for this society. The goal is that we can detect the genetic information of these remains and create it with the genetic information that we are accumulating in another program, which is the Genetic Information Program. This Genetic Identification Program, which we do together precisely with the intervention of the Department of Health and the Department of Justice, effectively demonstrates that there is a demand, a social demand. The register of missing family members at these times rises to six thousand and continues to grow. It is to these people that we take the DNA samples, that they allow us to dig them, of course, with the samples that we are recovering from the opening of the pits and from the collecting on the surface. This shows, indeed, that slow, complicated steps are being taken, of extreme laboriousness, but that they demand enormous sensitivities. And, therefore, they are doing themselves with a great responsibility, but also with an inescapable determination. And I want to end by thanking the groups of this chamber and, obviously, the entities, in particular the Commission of the Dignity and Montserrat Palau, because we can finally approve the Law of the legal reparation of the victims of the Francoism, which will allow us, in the end, to annul judgments summarise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.117.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.118.0	... of 63,961 people...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.119.0	...I know it's hard, but it's run out of time. Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] The second point of the order of the day is: communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees must be communicated to the plenary, but as long as it is included in the plenary's file and, moreover, it has been distributed to all the Members and Members, ask them if we can..., I urge them to complete the reading. [[Pause.]] Okay. Completing the rule 49.2, let's move to the next point of the order of the day. [[Architecture Law Project]] [[200-00003/11]] The third item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee of the Regions on the draft law on architecture. I'm guessing the deadline to file... to petition you to go to the Guarantee Board ends at twelve in the middle. So, it's still an hour away, but if there's no problem, we'll do the same. [[Pause.]] All right, then. In accordance with Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure and in accordance with the Government's request, we shall begin the debate with the intervention of the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Please leave in a hurry and in silence, because Counsellor Rull can start the debate. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.120.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament..., councillor Vila, which, in fact, was in the previous legislature the impulse of this Law of Architecture. In the first term, express the satisfaction of the Government of Catalonia in order to arrive at this moment. This is an important law. This is a country law. It is a law that is the appropriate answer to a key question, which is: what kind of country do we want to be? And we have decided, through this Law of Architecture, to be a country that embraces a modernizing agenda, for a band, and, for another band, that incorporates into all elements of government action, of transformation of the country, the basis of sustainable development. And we do it through architecture. Architecture and heritage are a key element in the history and development of any country. Their quality defines the identity of the past, the living conditions of the present and the individual and collective opportunities of the future. Placing in full this transcendental dimension of architecture and architectural quality is what motivates and justifies the raison d'être of this law, a law of architecture that wants to be in the holistic sense of the term. Today we will not approve a law only for the architect, we will approve an law of architecture in all its surroundings, in all the declines that the architecture undertakes. A law, therefore, for all professionals involved in the process of architectural creation. This is the basis and this is the key: a law for all professionals involved in the process of architectural creation. Architectural creation is the result of a process involving a multitude of professional disciplines. This law does not intervene to evaluate and condition which are the disciplines that configure the competition mark to participate in the process of architectural creation. The law does not fail to refer to the multidisciplinary, multi-disciplinary presence of experts, participation of all professional disciplines involved in the construction process. Still, let me, tanmate, make..., express some specific words to the architect. Catalonia has excellent architectural referents who have designed the country internationally. This isn't much of a revelation. We have an extraordinary historical arrival distributed throughout the territory, from which in the last century we can highlight from the Modernism of principles..., from the beginning of the XX century – Puig and Cadafalch, Jujol, Domènech and Montaner, Gaudí... –, the architecture of the Republic – of Sert, the GATCAC – and, later, surpassed the first part of the dictatorial regime, an closure of the modern architecture focused on the R Group, around figures like Josep Maria Sostres, Joan Antoni Coderch, Bonet and others, and continuing with the Barcelona School, with references like Oriol Bohigas, until our days, with the recent international recognition of the architecture of the RCR study, awarded with the Premi Pritzker. Of the unknowns before that our churches and masses made at the later Pritzker architecture awards, the RCR garrotxins. We also make this law of architecture for the projects in which they are working or also for an unfinished Holy Family. Why are we doing this law? In recent years, there has been a growing priority for economic and regulatory aspects of building that are prevalent over immaterial values and the social, environmental and cultural dimension at the time of assessing architectural proposals, with mechanisms of action that prioritize short-term results, much extended by general interest, common good and transcendence that these may have in the long term of their own generations. To a good extent, what happened to the festival... remember that project? , in which there is an obvious, robust, clear priority of the economic factor, which torpedoes all elements of quality reference. Therefore, we must be able, in the current context, to make a rethink of instruments that allow us to adapt to the current paradigm shift, and that affects social, economic and environmental aspects. In this sense, various initiatives are being carried out by the Government that are at various stages of elaboration, as is the case with the new urban agenda of Catalonia, the law of territories or this very law of architecture. These initiatives tend to implement mechanisms that allow us to place people as the center of urban development policies. Why, then, do we do this architecture law? The objectives are very simple: to put in value the architecture as well as public interest and to distinguish it as well as functional to guarantee the welfare of people and social cohesion. The law also wants to preserve architecture as immaterial as social interest and cultural interest. We want to break this trend that has led us more and more to prioritise, as I said, economic aspects over qualitative aspects. Who are the strong points of this law? Very quickly: that it recognizes the value of simultaneous and coordinated participation of all professional disciplines involved in the project and construction process needed to ensure the highest quality. This is also a pioneer law. It will be the first law that in these terms opens to the Spanish State. And in Europe only France, only the French State, just last year incorporated its law of freedom of creation, architecture and heritage, the focus that we are now planting here. The law also strengthens transparency, competition and publicity in public procurement processes. For example, opening the option to participate in contests to collect which until now were difficult to access, such as young professionals. And, at a later stage, it enhances a complete view of the life cycle of constructions and their requirements, such as the goddesses, environmental, articulating mechanisms that will involve an economic estuary in the execution and exploitation phases of buildings. These are the basics on which we build this law. A piece of law from the consensus; the consensus within and the consensus outside the Parliament. And it is true that the bill that we initially put on the table does not comply with this requirement, but it is essential that this bill lasts for a long time; that the various actors and parliamentary groups feel reflected in these terms. We want a structural law of a country that has lasted in time from the legitimacy, the force of its processing: an inclusive law, a modernizing law, a law that makes us more sustainable, a law for the society of our times. This is the key element and the fundamental element. We, like the country, like the government, have wanted to push a triangle, in this sense: everything that refers to sustainability around the climate change, the Law of Territories and the Law of Architecture, which gives complete coverage to this visit and to this settlement. This country, today, approving this law, insists on it – and I finish as it began – they intend to embrace this paradigm of modernity, of modernization of the country. And, finally, I just want to express some thanks: to Agustí Serra, Director General of Land and Urban Planning and to her team for the work done; to all the parliamentary groups for their availability and collaboration; to the rapporteur of the law, the deputy Meritxell Roigé; to the councillor Vila, to whom they owe the impulse of this law, and to the professional colleges that are part of the law, for the process of dialogue and contributions. And, in recognition of the multidisciplinary nature of architecture, I would not like to leave myself – since this law is not the law of architects, as I have said, but is the Law of Architecture – to the College of Architects of Catalonia, with its own insistence, tenacity, indefatigable, Lluís Comerón; to the College of Pairs, Architects and Engineers of Catalonia, with its President, Mr. Jordi Gosalves; to the College and Association of Industrial Engineers of Catalonia, with its Department of Pere Palace and the House of Malagasy Jordi Guix; to the College of Engineers, with its President, Mr. Graduats; to the College and Association of Industrial Engineers of Catalonia, with its Department of Industry, Simply, today we look at the Mirall, we look at the Spill and we would like, when we look at the Spill, to be able to please the country, but above all, to reach the own generations a way to do things better for their future and for our present. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.121.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Rull. The next word is Mrs Meritxell Roigé, who has been nominated by the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.122.0	Thank you, President. Councillor Rull, Director General of Land and Urban Planning, Mr. Agustí Serra, technicians of the department who accompany him..., to greet all the guests who today accompany us, in the first place, to the College of Architects ; also to the rest of the architects of the country who today accompany us – will allow me a special greeting to those who come from Tortosa, from the demarcation of the Ebre – ; also to the remainder of the guests who accompany us today: to the President of the College of Apparellers, Architects and Engineers of the Building of Catalonia ; to the President of the College of Architects; to the President of the College of Architects and Engineers of the Building of Catalonia ; to the College of Architects; to the College of Architects; to the College of Architects Companies and fellow Members, I am speaking on this first occasion as a rapporteur of the Law of Architecture, a law that goes up to Parliament, today, after a little longer than we thought of its origin, but which allows us to today bring to the plenary, as the Councillor said, a law that enjoys a broad consensus, not only political, but also the whole fabric to which he addressed. A law that came into being at the time at the Department of Territories led by Councillor Vila, to whom I take advantage to recognize his initiative and the fact that at that time I value the importance of having a law, in our country, a law that we will approve in this plenary. It was Councilman Rull, in this legislature, who couldn't approve it. He has urged us at all times to seek the consensus that allows us to bring this law today with many better introduced from all the debate and all the parliamentary work. Because the government's will, the councillor's will, the will of this parliamentary group that speaks to them has always been to fulfill a good law: a law that was effective, a law that the different professional laws felt it, a law that the different fields – and specifically the Administration and also the local world – find in this law a tool that you allow them to facilitate in the different aspects of the architectural process. The result was, therefore, a law that came up today at the end of the parliamentary debate, the result of a joint work with the different professional colleges, and also with the rest of political formations, to whom I would like to thank the trust and the willingness to reach agreements to make this law possible. At the time you gave us a vote of confidence and we were able to continue the parliamentary process, and today we approve a law that counts with a broad support of all. And that's why I appreciate the work that has allowed us to get here to all the speakers, especially to which you have made possible the text that we bring to approval today, and that today, partially or totally, you will give support to the law. To thank you, therefore, for your hard work, and also the fact of accepting a rhythm of proposals that I recognize that has sometimes been a little accelerated, but that has allowed us to today the law may be a reality. Thanks, in the first place, to Hortênsia Grau company; also to the company Jordi Terrades and Santi Rodríguez, companies already of a number of questions of law, of this and of previous legislatures; also a thank you to Mr Sergio Sanz, who now does not see him... – ah! , here – and also the company Sergi Saladié, still not to share the text of the law. And, obviously, also a thank you to the parliamentary group company, the Marc Sanglas, to always count on its support in all the procedures. I would like to highlight in this law the role of the different peers who have exposed their criteria to the law. I can't quote them all, but I can say that they have helped us, and a lot, to improve the text and enrich it. They pull out of the comparisons of the different colleges, of all the people they compared, we saw that we could get to improve and strengthen the text of the law. And in particular, a thank you to all the professional colleges that compared and brought us their point of view. Some are present today. And I want to give thanks to all those who appeared at the time: obviously, to the College of Architects, but also to the College of Technical Architects and Engineers of the Building; to the Engineers of Ways, Channels and Ports; to technical engineers; to industrial engineers; to the environment; to geographers; to the College of Graduate Engineers and Industrial Engineers; to the College of Biologists; to the College of Politólegs and Sociologists; and also to the College of Economists, that I am all that, far from the differences in our appearances, you could bring your point of view to the law and that allowed us to the different parliamentary groups to vote. And also a reference to the local world, to the Catalan Association of Municipalities and Comarques, to the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia, and to all those people from the local world – the different mayors, governors... – you have gone to get your comments and suggestions that bring us today, too, to have a law thought and done for this first line that are the assemblies. We thus have a law that counts on an articulate that mainly establishes measures of promotion and impulse of architectural and urban quality; of contracting; of drafting projects; of direction and execution of buildings, and of urbanization of public spaces. A_mark, therefore, very broad, to define what we understand as architecture and the values that it brings to us, as we always define to the different articles of the law. The law establishes, moreover, measures for the impulse of architectural quality, which, in short, drives the origin. The origin was this: to be able to preserve this quality and to give it even more value, so that it brings us to a greater excellence for what it does to architecture and its whole process. In my next speech, I will explain in more detail what this background law is, what our parliamentary group wanted to hear about it. Now, as the rapporteur put it, it is only up to me once again to thank the parliamentary groups for their support, the department, Councillor Rull, the Director General of Urbanism and all their team, their support, and the work done, which I shall also mention later. And I finish this first intervention by thanking the work done to Parliament's servants. To the Iletrat, Mr. Pere Sol. Father, many thanks, once more, for your work, for your support, for your knowing how to do well, which has allowed us in many moments to come to terms and be able to go unchecking the different aspects. And a thank you also to Mrs. Eva Vendrell, manager, and Mrs. Rosa Galvany, linguist. Thank you one more time for your work on this law. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.123.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Roigé. The parliamentary groups which have reserved lists to defend in the plenary will continue to intervene; later, the rest of the parliamentary groups will set their positions. In the first place, he has the word, to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Sergio Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.124.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, deputies, deputies, representatives of the col·legis..., from Ciutadans, during the debate to the whole that we held, on the bill that the Government presented to us, we expressed our skepticism about the need for it. We did so because we believe that, more than new laws, sound and sustained public policies are needed to achieve the objectives it sets out. We do not consider that a new law is necessary in order to have a quality architecture. In fact, history has bequeathed us great works of architecture that were carried out in times when there was little legislation and that today are part of our heritage. But we do not say that a law cannot contribute to improving architectural quality. That is why we do not table an amendment in its entirety. We took part in the presentation and tabled a number of amendments aimed at improving the final text. In the first part, the general provisions and measures to promote and boost architecture, trying to clarify the text and seeking greater efficiency in the use of language. One of the paradoxes of this law is that it is announced that it wants to serve to publicize and promote architecture, but in much of its text avoids making reference to architecture. For example, the original project referred to the « Catalonia Architecture Prize, which has become the « Catalonia Prize in the Architecture Field. There are expressions such as architectural creation services or architectural process services, which avoid referring to the conventional form of architectural services. Why does this happen? Is it possible to promote what we do not dare or name? Look, before explaining why they use these expressions, I'm going to read a note published recently on the COAC website: "Now four years ago, the College of Architects started a campaign that, with the name "Yes to Architecture", had as its objective to renew the value of architecture for society and in front of the approval of the Law of Collegiates and Professional Services. Since 2013, the Department of Lands and Sustainability, with the impetus of the College of Architects, began the process of drafting the future law of architecture with the common objective of establishing a new legal framework that fixes the measures of promotion and impulse of architecture as well as public interest and promotes architectural quality in planning, projection and execution of buildings and urbanisation of public spaces. This law was driven at a time of uncertainty and mistrust about the effects of the Colleges and Professional Services Act and its liberalization. Especially concerned was the break with the traditional division of powers between the various professionals in the building and town planning sector, as there is some confusion about the level of competence of the latter in developing or directing works of this nature. So, I say again, why aren't things called by your name in this law? For precisely because that distrust is maintained among the representatives of the professionals. And, in the end, the law does not focus so much on architecture, but rather performs a series of terminological acrobatics to try to satisfy at the same time different schools that compete among themselves in the defense of the legitimate interests of their colleagues and professionals. But if you look in Google « architectural process services will find nothing, because it is not part of the linguistic convention and of normality, of the common. And that deserves reflection not only on the content of the law, but on how to legislate in itself. There is the principle of inclaris no fit interpretatio, which tells us that when things are clear there is no need to interpret them. In some parts of this law, however, a language that is not commonly used in society is used. What is to be attributed to this linguistic diacrony? Well, it is something that has been commented on during the presentation: "It is that we have granted it to other professional colleges. Our obligation as legislators must be to make good laws, clear, simple, useful laws. And that can lead to a political cost, which is not to satisfy the demands of all groups. Laws should not respond to the pressure exerted by any collective, but rather to reflection, analysis and the general interest. If a law of architecture is promoted it must be because we consider that architecture brings well-being to society and is of general interest. Although it can be said that the definition of architecture as value, not as a professional discipline, has ideological and subjective components. For William Morris, in the 19th century, "architecture encompasses the consideration of all the physical environment surrounding human life and which" is the set of modifications and alterations introduced on the Earth's surface in order to meet human needs. Later, Le Corbusier would say that "architecture is the wise, correct and magnificent play of volumes under the light. There is an open debate about what is and what is not architecture, and it will remain open, regardless of what the professional powers are, which do not fall under this law, as has already been said. In any case, architecture is the result of a work that begins in the design phase of the project and concludes with the execution of a work. In this process, different professionals and different professions are involved, and in Catalonia, as in the whole of Spain, we have great professionals very well trained and very competent. The advisor has already indicated this before, the last Pritzker prize has been won by a Catalan study, which is the RCR study, and this shows that that quality and competence of our professionals is well recognized. However, the image that political managers have projected of architecture for many years has been superficial, I would say pyrotechnic, more loaded with symbolism than with utility. The openings of the works carried out by star architects, symbols of the waste of an era, have created an image of frivolity and elitism of architecture that instead of contributing to the valorization of this discipline and to the professionals who participate in it, have given it the character of unnecessary artifice, errors that have more to do with the bad political decisions of the various governments than with the legislative framework. Perhaps that is why it seems that this law, in the chapter of general provisions, intends to amend the abuses of the past by referring to the positive values that architecture has. However, both in this section and in the proposals contained in Articles 6 and 7, for the dissemination of architecture and the promotion of architectural quality, they continue to have a more programmatic rather than regulatory character. And, therefore, they do not cease to be a declaration of good intentions. In fact, if this, instead of..., this law, instead of being a draft law, were to have the form of a motion for a resolution, the amendment that the group supporting the Government would have put before us would be to move the infinitives to gerunds, which the parliamentary groups already know: where it is "promote", "continue promoting", where it is "promote", where it is "promote", and where it is "promote", "continue promoting". In the end, much of the articles of this law could be a motion for a resolution, which, well, is that, a declaration of intent and it is something that could already be done, without the need for this law. That is why we, from Ciutadans, think that more than declarations of intent, what is needed are political and budgetary commitments. Are we going to improve the architectural quality of our neighbourhoods and cities by declaring good intentions or investing economic resources in specific projects? We think that by investing resources, so I'm going to remind you of some figures: in 2011, the budgets for the improvement of old neighbourhoods and cores were more than 85_million_de_euro. In the budget that was approved this year, Convergence, Esquerra Republicana and the CUP devoted 50_million less to these objectives; less than half of what was dedicated six years ago. Fifty-million differences are, by the way, those who have devoted themselves to their own heritage, which you do not even tax, do you? Because the improvement of neighbourhoods where mostly working-class people live is not one of their priorities. They have other priorities. A detraction of resources that reminds us of the enormous cynicism that separates the objectives that the Government claims to have from those that it actually pursues. Finally, comment that we have kept alive the amendments to the articles concerning the creation of new advisory bodies such as the Conseil de Qualitat Arquitectònica de Catalunya and the Local Administrations, as well as those concerning supplementary recruitment rules. Firstly, because we believe that the autonomous government has sufficient instruments to achieve the objectives of the law without the need to create new advisory bodies, while we believe that it could encourage greater participation of professionals in the sector, their associations and professional colleges to achieve them. With regard to the second, with regard to recruitment, we believe that it is better for the law to refer to the basic rules on public sector contracts, which are currently being discussed in the Congress of Deputies and which already allows for recruitment in accordance with the criteria set out in this draft law. So much so that in the presentation made by the Territorial Councillor and the Habitatge Councillor at the COAC, on the new competitions of the Incasòl, it was indicated that they would be carried out according to these criteria. We believe that, in order to avoid regulatory dispersion, legislative fragmentation and legal uncertainty, everything relating to public sector contracts should be reflected in unitary texts and not in sectoral legislation. And there is no doubt that such public procurement legislation needs to be improved. The perception that architects and other professionals in the sector have is that the competitions obey, end up obeying client networks and oligopolies that prevent fair and equitable competition. To conclude, reiterate Ciutadans' willingness to work in favour of improving the architectural quality of buildings, towns and cities. That is why we are not going to oppose this law, because we defend architecture, even if it is fundamentally a declaration of intentions; intentions and objectives that it is necessary to transfer to the laws that regulate territorial and urban planning that have allowed major urban disasters. Precisely because of this concern we will continue to denounce from this rostrum the cynicism of a government that expresses concern about the architectural quality and at the same time detracts resources from the humble neighborhoods to allocate them to their separatist project. Because it is very good for the Government, which has promoted this law, to say that it is concerned about the architectural quality of the places our fellow citizens live in, but is that consistent with its budget? Will they stop squandering resources by creating what they call "structures d'etat " or by repeating a new 9 - N? No, they're not. The Government of Puigdemont and Junqueras will continue to squander our money on a political project that divides society, money that could be used to improve the conditions under which architects and other professionals carry out their work, and therefore the improvement of the architectural quality, or the quality of health services, or the quality of education; without the need for new laws, a change in priorities, and therefore in public policies, is enough. As simple as that. Finally, I would like to thank the good will and work of the other Members who contributed and participated in the presentation, and of the individuals, entities and representatives of the professional colleges who appeared to give their opinion on the draft law during its proceedings. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.125.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanz. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.126.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Director General, representatives of the various professional colleges, the first moments of this intervention wanted to make them serve, while Councillor Santi Vila came out for a moment, to thank Councillor Santi Vila..., on the basis that he was the previous councillor of Territory and Sustainability, we want to recognize him the initiative of having pushed this advance draft of the law; a foreground that has re-entered the Parliament of the mother of Councillor Rull and that at the length of these months we believe that he has substantially improved his content, eh? , thanks also to the contributions of other professional colleges, thanks also to the contributions made by the municipalist entities of our country and to the work of all the deputies who have formed part of the ponència that in the end brought to this plenary the bill that we will approve today. It is clear from the text that will ultimately be put to the vote that architecture is a multi-disciplinary activity. We're not talking about this professional assignment bill today, we're talking about something else, right? Because the law has, from our point of view, a clear objective, which is to establish and define the public interest of architecture as one of the foundations for the state of welfare and social cohesion; also sustainable development, because we believe that these three vectors today are inseparable vectors. Therefore, it develops to the law, said the councillor, the deputy putting..., develops measures for the dissemination, for the promotion, for the education towards the architectural quality, as are the creation of this Council of Architectural Quality of Catalonia, that in the final writing that we have we feel recognized, or for example, the Catalonia Architecture Award, right? , or the specific impulse of concrete policies; puts into value the public interest of architecture, and incorporates architectural quality objectives both in public projects as in private projects, as in certain public works competitions. We believe that the objective of having an effective legal framework to help build a better future for our cities, by establishing incentives and incentives for architecture as well as public interest, is precisely to promote architectural quality in planning, projecting and implementing buildings and urbanisation in public spaces. And all this I think is done in collaboration with other professional colleges, that the first repairs to the pre-project were precisely because there was a certain suspicion about a certain reserve of professional assignments to the Architects' College, which is not produced and which I believe was not the initial intention of the pre-project, is it not? In fact, the European Union, I believe, gave it to Councillor Rull in his intervention, in the last few years has developed various directives and resolutions that put in value the contribution that architecture makes in the urban and rural surroundings of the countries, right? And I recommended introducing these questions into the legislation, into the specific legislations of each state. For the time being, only France has regulated it, and today the Parliament of Catalonia will also do so. And we need to recognize, and I want to do it from the Parliament's Faristol, the impulse, the effort and the toss of the College of Architects of Catalonia, and especially from its side, because this law today can be approved in the Parliament of Catalonia. It is true that at the length of these months we have given back on the utility or not of an architecture law in Catalonia; if I had heard, if the requests raised can be articulated with this law or through modifications of some other standards that are already in force. The fact is that the general interest of architecture, as it has been regulated, or as it will be regulated here today, is a vote, not covered by the other laws in force. This law will have to help to put into value the architectural quality and that the conjunction of the citizens, also of the administrations, tinguin..., and here I would like to refer to the intervention that the col·legi d'Arquitectes in their appearance in the poência, the Lord Comerón, emphasized: that the administrations, that the conjunction of the citizens have arguments of judgment that help us to value the buildings, the spaces, the cities, not with criteria of reversal, but with criteria of better of our way of life. I think this is the reflection of this law, or we could define the conjunction of the twenty-two more additional articles that the law has with this definition. This also emphasises the importance of improving public competitions, putting down the tools so that the economic criterion is not the main indicator. To this topic I will be allowed to refer a hair later, then, in a few moments, because they know that it was one of the points of discrepancy that my group respected this law. This law also seeks – and it seems to us that it does – to help reduce professional precariousness, not just of architects, but of the set of professionals who want to see architecture, eh? To tell you, of all ways, that the... I seem to have been told by Congressman Sergio Sanz, in his intervention, that the gene of this law arose at a time of uncertainty, of professional uncertainty, of economic uncertainty, which has affected many labor collections, eh? I believe that all the labor collections in this country, and that fortunately it seems that we have not come out. I would like to point out that, in the procedures regulated by this law, it must allow access to the professions or to the profession of young graduates, who sometimes have many difficulties in accessing above all part of the competitions that the public administrations do in this country. And let's get back to the contract themes. It is true that it seeks to strengthen transparency and publicity in the contract and that it is old for incorporation into the departures of the public works competitions of urbanization and building quality criteria, creativity and functionality respect the most economical themes. We have defended, the Socialist Group has defended in all the debate that, while sharing these criteria, we are more in favour of all these issues being regulated in the new public sector contract law than is currently being debated in this chamber and in the Congress of Deputies. Although we maintain these discrepancies and that we keep the extremities alive in the joint, I already announce to you, President, that we will withdraw the extremities that you continue to live. And we've asked for a couple of separate votes from some articles on these issues, in which we're going to abstain, huh? ; it is a abstention thinking that these issues should be settled with a single body in the Law on Public Sector Contracts. Finally..., and I take a few words from Councilman Rull, he says: "We want to please the country. So, yes, we want to please the country. From our point of view, today the social and cultural values of architecture cannot be separated from the great challenges that we have all societies. And one of the great challenges is how to cope with climate change and how we adapt to its consequences. It is no longer just a matter of thinking about the new barrels of our cities, how we build new residential and industrial buildings, how we get new equipment to get them to be zero-emission buildings for what makes greenhouse gases. We hope that in the Climate Change Law that we will approve at the length, also, of the very weeks, this objective that we have set in the Climate Change Law, that is that by the year 2025 all the projects of the new buildings incorporate these precepts and that they follow buildings of zero emissions, which have been granted in the law. But it is a matter, above all, not of thinking, that we will certainly do so, as we build the nine cities, as we build the new buildings, but rather of lowering emissions from the housing sector, thinking of the 2050 targets fixed at the climate change summits, the United Nations agreements that led to Kyoto. And this is where we have work to do: get the rehabilitation of the park built because there are also efficient buildings from an energetic point of view. You have the quality of this policy, too, don't you? , for this broad vision that must lead us to hold some people, some new cities, some barrels to our cities; therefore, the impulse of active policies that promote the energetic rehabilitation of the existing housing stock. The Catalan strategy for the energy renewal of buildings will have to give priority, from our point of view, to the accessibility and energy efficiency of buildings and habitats with the benefit of renewable energy, and cover the need for action, as at least 50 thousand annual habitats, as indicated by various resolutions of this Parliament and the climate change law as drafted at these times. And let's hope that from here to your approval is not modified down here, as it has happened in some..., or as it is in some other articles of that law. And it's here, deputies, deputies, councillors, where the architecture and construction sector have a phone book in the design and execution of these policies. And now, finally, we want this law to be used for all the objects we propose to us, which have been thought of since this Faristol, which are clearly reflected in the preamble of the law and in its articulation, and which, above all, helps to have a better quality environment in our country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.127.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. Next, to defend the reserved items of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Ms Hortênsia Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.128.0	President, Counsellor... Well, first of all, we welcome and thank the Director General of Ordenació, Mr. Augustine Serra, and his team; all representatives of the professional colleges – that I will not name you all, because I am many – that you have come today, but you have also helped us in the long..., you have helped us a lot in the appearances; the professionals of the sector that you accompanied us. Also especially to Mr. Lluís Comerón, with whom we have maintained a fluid relationship all this time, he has clarified our doubts and we have been able to work. I also want to thank the rapporteur and the co-rapporteur, Meritxell Roigé and Marc Sanglas, who have worked as well as the team, with the will to come to terms. And to the rest of the speakers: Sergio Sanz, who is more of the office, and I think he has helped us a lot in technical doubts; the Jordi Terrades, companions of other laws this legislature; the Santi Rodríguez, who with his veteranship and rigor I believe that... well, he has also been... well, he has helped me a lot. And I think it has been a luxury to enjoy the acquaintances and the goodness of the Father Sun, our reader, who has made it easier for us at all times when we can come to terms and transactions with the smallest renounces. Also the efficiency and the good work of the language councilwoman, Rosa Galvany, and the manager, Eva Vendrell. Having made the relevant thanks, I will try to explain, in essence, what was our contribution, that of Catalonia Yes it is Pot, to this bill of law and our position and feeling of voting to the issues of the rest of the groups that have not been recommended and that are still alive. Mirin, you said it, didn't you? But I think it's important to do this historic process. During the process of this law, at first, in March 2016, we did not support it, because we considered that it was a law that had been very much done to the dictate of some concrete interests and that there might have been a lack of participation, even though we recognize the Councillor Vila this effort to pull it forward, right? At that time we did not see the need for the law or its public justification, some of the contents. That's why we wanted to appreciate very positively that the government withdrew and started a process of consultation and negotiation with the different colleges that had expressed discomfort; I will not repeat them: economists, geologists, environment, politicians, equipers, etc. And he brought, on October 2016, he returned the text here, with a different proposal, that had softened this more modernized corporate character, and above all with the will – which the counselor has said – that during the process we could improve it and provide it with more elements of public utility. We, during the process of appearances, listened to all the contributions of the public contract experts, the colleges..., we learned a lot, and with these contributions and with the people of our surroundings we presented sixty papers to the text presented by the Government. From these sixty items, during the work of pomencing, we have withdrawn seven, and I think it's important to explain it, because some of us think that... For example, we always incorporated the concept of sustainability, didn't we? ; so, well, at the end it was redundant, because it was already incorporated in the preamble. Or also the concept of this, quality of the architectural process. Well, then, these were gone suppressing them. Others that we removed were articles of suppression, because during the work, therefore, we were able to arrive at transactions that collected in good measure our volunteers. Because, well, in a law, so, well... you never have the cent per cent you want, do you? It is, therefore, a matter of arriving at these possible agreements. For us, because it's important, the rest of the items have been incorporated into the project, and until the last moment we've been able to deal... well, today we've been able to make a deal. We believe that they are important, the contributions we have made, because, for example, they incorporate very strongly environmental issues and the concept of sustainability linked to building, building and maintaining buildings, and because they also include energy issues and coherence with the bill we are making, climate change, which we hope can be approved quickly, they will incorporate into the European directives so that our buildings, 2020, are of almost zero consumption. These questions, the important thing is that in law these questions appear as a value inherent in architecture. So we're no longer talking about the values of these, subject, are we? That, well, that's all right, like the beauty and all. No, no, here we have concrete, modern values, such as these, and which are more, in a way, quantifiable. Also a value that will be taken into account at the time of considering the bidding processes of public contracts and, therefore, which will be taken into account at the time of assessing the quality-price ratio. In the second chapter, we have also incorporated better, we have introduced better in the Council of Architectural Quality, therefore, incorporating more professional, parity, etc. For what he does to chapter three, which is what many have referred to and which is related to contracting standards... And what we also have to say: this was one of the most controversial issues during the questioning, during the work, because all the groups had preventions that this chapter did not end up implying an administrative overload or adding complexity to the contracting process, that already in itself, the architectural bidding processes, already in themselves are complex. And, moreover, that you did not contradict, precisely, with all the public contract law that today is being debated in the Congress, for example. I think the text, in the end, with the transactions, has improved. Or, it has improved: we clarify the methods of contracting, we concretely define the criteria for evaluating the technical proposals and the guiding values to be taken into account; we improve the whole issue of jury composition and standards of functioning; interdisciplinaryity; it reinforces advertising and transparency, and, above all, it leaves more room for joint meetings, by giving preference and non-binding character – that this was something that we discussed a lot in the debate – at the joint call of the draft and direction of works. So I think the text has improved. The conditions for participation in tendering procedures have also improved, because there is real and effective competition and they can participate in equal conditions, therefore, young professionals, cooperatives or small layoffs that begin. Our willingness to respect these issues has been, above all, to preserve local autonomy; not to add more burden of work and complexity and measures that may discriminate against small groups, and that at the same time it is possible to develop the European directive that the price is not the only and determining criteria, that it has given nyaps, as the Councillor commented, and therefore it is possible to put into value other qualitative aspects, as required by all professionals. If these objects and this works in practice, then we can't know until the law is completed. If when the Law of Public Contract comes in, we have to change it, so, listen, you're changing it, and it's not happening. We've done it because we think this is better, and this is the will. In short, I believe that the Catalonian Group Yes, it is I can believe that we have brought our degree of smile to make a better law of architecture, not only for the professionals of the sector, that also, but also to advance, as it was suitable for the World Conference Habitat, to make some cities more equitable, sustainable, that recover to the public, that recovers the common good, in short, some cities or all of us can live more comfortably. And, with the time I'm left – quickly, president – I'm in a position to respect the views of other groups, because I want to explain it. We will not vote in favour of the Ciutadans papers which contradict or propose different contents, which, in our view, do not improve the negotiated text. And on the other hand, we will abstain from those that we consider that, even though they are not contradictory, we believe that they could have been incorporated, and in the end they have not been incorporated. No... well, I was going to say that we didn't vote for the two SCP items, but the Jordi Terrades said that they were withdrawn; so, nothing to say. Why do we think... the one who gave me a public contract, right? : that, now, the law gives answer to the requests of the collectius and can help to clarify the processes of architectural contracting in the different ways. If there's more to change, then we'll adapt the law. Last but not least – and this is what I want to explain to you, because no one is alienated – we will vote in favour of all the PP's reserved items, because..., as these fans refer, from the measures of disclosure of architecture..., add the concept of this, of the architectural quality adjective, and we liked this idea. And also because in the awards they incorporate a way for young designers, that we, therefore, also like the idea and we think it's interesting. Maybe more forward, Santi, so, it was done, these young projectors. And lastly, also, tell them that at the last moment we have made a deal– thanking him for putting it there, to the Meritxell Roige – so that the new Council of Architectural Quality of Catalonia can coordinate with the advice that already existed, of Quality, Sustainability and Innovation of Habitatge, which was created during the second tripartite Government and that, therefore, a little, we agree..., well, I think that it is a legacy, and therefore I think that it was good that the two of us could coordinate. So, well, very lucky, thank you very much, and we hope that the law works for everyone. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.129.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. In order to defend the reserved items of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, Mr Santi Rodríguez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.130.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, general director, representatives of professional colleges, people who accompany us and those who do not accompany us, but who have also participated in the elaboration and debate of this bill... so he also addressed them, all this debate. This is a bill that, since it was presented, our group has always valued it in a positive way. We tried to hear and interpret what the government was trying to do with the impulse of this bill; we also listened to the different professional collections, especially the College of Architects, their own, which was somehow not the impulse, and I think we perfectly understood what was the objective that was being pursued with the impulse of this bill. We are convinced that this is certainly an initiative that does not introduce much new from the point of view of legislation, especially in its first two chapters; in the third chapter, in the chapter that introduces elements for the public contract or criteria for the public contract, it does establish some new element, but surely there would not have been a need for a law to try to pursue the objectives that are pursued with this rule, that is, that it could have adopted government agreements with different ranks in order to accommodate the objective that pursues the law, which is somehow nothing more than to encourage and promote the architectural quality process. But in any case, we do value the fact that it is a law that we understand to be timely; it is certainly timely for the moment when it began to push this law, from the point of view of the fact that the situation in the construction sector in general and, therefore, also in the architectural creation sector – and I am not referring only to the situation in which a certain professional collection passed, only all the professional collections involved in this process –..., therefore, the draft of the law that it intended, in some way, is to put an additional element on the world of the table, which allows you to visualize new horizons and, therefore, also to give a new boost to the professional aspects that revolve around construction and architecture. For us, if we allow it, and in a simplified way..., because I believe that it is also what we have tried to pursue with the ideas that have been presented, with a significant amount of the ideas that have been presented and with some that will continue to be presented – if they allow me, anecdotically or symbolically, we want to keep them precisely to reinforce the character that we want to give them and we want to give them, to this law, and that we believe that, effectively, in its final wording it has this law – it is precisely to promote quality and to encourage architectural creativity, therefore to take away a little – to take away a little – the concept of architecture, which was interpreted, and is certainly interpreted, by a part of the professional collectivity, as well as a very specific profession. We're not talking about this. They don't want to talk about it. It is intended to speak of a sector of activity, of an area of activity which does not correspond solely and exclusively to a professional college, does not correspond exclusively to a professional specialty, but which corresponds to a joint venture, to a range of professional expertise which is involved in this process– architectural process, eh? Don't get it wrong. Precisely – precisely – the architectural creativity and architectural heritage is very characteristic of Catalonia and also very particularly of Barcelona. And with the law they claim, precisely, it is to project into the future new architectural initiatives that allow us to continue in this tradition. I said in the debate of totality... Now there is and there is, but I also value his presence, of the Councillor of Culture, in this debate; as the driving force behind the law when he was a Councillor of Territori, yes, but I believe that more still linked to his current responsibilities as a Councillor of Culture, because, ultimately, what we are, in some ways, is promoting an activity that later, in time, ends up being part of the culture, of the culture of our society, of the architectural culture and, therefore, we also value it from this point of view. And what is most relevant to this law, as I said, is the impulse of new architectural initiatives and, if I may say so, of the range of characteristics of the architectural heritage, I want to highlight one, which is what we understand to be the most innovative, certainly the one that can be most questionable – not by controversy, but by subjection – that is precisely the beauty and artistic interest of architecture. And that's what helps to enrich, precisely, the architectural culture. Among other more common features that form part of architectural creation, therefore, innovation, functionality, accessibility, the sustainability of the architectural process, the sustainability of the future maintenance of the new constructions have already been mentioned, but we stress, for the most part, the enrichment of architectural culture. And it is precisely this fact, all these characteristics, that requires that these architectural processes be professionally multidisciplinary, in a necessary way. And let us say it and note it, because it is precisely the criticism that has been rejected, or the most important criticism that has been rejected by different collections, because it has been interpreted, someone has seen that it was intended to promote a certain professional collection, that it is that of the architects, and we understand, from our parliamentary group we have understood from the very first moment that it cannot be or is this, and more so I say it pertains to a professional collection of those that may be considered potentially affected by a law that has a certain objective towards a professional collection. On the contrary, we see the law addressed to the set of professional collections that participate in architectural processes and, ultimately, a law that must go to the benefit of the set of society. And because this is very clear, we celebrate the incorporation of a theme that our parliamentary group presented, but in any case it forms part of the law, and I think that it is very clear, very concise and very robust to say strictly what it says, that it is: "This law – I read it literally: final provision –" does not imply, in any case, any reserve of activity, any expansion or restriction of skills at the professional level, nor alters the powers conferred on them by the laws in force. And I believe that with this final disposition, with this writing, all the doubts that may be related to the impulse of this law are made clear. We will give full support to the text that came out of the debate and with the incorporated documents. Do we share the entire text of the law with the cent_per_cent? No, no, There may be some elements that may be more or less questionable. I have a case, and more so, of an article that we have dealt with from a point of view of our parliamentary group, which is the fact that the government can establish construction-oriented values and that..., also with the collaboration of the professional college. We asked for the abolition of the Orientation Value Establishment, but also with the collaboration of the College of Architects, so we came to this deal, saying: "Select, according to the reference prices, which are already published on the market and, therefore, it is not a matter of inventing absolutely nothing, but it is a matter of following the orientation that already exists on the market, is it not? And, therefore, I believe that there has been this good will, there has been this good understanding, which in the present times, therefore, is already to be highlighted and has an intrinsic value in itself. And for this reason our group will give full support, as the gods did, to the conjunction of the law. We keep some stuff; I told them before, it's almost anecdotal, it was when Mrs. Grau said she would give support to our stuff, and I went over it and said, "Let's see if this gives me any real problems. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But what they intend to put into evidence these items, I insist, symbolically, is precisely this reinforcement of the character that the one who pursues this law is the architectural quality, and the items go that way. And it's true that the reviews also refer to the Catalonian Architecture or architectural quality award, which is how we propose to put it. And, even so, with this young variety. But in any case, as far as the law that it does is to derive from a regulation the establishment of the bases for the creation of this prize, we are convinced– and so it is also said – that there is the possibility, of course, of establishing variants of this prize, and one of them, obviously, is the young one, which we have incorporated into a coin. Therefore, I insist, we keep the papers, but we consider that the text of the law is quite uncertain. Finally, we appreciate the contributions of all professional colleges – all – both those that have been favorable contributions and have been contributions to enrich the text of the law as contributions from those who have been most reluctant, those who have seen the most problems in approving this law. I am convinced that all the professional colleges, all the voices that we have heard, have helped to improve this law and, therefore, for a time that the government has brought us a law that does not go through processes or state structures or things like that, I will not be the one to expand it and, therefore, I will finish the position of our parliamentary group. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.131.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, to fix his position, has the word "Mr Sergi Saladié", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.132.0	All right, thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. We've already told the whole question as CUP - It's a claim that we didn't just see this bill clearly or usefully. And, at the end of the appearances and the debate in ponència – here less, because we did not present papers and we did not participate almost people of this debate – we reiterate these positions. From the appearances, carried by the promoters– the College of Architects plus a few other collegiates that later joined it–, we did not perceive any enthusiasm with the law nor did we detect that it was an aspect neither urgent nor necessary and therefore, as we say, we repeat ourselves in these initial positions. First, because we understand that it does not integrate, this law, into the logic of territorial planning. It cannot be or cannot be understood that at a time when we here in Parliament should be dealing with the Law of Territories, which should encompass aspects of territorial planning, urban planning, while also considering the landscape dimension, we are here dealing with a small part of this whole logic of the planning process, the final part, the part of the finishes, the part of the quality of our constructions. And we understand that this debate should be totally intertwined with this macro debate that we should have and that we do not have here in Parliament, because the government has not brought this law, and now it has presented the preliminary draft. Why, as we will know if there is good architectural quality if we have not previously defined what is territorial quality and urban quality? Second, while we are still more cooperative, the Catalan Competition Authority warned, with the Regulation Report 23/2016, of the contradiction that could be assumed by this law with other public procurement procedures, and we have not seen that there has been another review report of those positions. Thirdly, at a time when we are moving towards administrative simplification, we understand that this law will introduce elements of confusion. For example, with the Technical Building Code, which is of Spanish matriculation and competence, where it starts from the building. And the question is: why in a moment of disconnection with the Spanish State did the government not bet to process a proper building order law with its own building technical code? Maybe they're still there, aren't they? These romantics of autonomist tics we have in the government. Four, we seem too much to create a law or to make a law to create the architectural prize or even to create the Council of Architectural Quality. We think that this with a decree or an order would be enough and that in case you can only have a certain feeling, but we don't think you have to process a law to settle these two questions. Five, we maintain the position that we think that this law can encourage restricted competitions for the key projects in hand with the risk of excluding architects or professional collections with lower economic capacities, thus favoring professional elites. If, as we proved during the appearances, it is a law that does not count on the support, or at least with all the enthusiasm of all the professional collections involved in the process of architectural quality. And in this sense, therefore, various colleges such as Geographers, or Biòlegs, Ambientòlegs, Politòlegs and Sociòlegs and Industrial Engineering were very critical with their interventions. Thus, perhaps this will be a law that will improve the self-esteem of some architects who are very touched by the crisis, but which will hardly contribute, from our point of view, to solving the territorial, urban and architectural problems that we have in the country. At the same time, we also think that there was a previous danger of giving cover to a demand for a concrete collection– initially, let's say, it was only supported by the College of Architects; as we said, after they joined other professional colleges– and, from then on– we already said on the day of the debate to the totality–, they might begin to enter requests to make readings to measure, therefore, of engineering, biology, medicine or even of the pastry or of the pastry. For us this law will not cover the lack of self-criticism of what has been done badly until today. From our point of view, this law will not serve nor should it serve to pass pages or tips and, as we say, without self-criticism of the poor architectural quality of all these past years. Therefore, from our point of view and from our political action, we will continue to insist on the need to project territories from the decline, deconstruction, rehabilitation, recycling and repair. We will not endorse the continuation of it growing urbanically for much that is now under the patina of architectural quality. Because it is very curious that architectural quality is now demanding, 2017, and not 2001 when the Council of Europe Resolution of 12 February on architectural quality was approved. Why wasn't this architectural quality claimed? Maybe it's that you were or we were all folded into the real estate bin that didn't let us think or see clearly. In summary, let us continue to affirm that we seem to be a law that is timely, vague, confused, unjustified, unnecessary, inconsistent and that introduces more doubts, more than not in solution. Let us therefore reiterate our position on a law which we do not consider necessary or useful and for this reason we shall vote 'no to the opinion and to the conjunction of the reserved items, carried by those which are of deletion of articles, obviously, in order to maintain our coherence. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.133.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Saladié. The words of Mrs Meritxell Roigé, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.134.0	Thank you, President. I am now speaking on behalf of my parliamentary group and I am obviously beginning to show my satisfaction with the approval of this law today, a law which, as I have explained earlier, did not have an easy start, but which has ended up being a reality thanks to the joint work carried to the end of the last months. And, therefore, the fruit of that work, today we have a law that counts with a broad consensus. I thank this consensus again, not only politically, but also the different professional colleges that you have participated in. And it is a law that, as the Councillor has explained, has as its main objective to put in value the architecture as well as public interest; a law that distinguishes the architecture as a fundamental good for the progress of our country, and at the same time a law that wants to preserve the architecture as immaterial good of social and cultural interest. Therefore, we are in front of a law that exposes the result of the architectural process and it is clear that there are different disciplines in this process. That's why we wanted you to make it clear that this law, and the counselor also said it, in any case it was neither a law of the architects nor a law only for the architects; it is a law designed for all spheres, for all professional disciplines participating in the field of the construction process. That's why at the time we put up with it, we re-thinked it, we talked about it again with all the professional colleges, and here there was an important task for the councillor, so that we could reach timely agreements with all the professional colleges so as to improve and incorporate those things that were being asked. That is why we also wanted to make clear to the text, to the joint, that in any case this law does not imply nor will it imply any reserve of activity, enlargement, or restrictions of skills to the professional collection. Because that's what we're looking for and that's what we've done for good. Therefore, this is a law that we wanted to respond primarily to a commitment of the Government, the Administration, with the good practices of the architectural process, a real commitment to quality. The councillor has previously given examples of what bad architecture is. And that's what we have to leave behind: we can't afford projects that leave our cities, our towns in terrible conditions for the city of now and for the city of the future. The object of today's text we approve, therefore, places in value the public interest of architecture, does not ensure preservation as cultural and social heritage and also as a fundamental asset to guarantee the welfare of people and social cohesion. It is, therefore, intended to give importance to what we are building, to what is rehabilitated from a quality point of view. We are talking about improving the spaces, the buildings, the place where people live and where they relate, where the human activity of the people and cities of our country is developing. Therefore, the law is concerned with the correct definition of public spaces, the social, cultural, environmental dimensions of streets and squares, and the relationship with private spaces. To absolve this situation the law puts in value the architectural process as a public interest to preserve the architecture. In this way, the law seeks to change the situation that we are living in many public activities, making it follow quantitative criteria, quality and giving importance also to the environmental and social criteria of architecture. And we did not want to forget, beyond highlighting and valuing the public role of architecture and urbanism, the fact that these values must become fundamental to the welfare and social cohesion, introducing into the law those concepts that also emerged from the comparisons, such as the fact of environmental improvement, energy efficiency, the reduction of gases with winter-life effects as elements close to our identity with the country. The Law of Architecture, therefore, which we are bearing today under consideration, has finally been structured into three chapters. The first of these, relating to general provisions, relates the object of the law, determines its public interest. And in this sense, highlight article 4, we reiterate that the public administrations of Catalonia have the duty to disseminate and promote the architectural creation of this area of public interest. And this is not only for this will to seek the quality and public interest of our country, a will of the Government, but also not from the different resolutions and recommendations of the European Union, which advise to promote architectural quality as a tool of cohesion, highlighting the added value that the sector brings. And in that, too, before it was mentioned, we wanted to be pioneers. Only France, of the European mark, goes to the front. And, therefore, once more in Catalonia, we must be proud to tend, to be pioneers, to lead this project. The chapter below sets out the measures of dissemination of the architecture, the impulse of architectural quality from measures of diffusion, awareness, knowledge of the architecture by the Administration. And, therefore, instruments are established to optimize the architectural process from the quality point of view. And it recognizes the best contributions to architecture with the creation of these Catalonia awards in the field of architecture and built heritage. We also highlight the establishment of jurors, of committees of experts to act in the contracting processes, with the Council of the Architectural and Urban Quality of Catalonia, and also those consulting bodies that would act after the local administration. And then we find chapter three, which deals with the general provisions of the contract and establishes the composition, the functioning of the juries and the committees of the competitions of ideas in order to guarantee this multi-disciplinary presence that we have said since the beginning. Therefore, this project also reinforces transparency in advertising and contracting, for incorporation into the departures of the public work of urbanization and building criteria of quality, creativity, functionality, which will be evaluated by a jury, and also beautiful, as discussed. Therefore, this bet to make the qualitative criteria prevail over economics at the time of evaluating competitions, contracting processes and areas of architecture and public procurement, thus following one of the objectives of the law. And that's also what we find in the whole contract process. We understand that there should be a specificity, and therefore, if we were to allow ourselves, we would like to take this step, that there should be a separate contract regulating the specificities for which, for example, it makes the acceptance of variants or better of the architectural project in works contracts; also in the joint contract, in the elaboration of projects and execution of works, and in the concession of construction and execution of works of the architectural process. Therefore, these methods have the objective of guaranteeing and promoting a tender and thus promoting the architectural quality that is established in the law. And I would also like to point out at this point that we have made a contribution for such power... that it will encourage this effective, real competition, this free access to the real equality of conditions through the participation of those little miscarriages, of those people who just started the licentiate, the degree, young professionals and other collections. And today I don't think I'm going to answer the Members who preceded me, especially Deputy Sergio Sanz or Deputy Sergi Saladié, I think it's not the day, it's not near; today it's time, one day, to celebrate that we have a law. But in any case, I don't think I was looking to call this law to any process that wasn't the architectural process of creation. And in no case do we understand that this law at the end has not counted with enough consensus; it only needs to see all the people who have appeared to it and all the people who have contributed to it. So, to conclude, this is a necessary law for many of the aspects already explained, but above all because we believe that we need to look forward to when we intervene in a public space; we need to think in terms of quality and in terms of the future; what and how a building will be, a space in a future; what they will think of those who created it. And that's why we have tools, tools that give us the administration of possibilities to provide architecture and urbanism with values that today more than we can ever preserve. The whole law's objective must be to improve the quality of life of people, and in this case we take a step further by providing a suitable environment, safe, accessible, compatible with beauty and artistic interest. And for this reason, we center our speech on what makes this law in the public interest of architecture, with the aim, in short, of moving forward in a country that is based above all on quality criteria, because quality must be the way if we want to build cities, towns and towns friendly to the citizen. And now, yes, I ended up with the graces that I left me for at the end of my intervention. Thank you, Counsellor Rull; thank you, Director, Agustí Serra; to all the staff of the department, to create, to push, to carry out a law like this; a law like this, like the Law of Architecture, would not have been possible without the will of a government, of a councillor, who believes that the Administration must age for quality and must drive an architecture and a built heritage based on this quality if we want to have a country that acts in terms of the future and that seeks to preserve its surroundings. Thank you too, Director, to all your team, which has been at your disposal. And here I would like to make a special mention of the architect Lluís Laguna, who is also here today, who has not been an essential part of the law, and who, without his help, without his daily support, above all the last days that we have been closing the different items, transactions, articulated, today we will not have the text we have approved. Thank you, therefore, for your support to the length of all these months. And I leave by the end the College of Architects, with a special grace to his side, to Mr. Lluís Comerón. Thank you, Lluís, for your work, insistence, perseverance and above all for the passage carried to term in this law, which has been very, very much. When we didn't seem to get out of it, we started again and kept working together, all folded together, with all colleges, so that we could pull this law forward; a law that has finished seeing the light, a law that is the fruit of the joint work of all and that is a law of all and for all. Thank you, too, at your meeting. It commends all the pleas for this law, a law that, above all, will enable us to build a better country. Many thanks, ladies and gentlemen; thanks, counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.135.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Roigé. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. [[Long break.]] I am referring to the separate vote that the parliamentary groups have put forward, and we shall vote in the first place on the reserved items of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. We're voting for Emena number 30. The vote begins. The item number 30 was rejected by 36 votes to 86, with 11 abstentions. We will continue to vote on items 31, 46, 78, 83, 86 and 100. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 25 votes to 97, with 11 abstentions. We'll continue to vote for item 71. The vote begins. The item 71_was rejected by 25 votes in favour, 86 against and 22 abstentions. We will then vote on the items 66, 103, 110, 125, 127 and 132. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 34 votes in favour, 99 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on items 57, 73 and 93. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 25 votes in favour, 108 against and no abstentions. Then we vote on the transactional issue with the issue number 53, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. The vote begins. The item was approved by 99 votes to 34, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote for the 171th issue of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 22 votes to 95, with 16 abstentions. We will continue to vote now on the reserved items of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. We shall therefore vote on items 49, 50, 52, 54, 61 and 172. The vote begins. The statements were rejected by 22 votes to 71, with 40 abstentions. And then we will vote on the text of the opinion. We shall vote in the first place on Articles 12 and 14 of the opinion. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 82 votes to 34, with 16 abstentions. We now vote on Articles 9, 10, 15, 18, 19, 20, 21 and 22 of the opinion. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 98 votes to 34, with no abstentions. Finally, we now vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The Architecture Bill was approved by 98 votes to 9, with 25 abstentions. [[Perlongats applause.]] [[Question to the Government on the Tax Agency of Catalonia]] [[300-00185/11]] The eighth item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on the Tax Agency of Catalonia, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word the lady Alicia Romero. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, please, so we can start or continue. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Romero, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.136.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, vice president, deputies and deputies. Today, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, my group, wants to ask the Government about the Catalonia Tax Agency. It is a subject that we have dealt with on other occasions, it seems to us to be a very important subject because, in the end, it is about the recaptancy that the Government of Catalonia does or has in relation to the taxes that are given and the taxes that are favourable, that are the competences, therefore, that at these times it has the agency. It's 1,400_million euros we receive each year, and it seems to us that it's a pretty important xifra as we give the maximum relevance to this topic. The Law of the Tax Agency of Catalonia was approved in 2007– because we all have a situation– because this agency managed the taxes that are appropriate and given away; the ones that are appropriate are, among others, the ones that are approved of the sugary drinks, which will be managed from July 1– we will see how, in what way and if we get out of it– and the others are the taxes that are given away, they are the ones that give way to the State: taxation of estates, transfers of assets, etc. These were decided at the time that we managed them indirectly through the liquidating offices of the property registrars, that they were already from a history, right? Okay. To the change that was made in the year 2015 of this law we have already accepted and we have wanted, many parliamentary groups, that this indirect management that is done through the liquidating offices internalizing. That is to say, the year-old gradually managing – I think he said, after all, that article, "progressively" the Tax Agency of Catalonia. Okay. The Government, which, since 2010– the Government of Convergence and Union, with the support of the Republican Left – had done nothing for the deployment of the agency, had not assumed any more competitions, has now taken hold of it; we are in a hurry, you know, that it is a very well-known hashtag. So, with this rush, the government decides to break the agreement, the agreement with the liquidating offices, which has generated an administrative content between the property registrars and the tax agency and this government, and manage it directly by the tax agency. And to this, from the start, we agree, we can't be against this; with what we don't agree is how things are done in this government, and we have said it many times: it's not what, it's how. It is that there was that so fantastic slogan that we all share the "well done work has no borders, a very Catalan slogan, and it turns out that you, Mr. Junqueras, have thrown it to the ground. Because, if there's anything wrong with it, it's things. Don't they do things right? They're not good, they're not rigorous, they're not clean. And, of course, from the point of view of legality, we're already beginning to doubt it in a very clear way. But, well, we're worried about this part of what you're doing, and we're worried about the part of what you do and don't explain to us. The President has already said that it is very normal not to explain things here in Parliament. They explain it all the time: to conferences of the ANC, to conferences and to presentations of books, but here, to Parliament, no. And it seems that you want, on the 2nd of October, petitions that ask, pass what passes, that the agency would tax pass to manage all the taxes that are collected in Catalonia. And says, Mr. Turull: "Yes, and so much, yes, yes. If it seems to me they're stunning your object. How are we gonna do this? What? Because what they don't stop doing is fooling people. And I don't want to be with him anymore, do I? But what they do is trick people in a systematic way. And, frankly, we think that in your parliamentary office you should be, as a minimum, a little more serious. You say..., you say that the government's will is that September 1st the tax agency manages all taxes surrendered. That's what they told us by active and passive. To manage them, at these times, these tasks make them three hundred people to the liquidating offices, which, somehow or otherwise, so you have to hire them. Until today, with an answer from the Secretary of the Hisenda of the Government, a few days ago, he tells me that they have only provided seventy of the three hundred places that we would have to have in order to be able to do this management, and it is true that a new selection process has now been opened to contract us 270 more. And here I want to put up with a little bit, because then I'll talk about your October 2nd will, but now I want to focus on the September 1st, which I seem very relevant. Look, you're doing some in-between procedures, analyzing the resume, and doing a little bit of proof. And here people come in as they go into the tax agency. We don't think it's the best system to get into the agency, especially to incorporate more than three hundred people, but you've decided that. We don't have... there's no publicity, no transparency in the results of the evidence. We would like – I hope that we can make it clear to the young lady – for you to remain transparent, for when there is evidence there to be results, for the people to know who are the people who have passed the tests and not. There is no information from the tax agency to the web and there is no information, the unions tell us not to inform them; but, beyond that, it is that the people who are present do not have knowledge. Look, there's been no drag contest. Why didn't the transport contest take place? I mean, I know a person who lives in Sant Feliu de Guíxols and I work in the Free Zone and now they're putting me in an office closer to home, so they can't make me a process of...? , a transport contest because I can work more towards my home, and I have a priority as the tax agency's office. Ah, so, they didn't run a transport contest. They don't know mass for what. Then there is another issue that we are very concerned about and which has to do with this law, which is probably the law of the tax code. You insist here that they file lawsuits between 2008 and 2014 against tax authorities and that they can only present officials of the Generalitat. And my question is: these three hundred interims that will now enter, that we will form them... – also now I will enter into how –, that we will form them, that they will take over an expert, that we will then accompany them so that we will not let them present them because what you say the law is that "they can only present you exclusively from the Generality to these tributary things?" To me, to explain to me all this work that we will do with these people of formation, of knowledge, of experts... where shall we throw it? The brush? Jo, honestly... Besides, there's a ruling from the Constitutional Court, but how you don't care about it, how you say you can't do this, how you can't decide that only certain things are presented in some places, but how they don't, they've put it back into the law. Well, that's great! But I'd like you to answer to that, Mr. Junqueras, that I don't know..., I hope you're listening to me, because I see that you're reading – I hope you're listening to me – because you'd want to answer, because I ask you very clear questions: these three hundred people who now come in as interns and then they won't be able to file lawsuits, will we join them? And we're gonna brush this talent, this expert and this band we've done? And I'm in with the band. With the answer given to me by Mr. Salvadó, he said that on July 17 they would start working these nearly three hundred people. Some will come prepared, because they will surely come from the liquidating offices, some of them will surely pass the processes, but some others may not. They said you, too, because you don't officially know, nor did they tell me this answer from Mr. Saved, that they will do an online training. Does it seem, or does it, the best formula for making a formation to those who have to meet people who go with their self-liquidation of the inheritance or transmission tax, making an online formation because September 1st are prepared to attend to the people? I'd also like that to be explained to me. On August 31st, you will secure access, the access key to the programs' liquidating offices. That is to say, on September 1st, the only ones who can access, therefore, self-liquidation, etc., are the nine offices that you believe, much less than there were: of fifty-three we go to the dinosaur. Will you be able to guarantee us that September 1st will be all at once – all at once? And two, can you assure me that you will prove the cent_per_cent of the consignors, as is now proven by the liquidating offices? Can we prove it to the cent_per_cent? Because if there is one very effective thing to fight against fraud is to prove the cent_per_cent of shippers; it's to say, self-liquidation. Can we guarantee that this will be done by the tax agency? That's some clear questions, huh? I'd like you to answer that. You have also said in media, conferences, etc., that they would like you very much..., in a very short period of time the presentations remain telematic. I... would like to know... would my group like to know when they have this date, when they have the date that the presentations are telematic? Because that's very uplifting. First, because at these times – I'm talking about the offices, because they're the ones who do the job – the offices advise the people. I mean, imagine a widow of eighty years who carries the self-liquidation of her estate tax, this person normally asks for advice, they get it, they explain it..., that lady feels comforted with that attention given to her. Now it turns out we're going to be telematics, and that person is going to lose this advice? No, huh? Mr Junqueras, no, of course not, because you have created, with the Law of the Tax Code, figures that are the fiscal intermediaries, the tax advisors, to whom you give a very relevant paper throughout this process. In the end, you know, we had a suspicion and we just confirmed it with all the processing of this code: you do what you do is privatize a service as an advisor. That is to say, the liquidating offices do an advisory; now you do the internalization. They will not make this advice because, among other things, they will telematically make self-liquidations present. Some advices may be yes, but very few, not those that would do to the fifty-three offices that there were distributed throughout the territory, and they will tell this eighty-year-old lady that what she has to do is go to a tax advisor and that he, and that he paid him, is clear. Therefore, we privatize a servant. This is the doubt we have and every time – every time – we have it more confirmed. I would appreciate it if you were also to pronounce on this telematic element, because it is key – it is key – to see if these tax advisors, these tax intermediaries, actually hold the key role that you give them in this law. You say, "We have to move from a model," you say, "not punish a collaborator. To a collaborator to do what? Because there are good tax advisors, yes, but there are some who have brought people to Soto del Real. Therefore, it counts – it counts – because these tax intermediaries we keep them in the tax council while we remove from the composition of the tax council unions and employers. I don't know if it's that employers and unions are more suspicious than tax advisors. Anyway, these were some questions. I have many more, but I would really like, Mr Junqueras, that in this question you were concrete. The cost, sometimes, but I would like it to be concrete because, from here, we can also act and keep asking and, in any case, if not, congratulate it, it is that things are actually doing much better than we suspect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.137.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.138.0	Good day to everyone another time. Thank you, President. Mrs Romero, let's start the intervention so that, so, I'm gifted for happiness, because we're actually doing a lot better than you say. Because you see here, you ask us a battery of questions, you give the answer that seems more appropriate to these questions and then, as if I gave you those answers, you say: « See – how right I am! But if I haven't answered what you were asking. In any case, although we have done so in infinity of occasions, because this debate we have held and we have kept it in question, questions, etc. Therefore, the first thing we want to do is to resume the debate on the deployment of the tax agency in the matter of tax settlement. It seems to us that it is a very opportune time to resume this debate, because we find ourselves in the final line of this phase of the Catalan History Deployment Process, which we have already explained to you on many occasions and which has been confirming exactly what we explained to you since the first day. Therefore, we appreciate the interest in the issue, we know that it is a very sensitive issue and that you, therefore, identify the importance of this issue, and we celebrate that we have the opportunity, therefore, to explain ourselves and to discuss it again. The government has proposed it – you already know, because I insist that we have discussed it on many occasions – it has proposed as an objective for this legislature to transform the Catalan heritage into a strategic tool for the country, to raise it within the existing competition framework and to transform it into a highly efficient and competitive agency to manage any kind of tax, which is what we are doing. It was a very tight calendar, and you, just for that, because it was very tight, said: "Watch out, it's very tight. And we said: "Yes, it is adjusted but we are sure that we will complete it. And we actually complement it, let's just say. Therefore, the calendar was very tight. We were complete, it wasn't easy to complete. It has been possible thanks to the efforts of many people, as well as yours, who with their questions have always helped us and encouraged us, therefore, to do the job as you wish, I am convinced that this is the commitment of the Government, of the whole Government, of the areas of the Administration that have undertaken to make it possible. In fact, you know, everyone knows that until recently, unlike most of the autonomous communities, the Government of the Generalitat, which was responsible for the deployment of its functions, which are in its own right, allocated more resources to the Administration of the State than to the Administration of the State. In concrete terms, in 2014, for example, the Catalonia Tax Agency carried out a presupposition of 25_million euros, while in order to develop its functions it paid 35 to the State Administration, in addition to the state tax agency and the property registers. And another given also in this same line: in 2014 the ATC had three hundred workers while the State allocated four hundred to do the joint functions of the Government of Catalonia, of the tax agency. Therefore, we now have three great reptes, three great objects with this strategic character, and you have also had occasion to debate it on various occasions. The first, to become the tax administration of reference in our country, with an administration that provides tax services to the Catalan administrations; an administration that generates synergies and promotes a cooperative network of tax administrations that allow us, like the country, to be more clean, more efficient and more effective in collecting taxes, that I am convinced is the objective that we all have to raise. In this context, we are expanding the coverage of Catalonia's Tributes, incorporating nine local tax administrations. For example, we work with the objective that September 1st the coverage of Catalonia's Tributes pass 55_per_cent that we had with the four diputations up to 85_per_cent of the Catalan population, with 160 offices in the umbrella of the shared tax window. We also work to ensure that, in September, the tax agency becomes the tax processor of the public sector of the Generalitat and of all the public institutions of the country that solicitize it, because it seems to us that it is very relevant, very essential, that a corporation like the Government of Catalonia, that it is majority citizens with one hundred and forty public entities and enterprises and that it has a total of 230,000 workers, with a corporate policy and centralized in tax management The second objective is to make the jump to the 21st century for what it does to technology and organizational culture. In this sense, we want to implement the digital transformation of the tax agency, as well as become a referent organ in the fight against fraud. And today we have had occasion to remind him of the Citizens' Group's question; we have been able to remind them of the good work we are doing in this sense. The fight against the fraud, said, and the impulse of a new model of relationship with the contributor and with society, so to do so with greater proximity. To implement this objective, a new information system is unfolding – you are also aware of it; in fact, the whole chamber is, because we have explained it here on countless occasions – and better where it already exists, which will allow us to make a very important leap in relation to citizens and tax administration, from a front office designed on the specific requirements of each segment of taxpayers, with the aim of making the compliment of tax obligations simpler, huh? You set an example, that I understand that it was an example that wanted to touch us, somehow, the fiber; indeed, it touches us, because we always have it very sensitive in all social and personal issues and, therefore, I am pleased to be able to tell you that we are precisely designing it to respond to what you put forward, giving an important boost to the processing and the telematic payment of taxes, starting from the best of the technological platform, as well as the analytical and predictive tools in the fight and detection of fraud. In the third place – the third objective – we want to exhaust the autonomous competition mark and prepare the Catalan Administration to assume in the future we reptes in tax matters. In this instance, the Government's objective is to have a late deployment of a fundamental part of the tax system, such as executive recapturing, and to achieve this objective we are developing a new software made to measure, incorporating and forming new personnel – you make reference to it – we have approved a new organizational structure to take over the new functions and the territorial deployment, and in September we will start to manage the executive of the Catalan Transit Service – which you also know because we also have occasion to explain it here on various occasions – from the entire public sector of the Administration of the Generality and of those local administrations that voluntarily charge it, as in the case of Barcelona, which is, of course, an example. In order to achieve these three objectives, which I have just reminded you, we need to push forward four major transformation processes. The room isn't familiar either, because we've been following them with all sorts of detail along these months. The first, the deployment of human resources, the territorial deployment, the technological transformation, the technological deployment and, finally, the deployment of the set of tools that allow us to manage the change. For what it does to human resources, you make reference and I would like to bring it very concrete, because I do not find it missing, in any case, concrete in the intervention. For what it does to the deployment of human resources, I said, it is due in time to cover the new functions to develop on behalf of the tax agency and for the same Secretary of Hisenda and for the Tax Area of the CTiTI. The ATC has moved from the 320 principle workers of the project deployment to the current 470, with 750 in September and 800 in late. Beyond incorporating the template to take over the executive recap and to strengthen the cross-cutting structures of the agency, the bulk of the staff that we are incorporating is going to cover the management of assigned taxes on the territory, function that until the end of agos develop the property registers, as you also know. We incorporated, during the first quarter, fifteen of the divided workers planned in the Valldoreix recording centre of the property register. In the selection processes planned for the territorial deployment, due to completion in the first half of 2017, twenty-two more workers have been incorporated in advance to the liquidation offices to cover reinforcement, structure or executive replenishment functions. During the next few weeks we will have the results of the staff selection tests – your reference – that we will incorporate at the end of July to cover the new offices with 276 new places for which we have had 4,800 requests – 276 places that we will cover from the 4,800 rebuttal requests. From these, and according to the possibility to participate in various job offers, 220 applications come from the staff of the liquidating offices, for which, overall, of the 200 people who will work, 290 who will work liquidating taxes, proving and recording from the registers of the property and goods, will have presented themselves to work at the ATC some 250– an 85_per_cent–, a very high amount of money held that some of them per year did not suit this transaction, or others who have received offers to stay where they were as a result of the increase in the activity of the property registers at this time, let us say, eh? I am sure that you will want some clarification added, I understand, even though I also understand that everyone has had an answer on various occasions; but in any case, it will be a pleasure, as always, to make it clear to any doubt that he has respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.139.0	Thank you, Vice President. Then there's the word "Mrs. Alicia Romero."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.140.0	Look, Mr. Junqueras, you made me a Rajoy. [[Rialles.]] What I'm talking about, I'm talking about, I'm talking about not saying anything, let's just say it, shall we? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I didn't miss it. Home, Mr. Rajoy, I'm sorry, he's a serious and respectable Mr. Rajoy, huh? But he has a way of doing things where he talks a lot and doesn't explain anything. That's all right. It's the same thing you do. Look, he didn't answer me why the interns, if they could then present themselves to the definitive evidence of tax agency seats. He did not explain to me why they do not publish it and have more transparency in the proceedings; why no translation contests have been held. He didn't explain to me what I asked him about online training, about whether you would guarantee the cent_percent of the proof of the consignors, about whether he would still be at 1 September. Anyway, you say you've answered a lot of questions. They must have prepared many things, but the concrete answers to my questions did not do them to me. I know it's hard, Mr. Junqueras, I appreciate it very much, but you didn't challenge me. Look, we have a few doubts; many, I have said, many questions that have been unanswered. And it's true that we've been arguing and we've been contesting things, but we're still having a lot of doubts. Look, more than September 1st, that we don't think we're in time, that we're not ready, and that's gonna mean hard recap, I mean, we're getting around 1,200, 1,400_million euros, and not recap it all can be a problem. You talk a lot about fighting the tax fraud, but there is no better fight against the fraud than proving a hundred_per_cent of the consignors entering the agency. He's not telling me either, if that's what we're gonna guarantee. This is fighting the fraud; don't say we're doing the object or... No, listen to me, "we'll prove the cent_per_cent of the consignors, how the liquidating offices are doing now. That's why among other things they get more resources through tax evasions that some of the taxpayers make. So, listen to me, we're doing this right – we're doing this right. Because I always say, "If we have to do one thing to make it worse than others do, we do not negotiate. If we do it, it's because we have to do it better. And here I do have reasonable doubts, because they probably did a lot more at a time and with much more security we would go to a September 1st with the certainty that we would do better. And I certainly don't have it today. But it's that more than you say that from October 2nd they want to have a own estate, they want to collect all the taxes that are collected from Catalonia; all of them, even those in which we don't have competitions. And, listen, we already have some problems here, because, of course, we don't have competition over all taxes, and that creates a lot of uncertainty. There are experts, no longer my group, there are many experts who are slowly saying that generating uncertainty and legal uncertainty with the creation of two legalities is not a good thing for taxation, because the city needs to know who is claiming the tax, whether the Catalonia Tax Agency or the Spanish tax agency. He has to know, he has to have the certainty that his tax has to pay here or there. Because, listen to me, we can't ask people to actually do something; no, because then it will mean having problems with the story, and therefore people need to know where to put their taxes. And that's not nonsense; it's not just the citizens, it's the businesses, it's the professionals, and it seems to me that this is very uplifting. Then you say, "No, but we will already do this on October 2. Clearly, he says: "Well, then, it could be done with an agreement with the State. He's got it? No, they don't. You say: "Well, even though there is no agreement with the State, the other day you say, in one act, "in four months we will keep everything ready. For motius, it seems. Mr. Salvadó said that like – and he would repeat it again – if we won the reference to the State for a treatise he would end up negotiating with us the tax issue and, therefore, agree and pass on the tax data bases and everything we need, personal... Because, of course, we would need five thousand workers to manage all the taxes we receive in Catalonia. You're talking about 8 cents. Home, it doesn't seem possible; why don't we just say so? An agreement with the State in four months seems that it would not be possible, so much so that I won by squandering the non-referendum. Listen to me, I honestly don't understand. And the other possibility is that, well, they do it with the favor of the tax advisors, the ones who have already been looking for the privatization of the council. And they say, "No, let them help us, that they are the ones who have a relationship with the citizens, man! , to convince citizens and businesses to enter taxes into the tax agency. God-in-law! That's what you say, huh? Home, god-in-law, go look for private people to convince citizens and businesses to enter taxes at the Catalonia Tax Agency. Honestly, do we have to go? Is that how we build a country? Home, I really thought Catalonia was a more serious country, honestly, huh? Every day you have the ability to surprise me. Listen to me, to make a proper file and manage everything we receive here, we would need some databases that we don't have, much so that we have some fiscal data; computer programs that we don't have prepared; more than five thousand people... Listen to me, and I don't say it: there are some expert journalists who aren't, say, propers to the Socialist Party who are saying these things. And what I'd like, Mr. Junqueras, is: u, to answer these questions about September 1st, which is in the canton, and which is important because it's a recap of the taxes that we can manage, and two, October 2nd, that you say you want to do that. Home, therefore, sincerely, it does not seem that we are prepared. And we'd like you to stop fabulating, touch more than a few on the ground and do the work for which you've been elected, and not for something that's all, right? We don't even know if it's going to happen, because if there's a non-referendum, first you have to win, the will of the people, you've already decided which one is... Home, yes, really, be serious. Everyone's resources are very important, because it's what pays for sanitation, education, infrastructure...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.141.0	Mrs Romero, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.142.0	...and we can't play with that. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.143.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. The words of Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.144.0	Another time, good day to everyone, thank you very much. In order to avoid any doubt, I would like to begin this explanation by clarifying that I also have a lot of "appreciate" to you; by clarifying that my opinion about Mr. Rajoy is not as favorable as you have, but that it is normal that it is like this – it seems to me –; in the third place, that in the same way that in mathematics there is a concept that calls itself the imaginary number, that it is the square plot of a negative number and, therefore, a number that cannot exist, you are up to the point that you agree and do things that I have not said: make sure that..., by assuming the answers I should give you, that you would like me to give you, and I am explaining to you what I am saying to you, and to you that I am explaining it. And so we wear a year that every time we explain what we're doing to you, it seems like it hurts you that we're doing it. You always tell us that we won't be able to do what we tell you to do, and every time we change we do what we say we'll do. Even though it was just for the experience, it would be good for you to give us a recon. I know you can't do it, even though you're aware you should. Anyway, I'm not gonna ask her to, obviously, huh? We'll keep doing the work. You say to us, "Listen, I want you to fight the fraud. I understand, that... I'd just need you to get out here and tell us that you don't want to fight the fraud. Okay, you want to fight the fraud. The best proof that we do is precisely that we've raised 360 million tax fraud in the last two years. So, listen... you tell us: 'Commit's, make sure they do. No, we won't just do it, but we're doing it, and we've also explained it repeatedly, and enough. And, therefore, the answer to the questions that you ask, obviously, is the answer that you can imagine: it is obvious that we will do our job, that we will use all the tools that we have in our midst, that we will prove everything that is proveable, just as it is so far ago... I have just explained to you that a good part of the workers who will work in these functions are the same ones who were working there now, with the difference that they will make between the parachute of the Tax Agency of Catalonia, in the place of doing so for some registrars of property; that these resources, in the place of being paid to the Administration of the State, of being paid to the Minister of the Province of Catalonia, will be invested in the service of the employees of the General, and of the better, the better, the better, the better, the better, the better, the better, the better, the better, the better. I have just explained it to you, and you say to me: "It is not that you answer me if we have the... Yes: we will keep the profiles and, therefore, the tools that we design and implement, and that we will implement, in some cases, therefore, from July 1st in the area of the tax on added sugar, etc., or from September 1st in the area of the executive charge of the Catalan Transit Service, from other public administrations, all this, obviously we will do, and that is exactly what we have compromised to do, and that is what we will continue to do. And it seems to me that, like so many other times in life, the best possible discourse is fets, fets. And it seems to me that the work done at the length of this year, this year and almost half, therefore, fully supports the effectiveness of this work that we are doing and that we will continue to do. In any case, I'm sure we'll have a chance to keep talking about it, because we'll have a debate on some of the proper plenarys around these questions and, in any case, we'll also have a chance to go after it, the deployment of this July 1st, September 1st, and, therefore, to answer the doubts that can be raised, that I understand that they're sorely explained, huh? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.145.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Thank you all very much. The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.146.0	It's part of the session. [[Proposition of law of associations of persons who consume cannabis]] [[202-00090/10]] Too late to all and so to all. The fourth point of the order of the day is: debate and vote on the opinion of the Health Committee on the proposed law of associations of people who consume cannabis. In accordance with Articles 121.1 and 138.2 of the Rules, this initiative is presented by the representative of the Commission for the Promotion of People's Legislative Initiative. It has the word, therefore, Lord David Martínez Oró.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.147.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you all very much. First of all, some thanks to all the people who have made possible the processing of this law of a long way that has assumed to arrive until today. Give thanks to the promoter committee for the important task executed and to the Health Committee and to the deputies who comply with it to listen to so many views and make it possible for this to arrive at a good port. A special mention, as it could not otherwise be, of the president of the commission, the deputy Alba Vergés. Also, to the Civil Observers of Drug Policies to be the alma mater and boost the ILP La Rosa Verda. Also to the cannabic movement, associations, clubs and users and cannabis users for the donated support. Thank you all very much. That said, it's a time to change. Today is a day of honour for Catalan society. We have taken a firm step towards achieving a fairer and more equal society. With the law of associations of people who consume cannabis, we firmly support democratic foundations, because the Parliament of Catalonia, by putting the impulse of an ILP of consensus, begins to address the historical error that has involved proscriptionist policies in the field of drugs. We trust that this law is a new impetus to defend the rights of people who use drugs, especially those who use cannabis, and to fight for their freedoms, including pharmacological freedom, but also to delimit their obligations and dues to exercise such freedom. The present law has a clearly democratic attitude, which defends the criminal and criminal way and begins to circulate through the way of regulation. Catalonia takes the only possible path in the field of drug policies, its reform in normalizing claus, which must not be confused at any time with banalization. Cannabis is an undeniable and indelible social reality. All the efforts made to eradicate its use have failed. The prohibitionist logic counts on its having a few results, but ingenious failures in its deure, and we know this because scientific evidence is overwhelming, all efforts to boost any attempt to assess the impact of its policies. The unintended consequences of prohibitionism, recognized since 2008 by the Office of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, are unsustainable in perpetuating it and represent a violation of human rights, persecution, stigmatization and expulsion to the social margins of users. To redouble efforts in prohibitive policies, as called for by the most intransigent voices, also to double the damage, such as, for example, in strengthening organized crime; rent of capital; police corruption; erosion of law enforcement, as they are watching in Mexico; violation of human rights and individual freedoms in the form of disproportionate prison sentences; and torture and the death penalty. The most dramatic case in today's world is the Philippines of Duterte; it is a weakness that, fortunately, the net democratic countries are leaving behind. Today there are many agents, from representatives of the local world to international organizations, who call for policy reforms. The path we take follows the political alternative of the countries that have already begun to leave the prohibitionist wall. Beyond the imperfect model of the Netherlands, Uruguay and eight states of the United States have already regulated the cannabis for recreational purposes, and twenty-nine states of the United States have done so for exclusively therapeutic purposes, as have the Netherlands, Germany and other countries of the European Union. In this sense, the embodiment of the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, in its recent report on drugs 2017, published just a week ago, explicitly recognizes the viability of new forms of regulation of cannabis. Therefore, it is burying the leniency against reformist proposals. This evidence shows that, while timidly, the international agencies responsible for taxation are aware that innovation in drug policies becomes a necessity. Catalonia saw the birth of the cannabic associations, in the first instance of the hand of Arsec and, later, of the Association of Tastadors of Cànnabis of Barcelona. Since then the cannabic movement has been persisting and persevering to achieve the regulation of the cannabs; a movement strongly implemented in our country of which cannabic associations are a more genuine product. Associations that clearly intertwine with the Catalan associative tradition. We know that Catalan society has pushed and, also, led many legislative changes, and this is no more an example. In the absence of a legal regulation the social clubs of cannabis, through their federations Fedcac and CatFAC, have worked tirelessly to self-regulate, and also to reach a consensus, reflected in their good practices. Self-regulation has allowed the model of social cannabis clubs, exported to Mexico, to other countries, both legally, as is the case in Uruguay, as in the case of law, as in the case of Belgium, which has already shown some effectiveness both in reducing consumer risks and in defending the freedoms of cannabis users. With the law that we present today above the time to establish a firm regulation of the social clubs of cannabis; regulation that eliminates ambiguity, grey areas and legal insecurity, swampy lands that have been exploited to camouflage under the appearance of social clubs of long-distance practical cannabis from the genuine experience of cannabis associations. Therefore, the Catalonian Parliament must be applauded because, lastly, the rules governing cannabid associations and thus be able to reflect the historical hardship suffered by fellow cannabis and cannabis consumers. The new scenario that allows the law makes us predict, without any doubt, a substantial improvement in all spheres. This law follows the reformist path, the pioneer law in Europe and the first of the world at the time of regulating with all cannabi associations, condemned until now to legal insecurity. The law we're discussing today allows you to put the cannabis under control. This substance, as you know, is not harmless and that is why we have to regulate and control it. If psychoactive substances are left on the margins of society, their control is impossible and the damage inevitably increases. Therefore, this law allows Catalan society to take control. Cannabid associations from ara will become a key actor at the time of preserving collective salvation. Betting on drug policies in the normalizing claus is an opportunity to put light on a stunned phenomenon in the dark of covertness. Among the positive consequences of regulation we highlight the anticipated advances in research, both in biomedical and sociocultural terms. Beyond the right and democratic state, and democratic right, the law will allow protection of the rights of the population assembly and not just of the '11,1_per_cent of the population that, between fifteen and sixty-four years, is estimated to have used cannabis in the last year, but also of the remaining 89_per_cent, which has no contact with the cannabis. It will also make it possible to preserve public health, already due to the dispensation of products with all health guarantees, already for the implementation of prevention, awareness or care programs. It will improve civic coexistence, and also civic security, and we trust you to reduce crime and organized crime. And when the appropriate legal mechanisms are established, it will be a source of input for the public sector. Because, beyond certain charges, it will formalize things that are found at these times in informality and precariousness. Dealing with a popular legislative initiative, as you know, is not an easy task. Without the will of a commission to promote the company, it would have been a chemera. Reaching 50 thousand firms in a country of more than 7 million inhabitants has required a considerable amount of human and economic resources, as well as ingenious efforts on the part of all the agents involved, and more so in just nine months. It is more than 65,000 firms, of which more than 56,000 are valid, and we have the conviction that there would be many more if we had more time and resources. Because there is a detail that I want to highlight: to people who presented themselves with the opportunity to sign to give support to the ILP, this they will do, only a minority refused; a clear indication that Catalan citizenship supports the regulation of cannabis clubs. That is to say, an undeniable display of social will to take a step forward in the reform of drug policies and advance towards societies, I insist, clearly democratic and free. And we have to recognize that the Green ILP has been and is a reference for other political strategies that pursue the regulation of cannabis around us, as is the case of the State ILP, named "Your Import Paper", which needs the ingested quantity of 500,000 signatures. From here, offer the experience of La Rosa Verda to all agents who want to start a regulatory process. The law of people who consume cannabis enjoys a broad consensus and the promoter commission is satisfied with the wording proposed to the hemisphere today. The law guarantees the rights and fundamental freedoms, in accordance with Article 5 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, where it is recognized that people have right to the free development of personality and personal ability. To put an end to the legal and health society that involves unfair discrimination and violation of the phone rights of cannabis consumers. A law that has the following objectives, I highlight the following objectives: the supply and distribution of cannabis among the associates; the prevention of risks and the reduction of damage associated with the informal markets; information to the associates on the substance, consumption and risk, and also quality control of cannabis. The law contemplates some conditions of income to the clubs: major service of age, consumer service of cannabis, a endorsement of another member. It is true, in the case of therapeutic cases, that, at the length of the writing, there are special characteristics. Make a few clear rights, and also a few duets, to all associates. Moreover, cannabis associations will have documentary obligations with different books, such as those of associates, self-supply, transport and distribution. Sets maximum quantities of club production, about 100_50 kilos per year and 60_grams per member; ages to avoid distribution to third parties, with special attention to minors; special protection to public health, with prohibition of alcohol consumption, and also consumables – products developed with active principles that, on occasions, are related to public health problems; and also, of course, establishes a regulatory regime. Such a time, arrived at this moment, the visions that criticize the reform of the policies of the cannabis will articulate different forms to pull back what is this undeniable social reality. Sense of doubt, and I want to subrate, at any time this substance is a harmless substance, but it represents its risks and needs to work to reduce them to the maximum. This does not mean that it wants to boost consumption; all the contrary, it wants to be under control. Therefore, we must not fall under the guise of the reform, but we are aware that different people will try to distort the social, political and health-related advances that the reform seeks to achieve: to awaken irrational gusts and the visibility of the rebroadcast against everything that goes back to drugs until the time of taxation. On occasion, this time will be used "brown caricatures, such as the theory of escalade which unreasonably proclaims that the inician of the cannabis carries the jump to potentially more addictive substances, such as heroin. Science proves that this is not so. There will also be an increase in cannabis consumption. The first results of impact assessments to a state of the United States that has already regulated it, as is the case in Colorado, where recreational consumption is allowed, show that legalization does not imply an increase in consumption, but that the trends that are donated in the later years continue in its line. Such a time it may be said that the greater offer will not increase consumption, depending on how it is produced and how the offer is made. In this case, the control of the offer will be well regulated and, therefore, we can be reassured that it will not divert third people nor will it make an inappropriate use or an improper use of what the cannabis is. The mode proposed for the law contemplates a controlled dispensation. Moreover, in our context, the offer of cannabis is almost total, as the survey shows to the school population and to the general population. I who in flight, consumes without any type of guarantees, neither sanitary nor personal. Prohibitionist policies have not prevented the offer, therefore, to control the offer sensibly has no reason to correlate with the increase in consumption. Another aspect that is sometimes discussed when reforming drug policies, cannabis policies, is the increase in school failure and under-consumption. It will also be presented as an unintended consequence of the regulation of cannabis clubs. There will be no better way to control minors and their consumption in a scene that looks at reality and not that you pull pilots out, as you have done so far, expelling and denying a social reality that we have well present in our context. Therefore, it must be controlled in a persevering way, as demonstrated by the law, the dispensation of the cannabis. And, as we know, school failure is a product of contextual factors, we cannot attribute to the cannabis what is a product of socialization problems, which normally engulf cases of perennial poverty. We will also find that we are dealing with reforms of the cannabis policies, which sometimes call for scientific studies to discredit any reform process, but in the event that such studies are presented quickly we will observe methodological shortcomings, problems of display or even ideological biaixos, which implies that such scientific studies are derived in totally ideological documents. So, said this, we believe that the law that we have today, that we present, is an advance to some societies to foster the states of law; moreover, it is a law that proposes to regulate an undeniable reality, present in our context, and, therefore, to encourage all the parliamentarians who support it, and thus to thank all the people of the cannabic movement who have suffered during these years, that today is a day of celebration for them, today is a day that is indeed re-establishing shortcomings that have been felt and certain hardships, and, therefore, it is a day of honour, and we continue to work because drug policies particularly continue to serve the rights of individual people. Therefore, just thank the promoter committee for giving me the opportunity to defend the law and all of you for this time. And we trust that this gets to a very good place. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.148.0	Thank you very much, Mr. David Martínez. Then, according to Rules 118.4 and 121.1 of the Rules of Procedure, she has the word to present the work of the committee, the deputy Alba Vergés, who in mad appointed rapporteur.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.149.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to all, to all, to the deputies, obviously to the councillor, but above all to the people we have here in the public and the representatives of the commission of the promoter. Many of you are ILP promoters or signers..., that the Parliament of Catalonia has gathered this witness from a basic, key, essential and important work that you have already done, that it is to agree, that it is to join you, that it is to work to obtain the signatures that support the civic will of the Catalan society to regulate associations of people who consume cannabis. We took this witness, this responsibility, this will with great responsibility, and today we return this witness with the approval of the law, which is largely yours, and we place it in the service of all society. The first thing I want to express is that it was a huge pleasure to be able to work on this law from the beginning until today. To know the associated movement of the cannabis in Catalonia, different associations, federations and, above all, various people of the legal or academic sphere who have been working for many years, who are compromised and who have always believed that some new policies, as David Pere said, who transcends the great wall of prohibitionism, must serve to regulate a social reality that exists in our country..., all this has been enriching. This goes all the way and here we're just doing the last trosset, a trosset of a path that's just the entrance of another longer path that we're going to have to keep going, hopefully, with a little bit more light than what we've had so far. All I'm saying is that I've only done this trosset, which is now what I'm talking about, has been very intense: more than forty appearances in eight sessions between October and November of last year, some more than they answered in writing, ending with the last appearances in the Health Commission by representatives of the same associations and by the Deputy Director General of Drugs of the Government of Catalonia, Mr. Joan Colom, who we also have here and with us. Everyone, everyone, was very interesting, I'm sure they shared the rest of the Members who were present, and from here I want to thank all the people who came to see us to have transferred their expertise to make a good law, the law we approve of today. Some of them are here today and we were able to invite you, given that you lived close by; but we also had a lot of people coming from outside and also wanted to accompany us in this legislative process. In these more than forty appearances we held lawyers, magistrates or ex-magistrates, experts in international law, experts in public health, in the field of psychiatry, pharmacology, people in the field of agriculture, the Mossos d'Esquadra, the Department of Interior, academic experts in the field of public policies, trade unions, researchers on the cannabis, municipalist entities, anthropologists, international references in drug policies, references from other countries to expose their own experience in the regulation they had in their own country, in the field of risk prevention and harm reduction, and, obviously, associations and all the associated field and Catalan movement. Once the deputies and deputies were able to listen to all these experts, some by videoconferencing, by writing and in committee, I assure you that we have already been passionate about this process and have been able to make the papers to the initial text of the ILP with much more criteria and knowledge. So, thank you very much. I also take advantage of the services provided by the Departments of Interior, Agriculture and Health to have made it easier for us to incorporate colleagues from all three spheres to provide us with their knowledge, and the Department of Justice, to whom we have also been able to consult several times on the content and processing of the law. In the end, there were a hundred and twenty items in total that the groups made available to us. From the month of February to the month of May we have held eleven sessions of questioning to agree and recommend the definite text that today is put to the vote. It's up to me to gratify..., as it couldn't be otherwise – don't see Raúl now [[the speaker laughs]] – it's up to me to thank the rest of the Members with whom I shared the law's questioning sessions that I have always maintained this willingness to enrich and not to take away the debate. Because there hasn't been much debate at the ponence sessions. And here we have the Oriol Couples and some of the people on the promoter's committee who have been able to witness the ponies that can corroborate it. We have had a lot of debates, every time, to try the best possible text to do the best possible law. Willingness to improve the text, to constantly question us to exercise our responsibility as speakers, with rigour, and to be able to listen also to the commission promoting popular legislative initiative. Many thanks to all the Members and Members. I sincerely believe that the fact that this is coming to Parliament through an ILP gives it a point of strength. For a band, we, like our constituents, have allowed ourselves not to feel alone, or alone, regulating an activity that we do not know in detail, while we have tried to keep all respect to the task of drafting the text and collecting the support signatures that you have made. This allowed us to work on rapeseed rape with the promoter's commission as well. And here I also want to add something and I want to stop for a moment to highlight the help we have gained from parliamentary services, which have given us confidence in technically confirming political agreements. I am referring to the manager, also to the linguist and, of course, to the readership. Many thanks for helping us with your work to get us to approve today an ambitious and precise law. There are aspects of the law that were not developed in the initial text, or items that needed legal advice, that the letter did not hesitate to seek, to work, to explain and to carry, so that we can decide and agree among all the transactions that we have arrived at, that there are many. I would like to point out that many transactions have been between the parliamentary groups, in this case, Juntes per el Si and the Socialist Group. Mr Raúl Moreno of the Socialist Group has done an excellent job and I want to recognize him here today. Many have also signed with the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, to which also I thank, to the deputy Albano Dante, the very good disposition. And, while not having deals with the People's Party Group, I would like to say that, despite the fact that your group does not share the agreements that we have reached in the debate, the participation of the deputy of the People's Party Alberto Villagrasa during the sessions has been constant, and it brought a different point of view to the debate that we have had that I also believe that on the part of the Members and Members, too, we have listened carefully. And this was the task that culminated in the adoption of the opinion by the Parliament's Health Committee on June 8th, and today we finish this road trip. I also notice that it is a law that did not want to go through other aspects of the activity of associations, because the ILP did not do so and because the question was intended to complement everything that was not well defined. For this reason, it establishes a clear legal regime for associations, which is what you asked us to do. Not only the constitution and organization of associations, but also the conditions of membership as associated, the rights and rights of associations, as well as the loss of association status; the documentary obligations of associations; the full self-sufficiency – "completely from production and storage to transport and distribution. We did not want to leave behind doors; we wanted to do a complete thing, because this I think is the will of the citizens of Catalonia and I think it is what they expressed through the ILP. Also the conditions and activity of the clubs, the limitation of advertising, the information, the measures of control and prevention of risks, the collaboration with other organizations, from public health to local, very important and basic for the activity of the associations, and the powers of inspection and control and the sanctioning regime. So I think we've tried not to leave anything to make a law that's complete. And a series of additional arrangements respect the implementation and the subsequent regulation. But this law also wants to convey a message, which is the message of trust and also of solvency, and the one that I want to address above all to those people who have not yet thought that it is possible to approach drug policies differently from prohibition. If one thing is proved, and he gave it to us before the commission of the promoter, it is that the prohibitionist policies have failed, that they have not sunk their goals neither of reducing consumption nor of ending the illegal market and the damage it has. In view of this weakness, it is time to stop this path of opportunities, it is not a easy way or simply to open a door, but it is a new way to face the challenges and changes that society is putting before us. Today we approve the Law of associations of people who consume cannabis, Members and Members, and I am proud that the Parliament of Catalonia approves this Law with the ambition with which they have asked us from society and with the seriousness that they seek from the Parliament. I am proud of the citizens' debates that have taken place to get here and that will necessarily follow, of the responsibility with which the people who promoted the ILP brought it here, of the work of the deputies and deputies and of the servants of the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.150.0	Thank you, Mrs Vergés. Next, to defend the reserved items for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Ms. Noemi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.151.0	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. First of all, I would like to greet all the people who are following this debate, both those who are here, who are part of the promoter group of this ILP La Rosa Verda and the various Catalan federations..., people from the cannabic world, who have also come from other parts of Spain, as representatives of Responsible Regulation, and, well, I had to be with us today too, because, Ramón Morcillo, promoter of the ILP Tu Papel Importa, who has commented that David Pere has just entered the Congress of Deputies, who are already collecting signatures throughout the national territory, but, well, he has had a problem with the car and has been pulled into the entrance of Barcelona and has not been able to arrive for the moment. To greet also those who follow us from home, who I know are many; a large part of them, patients who demand access to therapeutic cannabis and who need more to be addressed urgently and once and for all the study of the therapeutic properties of cannabis and access to it. As I said, there are many people who are following us today, and it must be recognized that initiatives that seek to regulate access to cannabis have great support from a part of society. Secondly, I would like to highlight the good atmosphere that has existed in the presentation, the involvement and contributions of all parliamentary groups without exception, and the excellent work that has been done by counsel Anna Casas. It has been a talk in which despite the jokes made by the comrades..., because the caching has been generalized, so, smoking we have not smoked, but we have laughed a lot and we have also enjoyed a lot. On the subject, and to give context, I would like to refer to my previous intervention in the admission process of this initiative. From Citizens we understand that this substance is regulated with criteria more restrictive than other substances, such as alcohol or tobacco, whose abuse can be more harmful to health. And we will not deny that it can become harmful, because, among other things, as a substance or activity involving pleasure, it can generate dependence. And I want to quote again Antonio Escohotado, writer and philosopher included in the list of the seventy most important thinkers of the twenty-first century, because he gave the key when he spoke of the « art of dosing. But there is also scientific evidence of the beneficial and scientifically demonstrated properties: cannabis, among others, is used to relieve the suffering of diseases such as sclerosis, arthritis, rheumatism, different types of cancer, helps with nervous anorexia and overcome insomnia. It is one of the oldest medicines in humanity and with the safest therapeutic uses. There is no known case of lethal intoxication by inhalation, and this is a fact that is of real importance if we take into account the large number of daily users. In this sense, from Citizens we understand the urgency of being able to facilitate access to research, to medical cannabis therapies by patients, and to regulate the cultivation of cannabis, and therefore we present a proposal for regulation in the Congress of Deputies, because we believe that the pain of patients cannot wait any longer, it is a question of human rights, and, as I said, they cannot wait for the different parliamentary groups, so we discuss the model and uses of cannabis regulation. And we believe that the need to regulate this medicinal use is indisputable, and also that such regulation should be removed from monopolistic practices. With regard to the law that we are dealing with today, that of cannabis consumer associations, we said at the time, we did not understand it as an attempt to legalize marijuana because this is a matter of importance and national competence that must be discussed in the Congress of Deputies, but it is also true that there are many court rulings that support consumption and private supply on which these associations base their existence, and that, let us not forget, are mainly the channel by which these therapeutic consumers access a controlled, analyzed and healthy substance. According to the case law, self-sharing of drugs has no criminal relevance if the amount corresponds to normal and sporadic consumption among a small group perfectly identified, since they have a limit of partners and is carried out in a closed place. In addition, the Supreme Court has ruled that the practice of sharing drugs that are not seriously harmful to health, in specific places, closed to the presence of third parties, is criminally harmless, so that participation in a drug dissemination circuit is excluded. At the time, and on the basis of the data I have just given, we believe that this popular legislative initiative could become autonomous if, after going through the presentation phase, a solution was found to the problems that the Navarra law had, whose articulation lacked certain measures to allow the activity of the cannabic associations with the degree of security required, which was the argument given for the suspension of that law. For example, that law did not provide for the prevention of conduct that involved a crime against public health, therefore, including a chapter of the duties of the partners accompanying the one who did have rights, and therefore part of our amendments were aimed at, on the one hand, that the law would not run the risk of being suspended at two days by eliminating all those items that would probably be suspended, like all those relating to cultivation outside the club, transport and distribution, which I do not share, because the latter understood that it could be done if the substance was cultivated within the centre itself by the partners themselves. The amendments were also aimed at providing greater legal certainty for the exercise of the members of these associations; to include due diligence measures by the clubs; to ensure that the managers of these clubs comply with the applicable law; to ensure that, as recommended by many of the experts who appeared at the presentation stage, the number of partners does not distort the purpose of allowing the shared consumption of these types of associations, and to ensure that the members of the associations are held accountable for the remuneration that the management bodies of the clubs may have. In this regard, we regret that a large part of them have not been included, because we believe that the result, that is the recommended opinion, will not provide legal certainty for clubs and will not fully guarantee the rights and freedoms of citizens, because a law cannot go against a higher standard. And what the citizens are going to find is that they will continue without knowing beforehand when and why a public authority will consider that they are carrying out an illegal act and when not. From Citizens we cannot share the maintenance and addition of articles that contradict superior legislation with the argument of being ambitious with the law, because it is a..., well, for a question of respect for the existing legality; legality that if you want to change can be made in the Congress of Deputies, where virtually all parties in this Chamber, except the CUP, we have representation, right? , and..., well, these parties charge their subsidies and should do the work there too. Just as a bakery cannot sell sole or rape, or a city council cannot decide on the educational model for society as a whole, this Parliament cannot jump over the laws. Even more so when there are mechanisms to do what and some that have already been put in place, such as several PNLs of various parties, one of them approved – that of Citizens, by the way – that will bring together experts to discuss the model of access to medical cannabis, and a popular legislative initiative to regulate self-cultivation and cannabic associations. But I cannot go beyond that argument, that of skipping legality by a question of ambition, without stressing that there is a great contradiction in it, which is what worries me. Because it was used as an excuse to skip existing legality the will to be ambitious. And if you really want to be ambitious, even though you know that what you are legislating is going to be suspended, we understand that this ambitious regulation should have covered the entire spectrum of cannabis use, such as self-culture, which represents the basis of the cannabic movement in Spain; the regulation that we are dealing with today, which is..., the associations of cannabis users that are organized to self-supply themselves without resorting to the informal market, on the basis that personal and private consumption alone has no criminal or administrative relevance in the Spanish legal system; the licensed trade in a way controlled by the State to prevent drug trafficking; accompanied by an educational proposal based on real information on risks and benefits, promoting individual responsibility and critical reflection to facilitate networking, among other things, of entities, collectives and organizations in the third social sector – as well as, it is known, Energy Control – which have worked for years since the reduction of risks and damage. And without forgetting also the access to therapeutic cannabis so that research and clinical trials can be encouraged so that the number of medical indications can be increased. That would have been ambitious. But if not, we do not understand that argument and believe that the inclusion of content that suffers from traces of unconstitutionality makes this law an instrument that will not give legal certainty to clubs and that will generate much frustration when the problems that it has begin to arise. And that frustration has already been said in its day that it will be used to feed the frustration that some people need to sustain their political project and that we will soon hear that 'Madrid won't let us smoke you; time at the time. Nor do we cease to regret what we see as the loss of a very valuable opportunity for these associations to advance in legal certainty, designing a model that did fit in the current legal order, which we have repeated to the satisfaction that could be done. We've repeated it in the paper and we're going to keep repeating it, waiting and wanting someone to pick it up so we can make it happen. All we have to do is look for the original amendments that my group has tabled; we believe that they are the key. Therefore, my parliamentary group will maintain the amendments that we believe would provide this law and the users of cannabis associations with legal certainty, will vote against the articles whose content we believe is outside the existing legal order, but in agreeing with the substance of the law, we announce that we will vote in favour of the content of the law, which we believe does not contravene any higher legal order, which helps to keep the debate open, which makes known the role and already recognized work that many of these associations do, harm reduction, associated with the clandestine market and certain uses. And we insist that this is a matter of national and international significance, and that we believe it is appropriate that it be substantiated at the national level with the participation of civil society and political representatives in the Congress. And so, summarizing and finalizing my speech, we will vote in favour of this law, with some buts and exceptions in which we cannot be participants. And I want to thank again all the fellow speakers: Alba Vergés, Albano Dante, Raúl Moreno, Alberto Villagrasa and Sergi Saladié ; the lawyer Anna Casas ; all the managers who have intervened; the advisers of the parliamentary groups who have also involved themselves, the good atmosphere that has existed, and that I have learned a lot from each of my colleagues. And also thank the promoter group and all the people who were involved in collecting signatures for bringing this debate to this institution, for the opportunity to meet experts, people the size of Antonio Escohotado, Raquel Peyraube or David Pere Martínez Oró. There are many experts who attended and provided all their knowledge on this subject, which I believe has enriched us all who have been able to participate in this presentation, so I cannot fail to thank you for the experience and knowledge you have gained. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.152.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. De la Calle. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.153.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament of Catalonia, Councillor, I take the first place to greet all the people who are accompanying us today in this plenary: the federations of cannabic associations, the representatives also..., the members of the Responsible Regulation, also the representatives of the Socialist Youth of Catalonia and other representatives of different entities related to the subject, and also, of course, the communication media that follow us today in this interesting plenary of the Parliament of Catalonia. For all of them, for all of them, for many of us, today is a day of celebration, it is the end of a long process that began with the collection of 65,000 signatures and a parliamentary process that I believe has been carried out. I want to start this intervention with a special recognition for all members, clubs, members of the cannábic federations of Catalonia. Yours has been a struggle for many years, with many interbanks. Twenty-six years after the founding of the Ramon Santos d'Estudis Association on Cànnabis, recognized as the first association of people consuming cannabis, your claim up to the Parliament, to the highest institution in this country, mediating the gathering of signatures, mediating a process of citizen participation and with a serious proposal already from the beginning. You have maintained throughout the process a respect for the political parties that have defended different positions and collaborated with a constructive attitude throughout the pose. If we have a law of these characteristics today, it's because you did the job well. You have been able to convince not only political parties, but a good part of the people of Catalonia. Also, obviously, I congratulate all the speakers who have participated in this law; the Oriol Casals, as representing the spokesman of La Rosa Verda; the late Anna Casas, who has done an excellent job; also the rapporteur, the Alba Vergés, who I believe has done a great job before this time. In a few weeks' time it will be a year before this House approved the principle of the process that led us to have a law regulating an activity that is present today in many cities and towns in Catalonia. One activity, that of the cannábic clubs, which is not new, that already exists in a remarkable way to our cities and towns: more than four hundred cannábic clubs distributed throughout Catalonia, and one hundred and fifty, that have tripled in the last years, only to the city of Barcelona. Regularly what already exists, which is already produced, is the best mechanism to straighten it up and control it. It does not mean leaving the black market free, with the social, economic and health repercussions that this entails. Not to regulate it is to want to cover their eyes in front of a reality that affects hundreds of thousands of citizens young, adults, malalts, that must be provided in the black market for lack of a regulation that gives coverage so much to those who dispense with as who consumes. The necessary debate of the cannabis does not resolve with approval of this law, but we help to express clearly the will of the Parliament of Catalonia to initiate a paradigm shift in the historical conception of cannabis consumption, which places and apart from policies based on prohibitionism, which, as we have proved, have not achieved the expected results. Fifty years of prohibition, repression of cannabis users that have caused the opposite effect: Spain is today one of the European Union countries that consumes the most cannabis. The latest data from the Ministry of Health's alcohol and drug survey indicate that 7.3_percent of the population, say, nearly 2.2_million people between fifteen and sixty-four years have consumed cannabis in the past month. The same question indicates that alcohol continues to feel the most consumed drug, followed by tobacco, hypnosedants – with or without reception – and finally cannabis. While there is a regulation in the first three, consumers and consumers of cannabis do so in a situation of legal and health insecurity that violates a part of their phone rights. While the black market continues to enrich itself by channelling the traffic of substances that do not pass any type of quality control and without prior information to the consumer. A social reality, that of the cannabis, full of legal emptiness; it must be remembered that to consume cannabis it is only necessary to plant a lavor at home, in the private sphere. It seems absurd to continue with a prohibitionist policy with the excuse of preserving the health of the population's conjunction when we live with other legalized drugs or, at last, with drugs with far more harmful effects than can be held responsible consumption of cannabis, products that are at the abst of everyone, in authorized establishments, and that are consumed daily for a vast majority of the population. It also seems absurd to continue with a prohibitionist policy when police intervention girls from the compliment of the law have not been able to stop a black market that has been staying for years, nor to reduce the consumption of the substance by the population. Regulating cannabic clubs does not mean agreeing to indiscriminate cannabis plantations used for the black market; it does not mean agreeing to put the light in places or floors to maintain a production. We're just calling for global regulation to end this way of hearing cannabis production and distribution. With this regulation we want to make sense of the way associations have formed from the shared use, self-control and self-consumption shared between people in the same club. With this regulation we want to put the principle of the right to freedom of conscience and freedom of the right, that is to say, that every one of us is responsible for that which he consumes, to protect those who do not want to consume it and to do it with all the information and not from the opacity, from the prevention of risks and not from the moon with the services of salvation. During these months of work in committee, we have rejected many positions of collective, associative and professional entities. A good part of those professional health claims also regular it to be able to better attend to the way and the harmful effects of irresponsible consumption of the substance, this and any other. The cannabic clubs, with this law, will become central agents of our prevention and information system towards the cannabis, connected to the Health Department, with the health resources of prevention of the territory, with a necessary training to those who decide to form part of it. Regularizing it will also allow us to detect those clubs that do not do well, because it is a compromise of all folds, also of the cannabid federations, to make the law complete. If we are not able to create an efficient system, if we are not able to discern between those who comply with the norm and those who do not, all the legislative effort will not serve for nothing. For this reason, the law also provides for a period of adaptation of existing clubs to the norm and a sanctioning regime for those who do not comply with it. The position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group a year ago was to raise the parliamentary procedure of this ILP. And we have complied with four basic criteria which we consider to be reflected in the proposal that we are putting to the House today. These four criteria were: first, that the law should allow local governments a legal framework for the regulation of club activity throughout Catalonia – therefore, legal protection of administrations, clarify the competences of each government, reduce conflicts with the income and protection of consumers as well – ; that the law should collect aspects related to the protection of health and establish the mechanisms of information and prevention; that it should defend consumer rights and end the stigmatization of people who consume cannabis, and that it should be based on the freedom of conscience and the free disposal of the property of people. As I say, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we believe that these aspects are taken up by the law, even if we leave a message alive, which still reinforces the role of the assemblies, to which I shall refer more closely. While the rapporteur, the Vergés Alba, has taken a rest from the law, I would like to highlight some aspects that I believe are key to hearing which legislative task we have undertaken. First of all, we regulate the associations of cannabis consumers and their clubs; so don't confuse this with the legalization of cannabis, which is close and also claims to the government of the State. We protect the consumer by means of a policy aimed at warning the risks and damages of consumption, ensuring that I have all the information I consume, and we promote specific public health programmes. We establish the legal regime of the activities of the associations, the conditions to be members, the need to limit the number of assessors to join a club, and also, as I said before, the sanctioning regime. Cannabic clubs must be transparent. The competent administration will be able to know at every moment how many partners there are, what quantity of cannabis is to be distributed and can be stored or the type of sub-administered substance, by means of register books. Consumption can only take place in the private sphere. It prohibits transmission to third parties and establishes the necessary elements to fight cannabic tourism, establishing a 15-day gap between club registration and the consumption policy. It limits the self-sufficiency associated to sixty_grams per person per month, a quantity that is reduced to twenty_grams between the associates between the divide and twenty-one years, which, moreover, will have to pass through training in relation to cannabis consumption. They regulate club spaces and activities that they can do; they cannot sell alcoholic beverages or other products derived from cannabis or any other uninstituted drug. By regulation, it will detail the distance between clubs, between these and other civic equipments, or their timetables, always respecting municipal autonomy, which will be able to adapt them to their reality, as requested by the two municipalist entities. In addition, health and hygiene control measures are established, as well as risk management and prevention programmes and harm reduction. It also establishes the close relationship that clubs and their associates must have with other public safety bodies and entities, as well as the collaboration of other administrations. And it is just with the relationship that the cannabis clubs must have with the gatherings that have been held since the Socialist Parliamentary Group we wanted to keep, as I said, a living thread, which we would always vote on. A question that demands technical and human resources to deal with the management of the cannabis clubs of our cities, of those that already exist and of those that are coming. The link between clubs and risk prevention programs forces them to make a task of dynamism and community work that they take on, yes or yes, the gatherings. The municipal powers in salvation are very limited, and we think that we need to allocate ad hoc staff and economic resources if we want to ensure a good implementation of this law and a high degree of compliment to our cities and towns. That's why we ask the rest of the groups for a positive vote on 102.5. This law is translated, in fact, into a real fact; we are talking about people, locals, we are talking about activity, and that the joints have the resources to manage it from the vicinity. Regular cannabic clubs will allow us to better know the reality of the phenomenon. We create a new body of follow-up to this law where all the competent parts will be present: from the government, the federations, the departments involved, the municipalist entities..., a body of follow-up that must not only be vetted for the compliment of the law or for the drafting of its rules, but also to increase the knowledge of the substance, the formation of the professional clubs and all those aspects that can be derived from a new law with which we pose today's consideration of the Parliament. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of this law, in line with the resolution promoted by the Socialist Youth of Catalonia and approved at the end of the PSC congresses, in favour of regulating the consumption of cannabis; also with the positions defended for the different congresses and seminars to which we have been invited. From the Congress of Deputies, we have also given recollection to the creation of a parliamentary commission to study the regulation of the medicinal cannabis. But basically we give our positive vote to this law because the articulated, much worked out, much traded during the past few months..., because we want to start the joint of political forces of the State to start a serious, modern, wide-ranging debate, with eyesight, refugee historical damage, so as to regulate the use of the cannabis in a sense that incorporates this law, from a view of freedom, information, direct interrelationship between consumption and prevention and risk management, a paradigm shift in the management of consumption of cannabis, as other lands of the world have done. This is a legal fight for a change respecting the conception of the cannabis. And the Parliament of Catalonia puts its smile on this law. We know that the Constitutional Court will look at it on its own and that it will, therefore, issue its resolution, which you consider appropriate, which we will abide by, as it cannot be otherwise. We were already warned at the beginning of this process with the report of the Directorate-General for Competition Coordination with the Autonomous Communities and Local Entities, attached to the Ministry of History and Public Administration. What is the result, the Parliament of Catalonia, the cannabic federations of our country and a good part of the conjunction of Catalonia's citizenship, we will have expressed to what we think we need to do: regular to protect, regular to inform, regular to fight the black market, regular to build a courageous and responsible society, regular to force the conjunction of citizenship and political forces to change their gaze towards consumers and consumers of cannabis. Personally, this has been a fantastic exercise, after many years of struggle to achieve recognition and regulation of cannabis consumption. I would like to congratulate the entities, the federations, all the people who have gone through the trouble, who have helped us to enrich our knowledge of the cannabis, and also to meet many of you, people like us, all the same, all different at once, who want to make their struggle a way of life, a way of changing society, and that this Parliament of Catalonia, thanks to an ILP, has made it possible. Many congratulations to all of you, and congratulations. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.154.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreno. Next, to defend the reserved items for the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word of Lord Albano Fachin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.155.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. It's up to me to talk last, and to say another time that today is a special day is to reiterate, but I think it's important. Not always – not always – parliaments approve laws that improve the coexistence of all people who integrate a society. This law we approve of today is one of these laws. And, in addition, there is another important factor: if this Parliament is up to what is happening to society today, if we are about to approve this law, it is because thousands of people have mobilized and brought this debate to the end because the time is coming for us to approve it. And it's a special joy, because it reminds us that this institution is at the service of what happens outside these pairs, it's at the service of the people who see their lives as they please, and it reminds us that these institutions are ours. This one came in like ILP. It's a thing that doesn't matter from the bottom, like so many other things that don't matter from the bottom, like marijuana plants, that don't matter from the bottom, and, besides, it's a joy, it's a joy because, if things go as they seem to go, this will be the only law that we approve of the fruit of an ILP. Therefore, this makes this moment especially cheerful. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They say no to me. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The guaranteed rent. Well, two out of three, because there's a third -- there's a third. Today's a happy day because we approve of a law that doesn't need an ILP. So glad is today how sad was the day that in this very Parliament we dropped an ILP: Together for the Yes and the People's Party dropped the ILP of education. And, as the first speaker explained to us, here we are also talking about education, here we are also talking about rights: the rights of people who smoke, the rights of people who go to school..., the right collections are of everyone. Unfortunately, we do not always have the joy that we have today, to give response to the thousands of people who work to address this Parliament and find an answer. It is also a joy that we will not only approve it, but that we will approve it for a very large majority. A vast majority of Parliamentarians who, first of all, are the people from civil society who have shared with society as a whole... because we know that many of these signatures that have brought this proposal here are people who do not smoke but who are willing to recognise the freedom of others to do what they consider with their lives. A large majority of Parliamentarians who have also..., from the pushers– The Green Rose, the Federation of Cannábic Associations –, who have accompanied us to the length of this process, who have not left us alone, who have not brought us a demand and have waited to see what we have done, but who have participated in it – want to give the thanks especially to Oriol Casals, who has made this law today that we approve of containing things of this reality that so many times remain outside of the laws that we approve. A vast majority of people who have also been built thanks to these ponences of which Alba and Raúl spoke to us, these ponences where a lot of people with different perspectives, often coincidentally, and who always forced us to make a high-level debate... They talked to us about salvation, they talked about security, they talked about administrative processes, we heard the local world's voice and we talked about everything – above all – freedom and phonenal rights, which is the driving force behind what we are doing here, and I think that all this, all this work and all these contributions to the stage of large-scale ponences are contained in the law that we are approving today. And lastly, a huge majority... thanks to the work, let me say, it seems like a formalism, but to the great work of Alba Vergés as the rapporteur, who has brought us all and helped us all to make the way that today is up to this point, and to the indispensable guide, also, of the late Anna Casas, who has helped us to this law not to follow the letters, that this law responds to a lot of deep motivations of what it means to live in a society and to listen to each other, beyond our differences. I think in this letter you're all this and it's thanks to all this work I've described. This law regulates an activity, but sometimes plays a very important role in an international context where there is an open debate around drug policies. With this we regulate an activity, but this Parliament sends a message to the rest of the State and the rest of the world. A message that says that the backs of societies are resolved by looking at them in the face; it is resolute by arguing without; it is resolute by not having the people exercise as citizens, and understand – and I think we have to hear it – the importance of the message that we send today in relation to the finding of the fraction of years of repression, of years of serious errors that have patiently brought many people, many people among whom there are some who have worked because today is a reality. It is also important to bear in mind this dimension that goes beyond the concrete regulation that we are making, before the possibility that before it was laid on the table, the possibility that this we approve today with other institutions, the Constitutional Court, for example. She told Naomi that this could generate frustration. We don't think so. Actually, if we're here today, it's because there's a lot of people that for years, before some laws that repress..., all these people didn't give up, didn't get frustrated and kept working because that was done. So, it's likely, that some aspect of this may, therefore, conflict with other things, but, well, let's wait and see what the other things say, but above all we keep seeing the engine that brought us all the way here. And this engine is a series of people who claim a few rights, although these rights have been denied for years and years. Therefore, taking this into account will also help us to continue this path forward. Before dawn I said it, it's not a final point, meaning doubt is a starting point, another starting point. Therefore, before this possible shock, before this possible problem administered, to say it in some way, so, just as the people have kept and made this law come here, the people will have to continue feeling ownership of the law and defend it. It will also be important that this involvement of the people who brought the law here at the time of doing all the work that is now being done, the fruit of this law. It will be necessary to develop regulations, it will be necessary to make the observatories and the various workspaces work, and it will not work autonomously unless it continues to work with the participation of the people. And this participation of the people is what will have to ensure that this law stays in the hands of the people, as it should always be when they have acquired the right to approach a fairer and above all happier society, because at the end of it is to make a society where people are happy and happy. I'm done. A while ago, our group withdrew the papers that we had submitted. We understand that in the final text, the result of all this magnificent work that we have done at this stage of questioning, advisors for the people who brought us the law..., these ideas that we have presented are included, their hope, to the final text, therefore, we will vote in favour. We will vote in favour of the Socialist Party's move to focus on the local world and its role as protagonist in the development of this law. We will vote against the Ciutadans Group's proposals, but he said, we will vote against the proposals that have remained alive. I want to acknowledge that in the final text there is a lot of material and a lot of contributions that have enriched the text coming from Naomi, who has done a great job too. We shall vote against the statements made by the People's Party. And, well, I want to finish by saying and pointing out something that might seem obvious. Today there are a lot of people, users, consumers of cannabis, who earn rights, but we have to insist a lot on a question: when a group, when a collection in a society earns rights, the rights earn everyone, who smokes and who does not smoke. And that's what we have to say again, because today we have to be... we have to have the feeling of living in a society a little better. Now I'm done. A pleasure to have participated in this process. Recongratulate the artifexes, who are the organized people who have brought this law up here and wish to celebrate it, to celebrate it at their clubs, obviously respecting the limits that have marked this law that we will approve today. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.156.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fachin. In order to defend the papers presented for the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, Mr Alberto Villagrasa has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.157.0	President, Councillors, Members... Also welcome the people who are with us today in this plenary room. First, two thanks. One, thanking all the appearances that have taken place, for the debate that has taken place, which I also think were very interesting debates, and the other, thanking the fellow speakers for the work they have done, the lawyer, the rapporteur, the rapporteur and also l'Oriol, who have had very kind discussions at legal level and I think it has been a very enriching debate. And then my next words, from the discrepancy, are to acknowledge the work led by the paper, which has always tried to make the bill as rigorous as possible. And, therefore, go ahead with this recognition. But trying to make a bill as rigorous as possible doesn't mean it gets legal. And then, with this bill, they try to normalize something that we understand cannot be consented to, that is, that the use of cannabis, in this case, is seen as normal. And we make the same mistakes again as with tobacco and alcohol. In the 1960's, 1970's and 1980's, it was very modern to smoke and drink alcohol. And the stereotypes and the references were wrong. Tobacco, thus showing signs in the advertising of the typical hard man – everyone will remember the cowboy of the ad – or modern women who identified self-smoker with smoking. Today we know that tobacco, in addition to its addiction, is one of the main causes of many types of cancer that cause people of all ages to lose their lives. And with alcohol it happens the same, only that in addition to its addiction and being a cause of various types of diseases, alcoholism can be the ruin and drama of many families. Precisely because of these causes, the legislation increasingly restricts their consumption and sale, whether by age or by consumption in public places or sports venues, for example. And now you want to make the same mistake with cannabis. Politically, they believe that this can give them a more open or modern image. You may believe that, but it does not mean that it is an appropriate and responsible attitude. It was also very modern to consume tobacco and alcohol in the 1970s and 1980s. As was also very modern, in the world jipi, in the sixties and seventies, consumption of LSD. And no one gets away with how harmful the use of this kind of drug is. To want to give an image of legality and normality about cannabis use, the only thing that can generate is a distorted view of the reality, of the reality of cannabis. What is that reality? Let's look at Europe's experience. The Netherlands is beginning to legislate in a very restrictive way the activity of coffee shops, among other reasons because they are tired of being a cannabic tourist destination and because of the problems that have been caused by altercations in the surroundings of these clubs, both for their consumption and for the purchase of marijuana. The experiences of some states in the United States and Uruguay will be able to say that they are positive, but today they do not have enough travel to be able to evaluate the experience with enough qualitative data. That's right, we get news that, for example, in Colorado, this has led to easier access of cannabis to younger people and is a gateway to the mafias to neighbouring states. Let's see other sources, see what they say. First, the age survey of the Ministry of Health, Social Affairs and Equality on alcohol and drug use carried out throughout Spain and which in Catalonia is of the communities where most surveys are carried out. The surveys of 2015 and 2016 tell us that the most consumed drugs are legal, alcohol and tobacco. Do you remember what I was saying to you before you were wrongly normalized? Those are the consequences. Fourthly, there is cannabis, which is the first among illegal drugs. And among those who consume the most, which is what worries, is the age group between fifteen and thirty-four years. Second source: Human Project data. We are told that the biggest problem among teenagers is alcohol and cannabis use. And they explain that the starting ages are: in alcohol at the age of thirteen, in marijuana at the age of fourteen, in cocaine at the age of sixteen and seventeen. And in many of these cases, continuous consumption is associated with social causes, family conflict and school problems such as absenteeism and school failure. According to data from this same foundation, the demand for cannabis treatment from 2012 to 2015 has increased by 4_per_cent, with a_average, among the applicants for treatment, from the start of consumption to the age of sixteen and from the request for treatment to the age of twenty-eight. And, according to 2016 data, between fourteen and eighteen years of age the most consumed drug is cannabis. Why did he refer to these data? Because seeing all that I explain to you, we get to legislate to normalize cannabis use. And more so when we see that it is a real problem among the youngest age sector in our society. When it is necessary to work more intensively to first identify cases of consumption; secondly, to work to see the causes of consumption; thirdly, to work with consumers to explain these effects; fourthly, to intensify policies and prevention campaigns, especially among the youngest, and fifthly, to know, in broad terms, the causes of initial consumption among the youngest, to go to the root of the problem rather than to legislate to confuse them. And I say this because, respecting all appearances, there was an intervention by one of the experts who worried me. I remember asking you if among the percentage of young people who suffer from school failure, if their consumption, cannabis use had any direct relation to this fact. And his answer was as surprising as saying: "No, there is no direct relationship; that is, if the young man before entering the class smokes a stick, he will surely not know anything about what they explain to him in class. I think the comments are enough, so the fact speaks for itself. And now let's get into the content of the bill. The first comment I would make relates to what I was commenting on on the subject of advertising. They say that the proposal they put forward... that cannabic associations and clubs will not promote or advertise cannabis use. But the following article says that participation in congresses, forums, social networks, etc. is excluded from the previous article; that is, the alleged prohibition is not actually. Then they mix something that does not seem to us responsible, which is to mix the leisure consumption of cannabis with therapeutic cannabis, in the same law, in clubs and in cannabic societies. Therapeutic cannabis has to be prescribed by a medical professional; therapeutic cannabis is never smoked, and neither clubs nor the supposed regulation of the law can regulate what cannot be replaced: a medical professional. And you can't resort to therapeutic cannabis as an excuse to try to show what they want to show you that it is: normally, smoking marijuana. Look, morphine also has therapeutic uses, it also has them, and that's not why it's normal to see its voluntary use – of this drug. With this measure they will also not end the illegal trafficking of marijuana. In the law they talk about tax measures, and in that we would agree, because, if there is a commercial activity in the clubs, they would have to pay their corresponding taxes and taxes, which affects the final price of the product. Therefore, marijuana on the black market will always be cheaper than that of the club, and for that reason the black market for cannabis drugs will never disappear. And not only that – and that would coincide with some of Mossos d'Esquadra's competitors – but it could be said, in some cases, that, with the excuse of legalization, Catalonia would be used as a focus for the cultivation and transfer of cannabis to the black market, to the rest of Spain and to the south of France, as is happening in Colorado, in the United States. Finally, they present a text that knows that it has many chances of not succeeding because it clashs head-on with the Criminal Code. And you know it. When they talk about cannabis, they talk about growing and transporting an illegal substance. As much as they talk about safe transport, sealed goods, sealing the goods, like a person, carrying this goods..., if intercepted by a police officer, the first thing he's going to do is requisition the goods. The second, I don't know; but the first, requisition the goods. They have made a law that they know is illegal and that we believe it will not have much to go on, but trying to legislate illegality does not lead anywhere and it does create frustration to those who had some expectations about its adoption. Look – and I'm finishing – I consider myself liberal. But being a liberal does not mean that I like that the Administration wants to give normality to the consumption of any kind of addictive substance or drug; that, in the end, they all harm the person who consumes them and often also affects coexistence in their most immediate and familiar environment. Everyone can do with his life whatever he wants – whatever he wants – but from the Administration he cannot afford to boost the consumption of any kind of drugs; if anything, do the opposite. The good quality of life, life, is worth much more than any kind of drug, be it legal, illegal, hard or soft. For all these reasons, our vote cannot be favourable. Thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.158.0	Quiet, and please. Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. [[Some applause.]] Next, in order to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Sí, has the word Ms. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.159.0	Excuse me, I thought I was playing the last one. Thank you, President. I would like to begin by thanking the companies and companies of my parliamentary group for their trust in me so that I can bring this law, to which I have tried to correspond, providing all the information and trying to clarify all the doubts that arise to all the people who have asked me. I've said it before, it was a pleasure and a magnificent experience to be able to carry this law. I stole the words, two words said by the deputy Albano Dante: "debate of height; we have not had much during the appearances, intensely, of all the people expert in many areas, as I have already been able to detail before, and during the time, also, of law, in which the commission of the promoter has also participated. That social reality passes us over many times, that is obvious; that in this case there are already many cannabid associations in Catalonia, too; now that the same associations are taking us through an ILP that we give them a clear legal framework, asking for regulation, and that the Parliament of Catalonia is making it, is relevant. We arrive here after years of self-regulation by the same associations, which were also looking for their fit within the company and the legal framework. And now we are before a regulation that has counted not only with the same associations, but also with participation on the part of all the areas that affect or have application of this regulation; I have detailed it before: different government departments, from the non-judicial and right-wing spheres, but from the sphere of public safety, the field of agriculture and all other areas in which this regulation has application. I would like to put a little context of the debates that have already taken place in the Parliament of Catalonia, in anticipation of the handling of this law. All of them may seem futile, but today we show that it is not so, that it should be done, that it should be debated in advance, that it should be necessary to put oil, to plant machinery in Parliament, as it was quite outside, also, in order to be able to bring the law here. The Catalonian Parliament had already approved various times also parliamentary initiatives that called for the regulation of associations of people who consume cannabis; resolutions on public health matters– the Salvation Department approved the resolution, in 2015, on public health criteria for associations– that served the assembly to find out where they were and where they could apply their orders; the debate was opened on risk prevention and harm reduction, and, as has been said, we finally ended up with the Catalan society bringing to the Catalonian Parliament an initiative collected for many signatures. We believe – and I don't just think so, and I also want to address it directly to the deputy of Ciutadans – that yes, this law provides a framework for security, trust and tranquility: for associations, for their associates, for administration, also for assembly and for the different areas of public services that are seen in one way or another, from the police to justice, also. And it must be a lençol, from this trust and tranquillity, for the people in general. It is true – and we can't deny it – that this is a subject that can generate and generate negit. Because they can say that we're talking about drug policies. And we don't store it, and we're running away from the taboos we had. This negociity, however, is not painful in itself; it probably makes us more alert and does not fall into mistakes that may have been made for what it does to other substances such as alcohol and tobacco. Therefore, I cannot agree with you absolutely, absolutely, when you say that this law makes the same mistakes that have been made with alcohol like tobacco. Because you know that the work of the police has been concerned because this is not the case, you know that the ILP did not have this will, and you know that the final text does not make the mistakes that have historically been made with alcohol and tobacco. We were made very clear by the Deputy Director-General of Drugs of the Government of Catalonia: from a liberalised mark to a prohibitionist mark in the other, there is a parable drawn where the two extremes present high risks and the middle part, which is broad – which is broad – with lower risks, is where we find all the possibilities and all the opportunities for a regulation that manages these risks, with the prevention of all possible risks, and also envisages the reduction of damage as a premise for regulation. And in this width of the middle is where this law is found, deputy of the People's Party; in this width of the middle is where this law is found. There's a very clear majority in this Parliament that says it's where it's supposed to be. That is why we believe that the contribution that the Catalonian Parliament can make today in introducing a new regulatory experience in a global context, where we look between different countries and regions where there are eventually regulatory processes and learn from each other, will not only be welcome for Catalonian citizenship, but also for the citizenship of many other rights. We are not doing anything that has not been done or that has not been planted every time to the most right of the world, but we are taking a step to contribute to this new current from Catalonia. And, plus, we do it in a solvent way. We return, with this contribution, to those who have brought to us comparisons that we have also had from other countries and that have explained to us their experience in regulation, from Uruguay, from Mexico, from Holland, from Colorado, and also experts in international law. We are told that the World Commission on Drug Policy is raising flexibility; that this approach of flexibility is crucial, unlike general prohibitions, and that successful regulatory models will be those that continue to adapt and evolve in response to changing circumstances. And that's why it's a regulation that can monitor and evaluate these policies across the broad spectrum, the position, and the denial. She added that, in this case per writing, the researcher from the Dret Department of Queen Mary, University of London, said the precise details of any brand and how they evolve should be decided locally. In this case, "locally it does not refer to municipalities, but it does not have to be through states but of realities; based on specific realities, opportunities and reptes, instead of impositions from dalt. This is the current that is taking the most strength at the international level, and this is what we are applying today to the Parliament of Catalonia: a flexible interpretation of international drug control conventions with the principles of human rights and harm reduction to facilitate regulation of the supply of cannabis outside illicit markets. That's what we're doing today. This was highlighted by many of the appearances that we held in public. And the ILP and we and most of this Parliament respect the reality that we have in Catalonia today with this law. Human rights are based on the dignity of people. All the fundamental rights of personal identity, freedom and free development of personality derives from the recognition of human dignity. That's what we're taking back to the state, too, and that's where we are today to regulate. And here, Mrs Ciutadans, we have all the competitions, I know very hard to say. But you have based your intervention on unconstitutionality, and it seems to me that frivolous phrases like 'Madrid does not let us smoke porros do not close to the debate that we have indeed held in this position and respect for the people who brought us here an ILP that was ambitious but serious. You say that the opinion will not have legal certainty because a law cannot contradict a higher law, and that we must have..., that we cannot skip our laws and that we must respect the law in force. And on top of that, then, that we want... that what we're looking for is the participation of civil society. You have it here, the participation of civil society, honourable Member. There were 65,000 signatures that came in the form of a popular legislative initiative to the Parliament of Catalonia, and to which you are turning your face, posing side by side in this case of the People's Party. And the more you tell us – and the more you tell us; I feel it, MP – that we are not going to Congress of Deputies, all the less the UPC because there is no representation, to do work there. You will say this to the faces of the deputies... – and you know very hard, for the members of the parliamentary group who are now putting a bar on us, for a second, which is not Junts for the Yes –, you will say it to the faces of the deputies Joan Tardà, Alfred Bosch and other deputies of the Republican Left who have been carrying initiations to the Congress of Deputies for many years, in this respect? I don't think he'll dare. Frustration, I think the door to your intervention that you made here today. And it's hard for me to be so hard, because I really wanted it to be a day of celebration. I think I deserve the people who brought the ILP to Parliament and I think I deserve the majority of Parliament we got here. And we do. And the base of the ILP knows that it is collected in the State of Catalonia and in all laws, and based on human rights. The message I have spoken about before, of trust and confidence in the citizenry in general, is about the current data, where the cannabis – yes, Member of the People's Party – is the most resourceful substance for the drug control machinery in terms of current interpretations for the application of laws and a judicial and criminal system, given that it is one of the most extensive non-institutionalized substances. All the data you've presented to us here at the end, what they're showing us is that the policies we've had so far don't work. And what I said before is: "We open this path of opportunity. And you know that we've done it with a lot of responsibility and control, and that it's true that it doesn't embrace everything, and that it's true that this law won't end up with the illegal market, because for now we're respecting an ILP that regulates cannabic associations, and it's not an integral regulation. But don't lock the door. In the same way that I have not had any inconvenience in recognizing, in fact, that your contribution to the question has been very good and that the other Members have also listened to you and we have taken into account many things that you have said to us, also so vehemently to tell you that it will be a huge mistake if the Government of the People's Party in Madrid, as we have been accustomed to lately, does not listen to what is above with a majority approval of the Parliament of Catalonia and, above all, comes from a popular legislative initiative. I feel obliged to tell you that this will be a huge mistake on your part. And I hope they don't, that they don't cool it, and that the People's Party over there listens to you and you can share that it's been a serious and uphill debate. We want to turn these data, we want to turn this way of doing politics and assume that in a regular context the reduction of damage derived not only from its consumption, but from the existence of all these illicit markets, can be managed much better. This is the path to opportunities. Introducing the perspective of this risk management and prevention is key to effective regulation. That's why he imposed the body of follow-up on this law, which also noted Congressman Raúl Moreno and which I think he has exposed very well in his exposition, which we have regulated to the law. It's not true that we've opened the door at all. And I said it, and they taught us this with a chart: from liberalization to prohibitionism, we have all this broad way of the mile. We're on this broad path. It seems to me that these people who are here today, who fought and who collected 65,000 signatures, did so in a very responsible way, knowing that we also found ourselves on this broad path. We go where we are, and it doesn't embarrass us to say that we can go to the Congress of Deputies to ask for a regulation, because we have always done so and because we believe that this wide way that we have here between us can give a solution to some facts that, as the deputy of the PP said, we don't pride ourselves on anyone. All right, all right, I know it's hard, in the end, this vehemence. I'm really satisfied and very happy. [[The Orator is Emotional]] ...to be able to approve this law. [[Greetings. Pause.]] I give them many thanks. I believe that this time the Parliament of Catalonia is at the height of the respect of civil society, and I return everything you have given us. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.160.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vergés. Next, to fix his position, has the word "Mr Sergi Saladié", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.161.0	All right, thank you, President. First of all, good afternoon to everyone. And on behalf of the CUP - Creed We want to congratulate the work done on the more than two-hundred entities, three-hundred fedatari involved in the gathering of signatures, and the more than sixty-thousand signatures that have allowed us to open this parliamentary debate of the ILP of associations of people who consume cannabis. Thanks to this work that you have done, an advance has been made in the recognition of the fundamental rights of people in Catalonia and that it will surely be a reference at international level. While the ILP procedures are a little bit, let's say, archaics and that, therefore, it would be useful to simplify them to make the exercise of democracy a way, say, less complicated, it has come to complete its way, and therefore we rejoice. As the company Bernat Pellisa said, almost a year ago, when this ILP was exposed on behalf of the promoters here in his parliament, it was appropriate to deal with this law, which will certainly bring benefits to the citizens of Catalonia and which will also bring greater protection from the salvation of people. Indeed, the approval of this law we understand will reflect a greater knowledge of the cannabic reality and an effective recognition of individual and collective rights and freedoms. And, as Bernat said, we also hope that the approval of this law will be the beginning of overcoming a dogmatic and inefficient drug policy and that once and for all it will end with the prohibitionism and the costs these policies entail for society. With regard to our position, as CUP - Crida Constituent, on this ILP, and gathering the reflections that at the time was made by Companion Benet in the debate of totality of a year ago, we have treated this law as it is, an initiative that sees from the street, and as such we have interfered zero in its processing and we have obeyed the democratic mandate that supports this initiative. Because that's how we understand what it's like to be in these institutions: transmission correction, a little bit to Parliament and thousands on the street. Even though the position of the UPC is at the front against prohibitionism and we are in favour of full legalization..., clearly and fully of the cannabis, we did not seem adient or dare to open this debate on whether this parliamentary procedure should be carried out. As we informed the promoters of the parliamentary process, our paper was to give full support to the ILP as the proponents entered it, and that is why we have not submitted any papers. At all times we have guided you to your directions to the ponència. We always say, "What do the proponents say, Alba? We always have this paper. And so we have behaved during this process, trying to ensure that it is not distorted or matched by the feeling or the ultimate objective of this popular legislative initiative. And in this way, following your instructions, we will give full support to the opinion of this law, as well as to the reserved documents, which we believe that if they are approved today, they will improve this text even more. For what you've told us, with the people I've been able to talk about, you're not strong enough, as the law has remained. We know that there are a lot of little things left for the road, other things have not just profiled as we might want; that the law certainly does not give an answer to all the realities of consumers and consumers, but it is a recognition for all the collectivities and people you are part of. And we understand, for what we have said, that the bulk of your proposal has remained intact, when not improved in some respects. And this, taking into account the current parliamentary configuration and with the extraterrestrials of the PP reminding each two for three that this law goes to the Constitutional Court, so it can be considered a success. Let us hope that with this law we will initiate it, so I am moving it to banish a lot of social and institutional hypocrisy that allows some drugs to be legalized and not others. A hypocrisy, as the Benet recalled, which we have placed in labyrinths over the use of cannabis while the drug traffickers' mafias, meanwhile, camped in the open. Self-care of rights, self-management, self-consumption, self-supply, and personal or territorial projects linked to the profit of cannabis, as in his day promoted the same Bernat to Rasquera, let us hope that they will become part of the new normality. They understand, therefore, this as a first step towards the full legalization of the cannabis, a first step that will need to be defended disobediently before the embatts of the Spanish State in the form of a constitutional court. A defense that we hope, however, that it will be for a few months and that this law will be of full standard and force to the new Catalan republic. Visca Catalunya free cannabica. Hey, guys! [[Strong applause and chililets.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.162.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Saladié. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. Mrs. De la Calle, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.163.0	Yes, by allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.164.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.165.0	Yeah. I'd like to tell Mrs Vergés that for yelling more, she's no longer right. And what is really disrespectful is trying to sell the bike to those people who are going to trust a law that you have sold as a rights guarantor without recognizing that there is a part that will bring many problems precisely to those you intend to protect, and my obligation was to remember it. Even so, I am glad, despite the tone you have used, that, well, we have been able to agree on most of the..., most of the law, and that, well, the debate has been opened and the focus has been on an issue that has so much social support. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.166.0	Thank you, Mrs. De la Calle. [[Long break.]] Mrs Vergés, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.167.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.168.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.169.0	I'm sorry, Congresswoman. I just don't... I don't see it. Ah, there. I'm sorry, Mrs Naomi, I can't agree that you say that this Parliament and these parliamentary groups are coming on a motorcycle, when this is a popular legislative initiative for civil society, with 65,000 signatures, a deputy. And parliaments are about to legislate and generate rights, and that's exactly what we're doing today. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.170.0	In the first place, let us proceed to the vote of the transactional emena on the Emena number 90, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, and the Papers number 94 and 114, of the Parliamentary Group Catalonia Yes that is Pot. The vote begins. The items were approved by 120 votes to 8, with 1 abstention. Let us now proceed to the vote on the reserved items of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Vote for items 14, 18, 27, 32, 41, 43, 50, 63, 66, 99 and 107. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 25 votes in favour, 103 against and no abstentions. We will then vote, now, on the reserved issue of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, number 102, apart 5. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 61 votes in favour, 67 against and no abstentions. Let us now proceed to the vote on the items of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. We vote for the emena... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They've taken them out. Okay. From the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, we vote the exams number 3, 4, 20, 81, 82, 85 and 93. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 8 votes in favour, 120 against and 1 abstention. Then we'll vote, now, the theme number 31. The vote begins. The item was rejected by a vote in favour, 103 against and 25 abstentions. [[Widow's remorse.]] We're voting now for the 55th. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 23 votes in favour, 96 against and no abstentions. And then we will vote on the text of the bill's proposal. First of all, we vote on the following paragraphs and articles: Article 4 (c); Article 7 (d); Article 11b; Article 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 of Article 11c; Article 11d; Article 1, 1a, 2 and 4 of Article 12; Article 1, 2, 4 and 5 of Article 12a; Article 13 (2). The vote begins. The articles were approved by 94 votes to 32, with 1 abstention. We shall now vote on the rest of the text of the opinion on the proposal for a law. The vote begins. The proposed law of cannabis users has been approved by 118 votes in favour, 8 against and 1 abstention. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia to support human rights defenders in Colombia]] [[401-00028/11]] Reading the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia of support and for the protection of human rights defenders in Colombia. Then, according to Rule 166 of the Rules of Procedure, we will read the Declaration of the Catalan Parliament of Support and for the protection of human rights defenders in Colombia, which has been signed by all parliamentary groups. Before starting reading please greet, on behalf of the chamber, the representatives of the different entities in defense of human rights in Colombia who are accompanying us today at this plenary session. [[Greetings.]] I pass the word to the third secretary, Mr. Joan Josep Nuet, because I can start reading the statement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.171.0	« Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia to support human rights defenders in Colombia. In Colombia, despite the pau process, the past year has witnessed an alarming increase in homicides and attacks by armed groups on human rights defenders. While the number of civilian victims of direct fighting between the belligerent parties has decreased, there has been a worrying increase in targeted attacks against human rights defenders, especially against community leaders and activists who defend the right to land and the environment and campaign in favour of the pau process or fight against impunity for abuses against human rights. According to the Colombian organization We are Defenders, the year 2016 was the murder of eighty human rights defenders. In view of this situation, the Colombian authorities have adopted more effective and comprehensive protection mechanisms that guarantee the safety of communities at risk. If the authorities do not ensure the urgent protection of these communities, they can lose many more lives. Amidst attacks there are armed groups, including paramilitary groups, which have increased their activities to take over the territories previously controlled by the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, FARC, territories that are resource-rich and that can be exploited economically. The Office of the United Nations High Commission for Human Rights in Colombia has repeatedly warned of the increase in paramilitary activity and the risks involved. Among the many cases of people and organisations at risk for human rights work, the Catalonian Parliament expresses special support for the Movice-Sucre organisation, the National Movement of Victims of State Crimes, for its connection with Catalan civil society, and other associations working for human rights in Colombia. Colombia is in a historic moment of pau construction, but this pau cannot involve more impunity. Without justice there will be no real dick. That is why the victims must be guaranteed right to the truth, justice and reparation. In this sense, the role of defenders is fundamental to the construction of the cock. But this little cannot be built with impunity for abuses and violations of human rights. For this reason, the Catalan Parliament expresses its support for the task of activists and community leaders and asks the Colombian authorities to protect them effectively so that they can continue to work for the defence of human rights. Palau del Parlament, June 28, 2017. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.172.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. [[Proposition of the law of creation of the Lluçanès region (debate of totality)]] [[202-00045/11]] The sixth point of the order of the day is: debate of totality on the proposition of the law of creation of the region of Lluçanes. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, and insofar as it is a legislative initiative promoted by a joint delegation, the Member appointed by the rapporteur to make the presentation may intervene. There's the word Mrs. Adriana Delgado.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.173.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors, deputies. Greetings to the mayor and mayor of the Lluçanese people who are accompanying us today, as well as to the secretary of local administrations and the director general of local administration of the government department. First of all, a thank you to all the Members of the parliamentary groups who have been part of the joint debate, who with different but clear positions have facilitated the work that we had led. Even the presentation of papers to the totality of some groups I have to thank the sincere and constructive attitude of all, the good understanding and the work done. Also a thank you to the manager, the mayor, and especially to the caster, Mr. Bayona, for his work, patience and help, and, obviously, to the mayor, with whom we have also met and explained their differences of opinion and to whom we expect in our own appearances. Thank you to all of them. Well, as you know, Lluçanès is a region formed by thirteen municipalities, which has long claimed to be able to face together the present reptes that they already have on the table and also the capital reptes of the future that they will be able to face with guarantees of success. That's why I'm also going to talk about where we're coming from to hear where we're better and where we want to go, with this approval of the region's law of legal recognition. We are talking about a geographically differentiated territory from the regions that are developing it, small municipalities that, apart from geographical characteristics, history or common social relationships, can share the same projects, optimize resources, pool services and manage them from the necessary proximity, and can generate and share strategies of development, sustainability, occupation, economic dynamism, tourism, etc. And if they don't do it together, they have a lot harder. And we don't start from scratch, Lluçanès decided, years ago, to work together from a time when the thirteen assemblies would form part of it. First, it was the autonomous organization El Grau, in the month 1999, which immediately became the Consortium for the Promotion of the Municipalities of Lluçanès, 2001. Years, therefore, of the establishment of synergies, with a few more prolific than others, but with economic, political and socially positive results for people and for the territory. A job, therefore, that is endorsed by the good results. Despite this, based on the Spanish LRSAL controversy, the Law of Rationalization of the Local Administration, the consortium suffers because it has to join the Assembly of Prats and because of the non-consolidation neither legal nor policy of this organ, which, at the same time, created the challenges for it: depopulation of the territory, lack of capacity to apply strategies of development, of making investments, access to programs, aids, investments, etc. Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, deputies and political representatives in general, we have an obligation to give answers to the needs of the territories and their people. We have the challenge of fulfilling this responsibility. At the same time, Catalonia also has the task and the commitment to build a new model of territorial organization, a new set of skills that we need to get closer to people, that we need to bring solutions, optimize resources and improve services, as we said before. We must age for territorial balance, and we cannot help the rural world. This is an asymmetric country, we all know it, and we need to give adequate answers to the various territories and their conditions. In the case of Lluçanès, after years of claim, the procedure was officially initiated to bring forward the law of creation of the region, the year 2010, from agreements of municipal plenarys. As a result of this step, which was taken by the assemblies, the Department of Governance opened the letter that was completed for the positive reports of the Territorial Delimitation Commission and the Legal Advisory Commission. So, they took steps towards the region's recognition and it was from a motion approved in this Parliament, in 2014, on the creation of the Moianes and Lluçanès regions, which was urged by the Government to start the process of carrying out a citizen consultation in these areas because the citizenry was able to refer to it, even though the law on the creation of the regions did not foresee it. At Lluçanès, in this case, the consultation took place on July 26, 2015, now..., just a few days ago it will be two years ago. Okay. The consultation and its results completed the pre-requisites granted for Governance, for the mayors of the territory, to end up making the law of creation of the region. From that call, let's highlight the participation: it was more than 55_per_cent, when it was fixed a minimum of 35_per_cent, and obviously the victory of the yes, with 70,73_per_cent of the votes. And all this, unfortunately, is complete, just after a municipal election and at the door of the dissolution of Parliament. Okay. Beyond these overall results, it is true that, if we zoom in on the results per people, in five municipalities the 'no' was more voted out, but in eight municipalities, so the 'yes' came out, which is the result we have in store. In order to seek balance and manage these results in the best possible way, after meetings, encounters, therefore, we opted for the parliamentary procedure that we are living, that we are doing today, through joint debate, slower but also more open and with more debate, even if there is someone who says otherwise. There have been, therefore, months of negotiations, more meetings and more encounters. And after the debate to the totality that has place now, therefore, the procedure will continue, will take a step further, with the appearances, with points to the articulation, and, in short, and I repeat, more debate in order to be able to officially recognize, by the end, the region of Lluçanès. During the drafting work, the ponència was also reunited with the mayors and mayors of the municipalities, where it was possible to see that there are obviously various opinions. And so, out of that found, we included two changes to the proposal of the initial law. In the preamble, the text expresses in a differentiated way the willingness to create a specific region, unique, adapted to the territory and society in the network, agile, flexible, efficient, little bureaucratic and with the necessary assumptions and the minimum costs of functioning. And that takes into account the challenges of the local world and of today's people for the benefit of all the inhabitants. And, as an additional arrangement, the possibility to stay out of the region for the five municipalities that do not want to form part of it, the five municipalities where the "no" came out, precisely seeking that they do not feel obliged by iniciators and can make this decision. It was the best legal form to do so, because there can be no new ways of regional change if it is not passed through a legislative decision, bearing in mind that this requirement is what the Catalonia Regional Organization Law establishes. Now, like I said, so, there's room for more debate. In short, what we are doing is continuing to pay tribute to what the people voted for, to which Parliament approved and to the work that was in charge of the joint debate. This Parliament, therefore, cannot give it the bait, all the contrary. We support the creation of the region of Lluçanès and the majority of its citizens have decided to do so. And we will continue to do the ordinary legislative process, which before it was clearly stated, you see all those involved and you respond to the majority's will. As in all this process, which we are taking a step further today, we need to work for this reality and to give solutions to everyone's benefit, without ever forgetting what we do for people, which is ultimately the most important. Thank you very much. And visca lluçanès. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.174.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Three papers have been presented to the totality, by the parliamentary groups of Ciutadans, People's and Socialist Party. In the first term, the representative of the Socialist Party, Mrs. Eva Martínez, has the word to defend the threat to the totality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.175.0	Thank you very much. MPs, MPs, Councillors, in the first place I want to greet the people of Lluçanès who are accompanying us today – mayors, directors, also those people who are following us from the Parliament Canal, also the representatives we have today from the Department of Governance and also those people who have consciously decided not to come today. The movement in favour of the creation of the Lluçanese region is a process, Adriana, our rapporteur, has already explained it very well, that it has not been so many years. It has been raised by different political forces, by entities, citizens and citizens, who expressed their needs in a non-binding consultation held two years ago. Therefore, in the first place, from the Socialist Group we want to recognize the task, and congratulate the promoters, because today we can be here in Parliament debating this issue. And it's not the first time, this Parliament has already expressed its support for the creation of the region in a motion approved in 2014. Nevertheless, the text that is presented, the text presented by the ponència, does not reverse the will of the thirteen municipalities, and, above all, does not generate the necessary consensus for a change in the regional reality. And the most tangible proof is that today should be a vote, so historical, a first step, and it won't be, right? And, if there's any consensus, I think there'd be representatives from all the municipalities in the future region, and that's not it. From the Socialist Group we do not believe that the creation of a region based on the creation of the Moianese region follows the solution to the expectations that were generated in the territory and that were explained during the consultation in the region. There are many errors that will not be solved with the text presented and that from the first moment our group has tried, without success, to solve. In fact, today we're debating the issues at the totality of this proposal, which is from the month of generation to the coven. We do not understand why it is now apparent that since the Government of the Generalitat had made a proposal for pilot proof which seemed good to most of the municipalities. We believe that our job as parliamentarians is to seek the maximum consensus in the formula. The priority should be to be the citizens and to have the best services. At a historical moment when the expenditure of the administrations has been put into question, it would be useful to carry out an evaluation exercise, cost analysis and efficiency; and it is clear that the costs of setting up a new regional council are obvious, so we do not think that new institutions will be created, with costs, and that they will generate, moreover, false expectations. Therefore, from our group we keep the issue to the totality and ask the rest of the groups who have joined so as not to initiate a process against the expressed will at the polls. We ask Members and Members to redirect efforts to improve the services and opportunities of these municipalities, and we do not start a parliamentary process that does not have a single consent: that this text presented for questioning does not satisfy anyone. Before that, I would like to highlight five elements that support our position and would like the rest of the groups to consider. In the first place, the lack of transparency and information about the participatory process, since the specific rules of the consultation of July 26, 2015 were not transparent and changed on the march. The arrangements for the consultation specified that any municipality where the outcome of the process was denied, would be excluded. In fact, the newspaper El Punt Avui, on the same day of the consultation – here I have a copy – said, "If the newspaper did not impose itself in some municipalities of the periphery this town would continue to belong to the current region and that of Lluçanès could continue to go forward. But that wasn't like that. And we're thinking, and this information from El Punt today, where did it come from? So, from a press release issued for the governance council on July 17, 2015, the agreements reached with the mayors of Lluçanès were explained. In this note you can read: "The document issued today states that any municipality where the outcome of the process continues to be denied will continue to be registered with its current region. Inexplicably, on July 21st, five days after the consultation, the rules are changed. Certainly, in the preamble of the law it is said that all Lluçan meetings approved in plenary session the call and the specific rules of the participation procedure. We have not had access to these acts, since the file that is available on the Parliament's website is only the agreement of the plenary of the proceedings, i.e. the acts of the plenary of 2010, but not of 2015. Therefore, if all the approval and dissemination process of the specific rules of the participatory process and the consequences of it were not sufficiently known to the constituents, we may conclude that less known were still to the citizenry, that if they read the newspaper El Punt Yesterday they had false information. The second element is the result of the consultation, which leaves no doubt. There was no intention of the thirteen municipalities to form part of a single region. There are five municipalities where the « no: Sant Agustí de Lluçanès, Sant Boi de Lluçanès, Sant Bartomeu del Grau, Santa Maria de Merlès and Sant Feliu Sasserra. Moreover, these five municipalities do not represent a geographic continuity; as we can observe, therefore, on the map, the five municipalities are..., forming a geographic discontinuity of the region of eight municipalities. The question was clear: "Do you want your municipality to form part of the Lluçanès region? Five municipalities said no. And the consistors claim that the expressed will be fulfilled at the polls, that they do not want to be part of the region. In fact, 2,656 seven-year-old major voters voted affirmatively, representing 39_percent of the total 6,810 voters. The result was adjusted and only one of the conditions set out in Article 8 of the recast text of the Catalonia Regional Organization Law is fulfilled: the express consent of half of the municipalities affected, which must represent at least two thirds of the population of the region. In concrete terms, there are 5,543 people, inhabitants, who are 70_per_cent. I mean, it's up there, but about a 66 per cent that's a lot... well, we think it's an adjusted result. And what's most important, the difference in this process with the Moianès is very clear. There all the municipalities that make up the Moianès region, all of them – everyone – won the yes. The third element for presenting the issue to the totality is the lack of involvement of the Government of the Generality in the process and the failure of the agreements reached. The government through the governess had undertaken to present a plan of action for the future region and quantify five sets of resources with which the new region would count and where they would be brought to bear. This action plan had to specify the transition mechanisms together with a council of mayors and the local councils of Osona, Bergedà and Bages. And it had to be concrete how the services that are currently equipped with other district councils would look like. As we know in the last few months we have experienced a process involving local governments. in order to define the territorial organization and the local Catalan mark. A participatory process that coincided in part with the ponència. It would have been logical to finish the participatory process, define the local government law and define the local bond law. Strictly speaking, it should have been clear that and then modified the map of the territorial organization. And, therefore, we do not understand that there are so many presses to create a region that will not be fully operational until the municipal elections of 2019. In fact, the opinion issued by the legal advisory committee warned of the incongruity of creating co-operations when the current standard framework establishes veggiery and municipalities as basic territorial organizations. Thus, this report questions whether the area planted by Lluçan is the most appropriate territorial area to achieve the principles of efficiency, decentralisation, participation and subsidiarity with the provision of public services. This report also alerts you to the need to subrogate staff from the local councils of Osona, Bages and Bergedà, or that you serve as school caterers, waste collection, provision of social services or water supply or purification would no longer be applicable in the municipalities of the new region. So the house is starting for the roof. The only reality is that the government had to present a bill of local governments and local finance in the first quarter of 2017 and this did not complement. As I've explained before in this Faristol, there's a double ratio of which are parliamentary commands to be completed and which are not. And the local world, for this government, can wait. The fourth element is the same text presented for the pose. The text is a "burd copy of the Law of Creation of the Moianes". This was a question that met a little, that did not want to go into the detail of the needs and problems of the territory, nor to respond to the demands of the consistors. In fact, a time created the commission we knew that since the Consortium of Lluçanès a letter had been issued to the president of the Commission of Governance, Public Administrations and Habitat in which all the mayors of the area were addressing the editorial board, gathered on October 1, 2016. In this letter it was asked that the new region year after year beyond the current laws, which was specific, unique and adapted to the territory. It was also demanded that the mayors and councillors of Lluçanès have a greater involvement in painting and writing, and invite us to find the territory to convey their various and varied concerns to us. And before that, the ponència wanted to pull forward the text yes or yes, without listening to any of the territories, without government reports, without debate about alternative formulas, without analyzing the impact with existing servers. But finally, and after a lot of insistence, it was achieved that the ponència is reunited with the mayors, that they moved us that the municipalities..., that they wanted to modify the text, in the sense that the municipalities that they voted did not initially form part of the region, and that the new region year beyond the current laws. Even this gathering, as well as the words of the elects, their requests were not escorted. This, yes, was added an article that allows the exit of the municipalities that voted not, with a transitional arrangement of modification of the region, but with a formula that implies making a modification of the law. I mean, do the same procedure that's going on right now, but in a future legislature. There is no sense of incorporating some municipalities that have already manifested, by ballot boxes and by their constituents, that do not want to form part of it. Therefore, doubling the work with the uncertainty of which Parliament's composition will be in proper legislatures. The last consideration is the news that appeared this June under pressure, and rebuttal for the constituents, of the proposal made for the Department of Governance, a proposal for a resolution delivered to Junts for the Yes for the recognition of the Lluçanes area; a proposal to make a pilot proof of the creation of a council of mayors such as the governing organ and the Consortium of Lluçanes as the executing organ; a proposal that we do not have parliamentary groups but has been well received since the territory. Really, what's embolism – what's embolism –: how did you feel to present a pilot test proposal and then continue the parliamentary process of creating a region? What's wrong with you? I'll tell you what, you hear me. Today's deal is a deal for the gallery. It is only explained by the composition of Junts for the Yes. Even though today I continue the process of the law's proposal, we believe that it does not give time, in this legislature, to be able to approve it, if it is true and complete the dates given by the same government. Therefore, and summarizing: lack of transparency and information of the participatory process. The result of the consultation leaves no doubt: five municipalities do not want to be part of it. Lack of involvement of the Government of the Generality and failure to comply with Parliament's orders. Imposition of a text that does not reverse the territorial proposals and is unable to seek consensus, as well as the government's extreme proposal for a pilot test. And I ask myself: if we are unable to give guarantees in a democratic process that affects thirteen municipalities and eight thousand inhabitants, do we believe that this parliamentary majority will give guarantees to a process of 948 municipalities and 7 million inhabitants? A copy of the Moianès is not a good solution, and all Members of the House know it. It is necessary to seek the maximum consensus in the formula. The priority is the citizens, and they can get the best of you. The PSC has been on the side of popular will, which in this case is not unanimous. A parliament should not impose a region on the municipalities that have voted that do not want to form part of it. In any case, if the text advances we will work, as now, to demand transparency, rigour, efficiency and efficiency in the management of public services, and to give you a view of the territory, and because the views of minorities are not slashed by the ballot box. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.176.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martinez. Next, to defend the emena presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr. Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.177.0	President, deputies, deputies, mayors of « yes of Lluçanès, citizens of Lluçanès, a few days ago we had the opportunity to discuss the proposed law of suppression of the region of Barcelones in this chamber, giving a step in the territorial reorganization of Catalonia, a region of 2,205,803 inhabitants. We find ourselves today before a debate to the full on the law's proposal of all the contrary: the creation of a new region. For consistency, we have presented a totality statement to the Proposition of the Law of Creation of the Lluçanes region, which I will argue further, trying to add to our arguments to which they have already expressed themselves. Lluçanès – allow me a small introduction – is a region – because it is a natural and historical region. It is a high that is found in the transition between two conques, that of the Ter and that of the Llobregat, between two geographic spaces that are the plane of Vic and the Prepirineu, and that has served as a connection space between three current administrative regions: the Bages, Osona and the Berguedà. It currently counts with 400_kilometres_squares and an approximate population of eight_th thousand inhabitants. This implies a low population density– twenty_inhabitants_per_quilometre_square–, for only some high-mountain Catalan communities and beyond the population density of the Osona or Bages communities, with 125 or 129_inhabitants_per_quilometre_square. In absolute terms, the new region would be the third with the least population of all Catalonia, behind the High Ribagorça and the Pallars Sobirá. Why did I introduce these data? Because we have to assume the territorial reality that we are talking about before we take decisions on administrative changes that determine the government of Catalonia. To our other data we clearly doubt the viability of a new administrative unit that has to carry out a territorial management with a regional law that gives it the same skills that consells propers like that of the Eastern Valley, with a population of 400,000 inhabitants, or Osona, that has 155,000 inhabitants. Precisely we see the contrast with this last council, from which would come a good part of the municipalities that would integrate the new region. Do you think that the new region can effectively improve the current work done by regional councils and the current consortiums? We don't think so. First motiu. I think that's the first reason we're presenting the message to the totality. But as long as we are and I have time – because I might end up here, but I think I have time – I will make a brief historical review of the proposal that we are dealing with today. Catalonia's comarcalytization had different proposals at the beginning of the 20th century, but I want to focus on two: a first, realized during the Mancommunitat for Pere Blasi, which refers to historical and natural comarcas, and there, there appeared the Lluçanès. I did, as I said before – and that is why I want to focus on it – as in the natural and historical region. The second – and very important – is the one that came out of the Generality in charge of the Sabadellenc Pau Vila in 1931. The question had as its objective to realize a proposal for extended governance of the tendency to describe the natural space that many geographers were doing, and to devote it to the better of the administrative management of the territory. For this reason it was done the regional management based on different aspects, modern for the time and for the moment: establish socioeconomic relations and trade flows as determining axes over the proposals like that made by Blasi. With these variables, the municipalities, all the municipalities of Lluçanès, were located in different administrative districts, and this was reflected in the Implementation Decree of the Region that was approved in 1936. Natural region versus administrative region. The recovery of democracy and the adoption of the 1978 Constitution and the Statute of Catalonia brought about the recovery of that marketing project, and that was 1987. But a proposal was being implemented based on a territorial argument of the thirties and, therefore, we created a law that was already obsolete. We had the opportunity to implement a different territorial model, but in the end we maintained a system of duplication between local councils and councils, made worse with the Law of Vegueries. Fortunately, there have been new and more modern forms of territorial administration, such as the Barcelona Metropolitan Area, but in the existing administrative disorder it brings little more than some hope to find a way to a modern administration of the 21st century. In this ecosystem that I have defined, historical and of reality, there have been new territorial fragmentations, and one of them, for us, is the proposal we have today on the table. If the division of 1936 did not contemplate it, we think that there is currently no reason to do so. On the contrary, social, economic and service flows generated by the capitals of Osona, Berguedà and Bages since 1987 have extended even further to create this administrative region. But it is that, in fact, we believe that the current system of administration does not serve, either, to improve the quality of the services that are provided to the territories. Therefore, it addresses the totality of this law and sends, as we repeat many times, a good part of our territorial model. In Ciutadans we defend the existence of a supermunicipal administrative level, a level that is found between reinforced municipalities in their autonomy and their funding, and the autonomous community. A level that does not have to be homogeneous and with the same skills throughout the territory, but that must be able to adapt to this territory, generating spaces, when calgui, metropolitans, where necessary, as it has passed or passed to Barcelona or as it is asked to the Vallès, and maintaining models more appropriate to the communities, to other territorial realities, but, yes, in territorial units that, for us, must be greater than the current comarques, since we must adapt the Administration to a reality that has improved accessibility to the territory in different aspects in this 21st century. Because it is obvious that, for example, it is not the same time to access a regional capital today as 1936, or that it does not cost us the same to communicate today between two points to a territory than 1936. Therefore, the reduction of accessibility time to the territory allows us to expand the space that is managed by administrative unit. We need to summarize this reality to a law of local governments, a law of local governments that neither the government will make this legislature – that has already been said –, as well as maintaining a mandate, or a few mandates of this Parliament, with different resolutions approved by the plenary and committees, democratic mandates that for some are surely of second nature, but for us they have a great democratic legitimacy. In fact, for us they have a democratic legitimacy that may be insurmountable. We believe, therefore, that it will be the mark of this law, of this future law of local governments where we will find the administrative formula of the future suitable to Lluçanes. We know that there is obviously a legitimate feeling of belonging, which I will not discuss, but that for us it is not enough and, in fact, it is not, I believe, for a good part of the municipalities of Lluçanès. Because there is also political consensus to create the region in the traditional terms of this. The consultation process that took place – and this has already been said and I repeat – on July 26, 2015 gave a little clarification about the real will to create a new regional reality. At least, it went away from the broad consensus that it was seeking and that it was desirable. Five municipalities voted against forming part of the region and eight, in change, voted in favour. On November 22, 2016, at the meeting of the mayors that took place within the ponència, we believe that this reality was seen or was very reflected, or at least this is our vision. This reality did not and did not follow the text of which we are voting for this first term, because in the end the text obliges all the municipalities, the thirteen, to form part of the region, regardless of their position in the consultation carried out. It is obliged to form part of a new administrative unit, such as Lluçanès, municipalities that may not want to abandon their current links, but only an effective form of collaboration. We believe that we cannot force any citizen of the Lluçan territory to be part of an entity that, in order to manage the same services that it will now run, will need in a deficit resources that today only the Government of the Generality will be able to guarantee and that, in the end, we will pay all Catalans. By luck, there are times when the current provides unexpected recollections. She told Constellera Borràs a few weeks ago, two weeks ago, that maybe it was time to do a pilot test at Lluçanès. He proposed the creation of a council of voluntary mayors, which would be the governing body of the current Consortium of Lluçanès, with funding secured by the department, all in exchange for renouncing this own region project. I guess the mayors already know that, and they know it better than the MPs do. Actually, we didn't get this proposal. Let's imagine that the government will be able to explain them with a lot of pedagogy that Ciutadans was right, that maybe there was no need for a law proposal as we vote today. Therefore, we are grateful that the councillor is accompanying us, we are grateful for her support – yes, in a covert way – in this address to the totality that we are presenting today. Actually the government, the department, is creating a school in the world of political illusionism. I believe that in any case, we can add a further statement: I believe – and I can say this here – that there has been no real willingness on the part of the governance council to facilitate the creation of the Lluçanes region. We all know the department could have pushed her. He didn't do it. He left it in the hands of the group that supports the Government and in the hands of the Parliament, and here these groups have done everything possible to pass the time, "to rush the legislature, to press the territory that I accept this pilot proposal that now, curiously, coincides temporarily with the presentation that we have today. In short, all very confus. And, as you see, I think we have enough arguments to defend whether or not we have presented the item or that item to the totality. Even all we suspect can pass, or end up passing: that what we are doing today is voting for a text that will end up mutating or parked in a cove. I think some of them should do a reflection, the next reflection. I think everything, with a little courage, would have been easier, because a path, a strange process will have gone through, at the end of which there is only a frustration that I don't know if you can manage. We've wasted time and opportunity. Think about it. It's possible that this reflection could make her serve in a few months another time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.178.0	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Popular Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr Alberto Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.179.0	Madam President, Members, representatives of El Lluçanès... very briefly. What we present here today is nothing more or less, therefore, that the failure of a territorial drawing that was made in its day by the Generalitat of the regions of Catalonia. And why do we talk about failure? Recently here we discussed the abolition of the Barcelonès County Council to create a large metropolitan area that provides services to 2,800,000 people. The two Valleses, the East and the West, talk about trying to join or consort to serve 1_million_and_half inhabitants. And here we have a region of just nine thousand people, such as El Lluçanès. Something's failing. Some want to expand their territorial structure and others want to limit it. Are we against the creation of the region of El Lluçanès? No, not really. But is there a territorial consensus? No, no, It has been said here: of thirteen municipalities, eight say yes, five say no. The most curious thing is that of these municipalities that say yes, one, the mayor, defends the no, and another municipality where the no comes out, the mayor defends the yes. In other words, there is no consensus in the municipalities themselves. Is there a division of views? Obviously. Is there the right scenario to create a consensus region? No, no, And, moreover, without consensus for a region of nine_ thousand people that will affect territorially three regions – it has been said here –: Osona, El Bages and El Bergedà. Therefore, the territorial design that you want to make here today... there is no consensus, and it can also harm other regions. Perhaps the next line would be another, which would be grouping up in a municipality, creating a new municipality, for example. But, of course, I understand that every municipality wants to defend its own personality. And I understand that. But no, they go the difficult way, which is that of the region; that is, of nine thousand people. What cannot be done is to force any people to change their territorial boundaries if they have no absolute consensus of citizenship. Bringing this bill without territorial consensus is not the best way to start creating the region of El Lluçanès. What doesn't begin, doesn't end. And as I think it has become very clear our proposal I am finalizing. Because now what you were proposing was to do a pilot test. Man, experiments, with gas, not with territories or with people, although it seems that you are already very used to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.180.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. Next has the word, now, Mrs Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, to fix its position.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.181.0	Well, good afternoon. From Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, we have supported this text as a result of joint questioning and support its processing for three main reasons, which are the ones I will try to explain in my intervention. First of all to compliment the people of Lluçanès who voted in consultation two years ago. Secondly, in coherence with our position on these issues, on issues of territorial organization and municipalism. And, in the third place, to facilitate an open and necessary debate on a division of views on the subject: as has been seen in this Parliament, how it certainly exists in the country and how it clearly also exists in the territory. I'll explain. In the first place, he said: « To give compliment to that voted for the people of Lluçanès. And I also want to make a little history, certainly complementary to what the rapporteur has done before. In 2010, Lluçanès formally asked the Generalitat to be able to be constituted as a new region in the Catalan map. This proposal for co-arcasm was not answered by the Catalan Government. This obviously provoked protests and mobilizations of people in the territory, of people in Lluçanes, and complaints. Three years after that, the Catalan government approved a bill of local governments that closed the doors to the creation of this region for the criteria it set for the creation of communities. The project surprised and disturbed the people of Lluçanès, who were still waiting for an answer to that request that had been made three years earlier. And the platform "Lluçanès es comarca is mobilized to re-position the demand to be comarca on the political agenda. Finally, there was a motion in 2014 – she remembered earlier by the rapporteur. And from all this he ended the agreement with the Generalitat for, then yes, to make a citizen consultation to the people of Lluçanès, which was made just now two years ago: in June 2015. The criteria that were agreed for that consultation were fulfilled. It did not come out unanimously of 'yes' throughout the territory, but certain criteria had been laid down and those criteria were met. And, therefore, two years ago, what is there is a mandate to legislate on the subject; a mandate, certainly, to the Government of the Government of Catalonia. The surprise has been as time has passed and the Government of the Government of Catalonia, once more, has not completed its part and has not made a law text to harden it in Parliament. It was then when the parliamentary groups were asked to take the initiative of the Parliament to give an answer to that petition and to that mandate in a consultation. And that's how it was agreed to end up creating a joint stand to approve a basic text, which was what the Government of the Generality should have done, so that it could be processed and debated. And this is where we are now. What we have done is a joint challenge to create a basic text and, now, to open the process and debate with detail about the creation of the Lluçanès region. He said to them: "I have a reason why we support the handling of this law: for our position and the consistency with which we have been given in these matters. For us the criteria for the creation of new comarques should not be based exclusively on the population or technical criteria, caldria put in voluntary value of the municipalities, guarantee of services, efficiency, accessibility to the service and the will of the city. And that's what we think it should be at the time of creating or not creating a region of one size or another. We defend a model of local governments of proximity, flexible, adaptable to the singularities and peculiarities of our local map, and that ensures the territorial balance of the country and its sustainable development. We have a very different country, very different, where sometimes a small administration and sometimes a larger administration. For us, the region has to become the joint and complementary institutional space of the municipality, in order to increase the effectiveness and quality of municipal public services from full local autonomy and voluntary association, without duplication, but with sufficient resources to guarantee the public services of the vicinity. The problem is that this model that we defend regularly throughout the country; a flexible model, which adapts to territorial singularities, but a model applicable to the whole territory of Catalonia. We'll do ourselves a little favor to those who defend this type of adaptable model with singularities..., create it piece by piece, ad hoc, without a global view. This requires, therefore, a law of local governments, a law of local finance and a reform of territorial laws; a debate on a global territorial model; a debate on the role to be played or not to be played by regional councils, and on the territorial organization of supra-municipal institutions in general; a model that we want to play in territorial balance, that even decisions to the territory, that read the country in a non-radial way, just like the network of cities and towns, and that allows administrative simplification. Here, again, the warmest is in the water. And that, again, is the responsibility of the Government of the Generality. Because the government, this government that fills its mouth every day to talk about sovereignty and state structures, has still been unable to make any black proposal on white on the subject. But above all – and he said to them: "The third reason we support this processing of the law – is because we have the debate we need, and with light and tachographs, about whether or not we can create the region of Lluçanès. We are aware that both the result of the consultation made in 2015 and the volunteers expressed afterwards by the mayors and the assemblies affected show that there has been no unanimity in Lluçanès and between the people of Lluçanès to form a new region. We are also aware that not everyone shares the same concept, not just in the Lluçanes, about which is the utility of the region, and how this region is to be, and how formally the governing bodies of this region are to be. It seems to us a very licit debate, a very convenient debate of iron. And, in fact, we regret that we have come to this point without this debate well done. But that's the point we're in. And, when we arrived here, with that citizen consultation mandate, and we were transferred that mandate to the Parliament of Catalonia, we consider that the best way to do this debate is through this law, with transparency, listening to all the views, devoting all the time to it. And this we can do during the processing of this law with better conditions than could have been done in a joint door-locked pose. That is why this parliamentary group was very clear in the joint debate phase; the task to be done at that stage could only be to close a basic text – yes, it could be: short, stick, of the creation of the Moianès region, exact – to start making the debate, introducing, if calia, some clear specificity – and so we did, after listening to the mayors and mayors of the region; the mechanism to unwind, mayorss – and allow the debate of the processing to be done in which this debate will be guided by the processing of a law, with lights and takigraphs, not on the closed door, and which is doing the debate asking for all the concerns, differences and opinions that come from the table. It's true, as the PSC put it, that this has been an embolism. And more than I can be. To begin with, because from Juntes per el Si they do not agree between them, they do not have the same position. Therefore, it is clear that it is a matter of people who are simple and with many differences. What we don't think the Catalonian Parliament is doing is dodging the package. And we have taken up the issue and we have taken responsibility for it. And now we wish that the step we are taking today will allow the initiation of this process with a determined spirit on the part of all, that it is to make the necessary debates to find the best possible solution for the people of Lluçan, without losing the necessary perspective and coherence of a project that must be country-wide, thought throughout the country, that must be imagined straight and united and not in pieces. And, in fact, we want to be clear: it will be difficult for the claim that Lluçanès is a region and, therefore, this is coming to a good end if we are not able to find a formula that brings consensus to the territory and a sustainable model of the region. With this new mandate and spirit, it's what we're working on in this new phase of processing, which we're going to do today, yes, we're going to go ahead, and that's the hope we're going to work with the people of Catalonia, yes, it is. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.182.0	Thank you very much. Next comes the word Gabriela Serra, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.183.0	Good afternoon. You're in the family, huh? It's poquets, too. Today, we said earlier, our company Sergi – and Albanian has also said it, which is not there now – is a happy day and a day of congratulations. I agree. I look at my samarreta. Forty years ago, the LGTBI community in this country managed and struggled to estimate who they want, how they want and when they want. And that's important. [[Greetings.]] That said, that said, we've heard hard things, haven't we? , respects the Law Proposition of the creation of the Lluçanes region. We've heard from the socialist companies and the citizens' companies, also from the PP, talking about imposition, obligation... I think they've made a lot of precedents, but it might be worth remembering some of them. Caldria says that already in October 2012 there were twelve assemblies of the area that called for the creation of the region of Lluçanès; of these, new demanage the creation of the new region and form it directly, and three demanage the creation of the new region expressing the will to consult the people, at the time that it is decided, form part of it. Only one of the assemblies, Sant Bartomeu del Grau, did not pronounce on this petition. This request, this petition followed the procedures required for the formalization of the new region, and between 2010 and 2014 the consignment was submitted to the report of the Territorial Delimitation Commission, and which was substantiated in 2014. In the same way that the report to the Legal Affairs Committee was substantiated on June 14, and, as has already been said, on October 14, Parliament approved a motion to give green light, it gave little to the Lluçanès proposal. I don't know what dates the Socialist Companion will have, but we know that all the meetings that were approved by Ple were the call for consultation, the document of specific rules, as well as the voting places or the appointment of the members of the control bodies, the managers of the Bureau, the bank to ask for volunteers, the question, the period of the information campaign, the reservation of places, the public spaces for information... – it seemed like a 4th of the month you see, that's it, huh? In this sense, the agreement and the compromise was total. That was June 2015. And yes, the participatory process started. It is true – it is true – that there was a participation of 55.15 of the Christian people and a « yes of 70.73_per_cent of these votes. If these data do not confirm Lluçan's majority will to be an official region and that they have complied with the agreed requirements to give valid results, what results are the results that support this decision of Lluçan's region? Why? Because all the requirements have been fulfilled, the Catalonian company said so. Yes, it is Pot. The minimum participation was set at 35_per_cent and we had 55_per_cent. It was agreed that in the event of the result of the vote some of the municipalities said "it would not continue to proceed with the process, provided that this fact does not generate an important geographical disconformity. He didn't have to. The consent of the two thirds of the municipalities that were to form it was also agreed to represent, as a minimum, the half of the population of the region. It's also respectable. Therefore, the process must continue. It is true – it is true – that we have to be critical of the excessive delay that has passed from the holding of the consultation to hours of this time, as well, and it has been said, with the lack of transparency and often confusing information that has been facilitated. A delay and an opacity that has generated frustration and unbelief in the life of Lluçan. Now, the lack of consultation cannot be exposed today so as to face them with the wishes of being a region. We are connoisseurs..., the CUP - Creed We are connoisseurs of these shortcomings, as of partisan political interests, as of the competitions between mayors, as of the lack of a truly participatory debate process and with a vision drawn from the power that has fed certain disengagement. Now, this project, which initially seemed like a majority feeling and which could be attractive to everyone, did not develop as such. And this has given place, as has been said, to further magnify the possible rivalry between the people and the role that each of these must play in their territories. That since Lluçanès it is likely to be a region does not respond exclusively to the feeling of belonging to a community, to a territory or to that which we could refer to as a sentimental value. All these motivations are serious of all insufficient if there has not been... – and here I go back to saying that it is not a move towards the gallery, but it is a clear position – that all these motivations are serious of all insufficient if there has not been a practical need to be able to offer more and better services to the people of this territory. And do so, as has been said, from the proximity and knowledge of the socio-economic and idiosyncratic reality of Lluçan. The common characteristics of the thirteen municipalities that form part of the region emphasize even more the need and opportunity of self-organisation with the pool of services to make them more efficient, more effective and effective, contributing to the viability of these populations before the risk of depopulation. To be a region must be an opportunity, moreover, to manage better its own resources and the problems of the territory, not to add doubts, fears, opacity and open questions today that some people have, about, for example, the Consortium of Lluçanès, a place where someone has wanted to be substituted for the region but that at the moment can take on this function; an organ that from the CUP - Crida Constituent we understand a little democratized and that needs to know how to explain its motivation and its functioning. Now, bringing to a good term, to port, this will, this initiative, also implies giving out to sugar with which some want to start the project of the creation of the region of Lluçanès. It's true, the feeling of the people is that the situation is stagnant, it's been almost two years since the consultation, and we're at the same point, at least at the visible level. Beyond the position in favour of or against the region, very long-standing interests of popular intentions and a lot of proper to particularities and party games have come into play. All this presupposes a political and media stretch that has tired people and that distorts the project of a new region. And from our parliamentary group we do not want to be responsible for this tiredness, years in the opposite direction, we are for Lluçanès as in the region, but we think that a relativization exercise must be carried out that can lead us, at last, to debat the territorial model of the new country that we are building, which is obviously a major debate. But that can't be done from the point of departure of our commitments, from keeping the proposals, as has already been said, in a coven and letting it die or from selfish positions. We need to do this, we think, by initiating participatory debate and information processes, which has not happened since the consultation. We think that the claim of the Lluçan region with which we can identify the most is the one that was born many years ago, with a venial and popular struggle. We were interested in helping to highlight this future and to bring the process of the region back to a popular decision by untying it, as far as possible, from particular interests alien to these wills. We don't have any magic formula for how to pull this forward. We see that the creation of a region of only eight municipalities breaks down a little with the essence of the initial claim, it is true; but, for another group, we believe that now it is the fairest way to unravel the situation respecting the will of the people who voted for the consultation, and that Parliament should age because it is respecting these results, beyond the political outburst that is being observed in the territory. Donating, yes, all possible facilities because the rest of the people can add more input from a new, more well-worked participatory process or the formula that is thought to be appropriate. And this way of seeing and hearing our political position goes so as not to obstruct the parliamentary debate, to process the proposal of the law and thus agree on a definite text of the law of creation of the region of Lluçanès; a text respecting the territory, with its people; that you make a historical and present recognition of the existence of the regional reality of Lluçanès, and that you facilitate, above all, and promote the participation of the thirteen municipalities. We agree: we want to deal with the law, we want to get to work, we want to push this debate, and we want the Llucanese region to finally be a reality. I had not greeted the mayor and the mayors who are here, excuse me. Thank you for coming. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.184.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. The words "Mr. Lluís Guinó", of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí, follow. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.185.0	Thank you, President. Mayor and Mayor of Lluçanès, Mr Ferrer, Mrs Mundi, of the Department of Governance, let me, first of all, point out the following, which seems interesting to me and, moreover, is especially comforting for the Members, and is that one of the virtualities that will have the debate today here in the Parliament of Catalonia is that all parliamentary groups have been able to position themselves. And, certainly, from a perspective like this all interventions have their point of conceptual benefit, and somehow I will try to fix the position of the Group of Joints for the Yes, and, for another band, I will also make some element or comment respecting the positions of the other political groups. We are here basically..., the leaders of the parliamentary groups have discussed the configuration of Lluçanès as a region from a historical perspective, from a natural, landscape, even sociological perspective of the relationship between the municipalities, and, therefore, this question seems undisputed. What is more complicated and more difficult to set up and plan is how..., at this time and in the context in which we are, it must be pointed out that it is a context in which, from a competitive point of view, we have a law of local governments in which there was a great deal of consensus that would have to be changed, and therefore, at a certain point in time and in the previous legislature did not call the proposal and is currently pending; taking into account more than this will be one of the priority, strategic, basic laws that the own Parliament of Catalonia will have at the time of developing its future from a political point of view, but would certainly not value and take into account the context in which this proposal develops can hardly be considered to be definite. Together for the Yes it sought transversality and transversality in this case is to listen, in the first place, to the municipalities representing the citizenship of each of them; from a perspective of participation it was already done, from 13 municipalities of the region or of the pretense region 8 voted positively the proposal, 5 voted not. And one of the aspects that Juntes for the Yes was and continues to be of concern to us, certainly not just initially... in the initial proposal, only until and when the mayors appeared in the month of generation- fever, one of the questions that was of concern to us is what happened and what future they had and how they could fit all those municipalities that, in fact, their citizens in more or less measure... because, in fact, to value the quantification of the support to each of the municipalities is complex, it is difficult, and therefore somehow what we were looking for was the solution of having those municipalities that had voted that they did not. And we have worked on different alternatives and the proposal that we have set up today, and which is why we precisely do not support the whole issue, is that Parliament, in fact, needs and what it needs to do is to debate; that each parliamentary group presents its proposals, and that with the processing of the law we understand that we will end up with this cross-cutting project of historical and regional recognition that falls, and more so to give a solution and make it easy for the municipalities that they want, somehow, to join in this project. Because, in fact, we have the obligation not only the Government, but the Parliament, to make things easier. The government has to assume and listen to the proposals that come from the municipalities, and one of the last proposals that has been mostly coincidental – that it is perfectly compatible to develop it all and the processing of this law – is the pilot plan so that this region or the municipalities that make up this region can somehow develop two activities that seem transcendent to me. One, the combined, coordinated and collaborative work dynamic is one of the basic axes of which the local governments of the future must be. And, therefore, if from a piloting perspective this can begin to develop we would be absolutely in agreement and defend it, more so. And that it is in some way possible to carry out the proposals simultaneously. And this is a prec from the Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes – I suppose with the support of the rest –: that the Government Department pulls forward this proposal for a pilot project, because, in fact, this is also a majority claim of the municipalities in a meeting that was made relatively little, October 1, 2016, so that this proposal is more than incorporated into all the municipalities. It is difficult to justify today, it has been said, a region of only eight municipalities, in this proposal would be difficult, complex and difficult to manage and justify. We have defended, since Junts for the Yes, a region of thirteen municipalities. And what we have to put in the bottom of these municipalities are, precisely, all the tools to be able to pull this project forward. He said it was a complex task, and it is a task that needs flexibility in dialectics and also flexibility even in the configuration of the basic structure of this future region. Because we are also able, from Juntes per el Si, to accept self-criticism respects the functioning of the classic district councils. We defend the regions, other political parties have different approaches, which we respect and which, moreover, are legitimate, but the regional fact and the regional structure seems to us to be a good structure for defining the municipalities and, moreover, the natural and landscape areas that make up these municipalities. In fact, Catalonia is a country of great cities, but it is also a country of middle and small municipalities. And, besides, they are municipalities of local realities that have worked and that have to continue to work. Therefore, we defend, I insist, this project of region of thirteen municipalities, whenever, and with what we need to consider municipal autonomy as a basic principle of the functioning of the administrations, it is obvious... if these municipalities actually assume and somehow have or have no interest in forming part of this region, obviously this will be a difficulty that we will also have to manage. The Department of Governance, I insist, has so far had the will to listen absolutely to everyone. This has been relatively easy, and now the most complex is how we articulate it from a legal and formal point of view, this reality. Because we are certainly with a law of local governments that somehow legally delimits us as we have to set up, and therefore all the effects that can become with this proposal are conditioned, for one band, to the law of local governments that is currently in force in Catalonia and, for another band, also to the future law of local governments that will have to be approved accordingly. With regard to the transparency of the participatory processes, which has been criticized by some of the parliamentary groups, it does to me the effect that the Department of Governance, in addition, in the last few months, has been working on all that is proposed by the Joint Assembly. How much. The Gatherings. What I intended, basically, was to be an instrument of participation, of giving opinion to the assemblies and, indirectly, also to the citizenry. And these objects seem, or do the impression, from Junts to Yes, which have been achieved. This debate will allow further discussion. And the opening of the process of this law will allow all parliamentary groups, which we have very many coincidences... because, certainly, listening today to parliamentary groups could make the sense that we always highlight differences to fix our position. Jo, today, would do something else. There is a lot of coincidence with all the parliamentary groups, even with the most critical of the process of creating this region... which are coincident. And, therefore, surely what we have to do in the pose that will open up and with the appearances that will be there is to extrude what they have to match all the positions of the groups. We are defending a new regional fact, basically in which basic structure is, because we think that the implementation of the same system certainly causes dysfunctions. We defend that there may be different ways of running councils, and giving more importance to the council of mayors, and in this concrete case taking over the Consortium of Lluçanès, while the corresponding law is not configured and approved, so as to start working in the field of the pilot test. We wanted to point out, in the end, that we have the obligation from a parliamentary perspective to reject this whole question, because we consider that the debate is positive, that, moreover, it is necessary, that we have the need to get these initials to the front, above all thinking about what this supposes for the region, that someone has said that today was certainly a historic day, not just for which the Member of the CUP gave her, but that today we have a lot of motivation to be satisfied with our parliamentary task; but it is true that today is a first step. Today it's not all that's finished; we'll have to work more than we've worked on now, we'll have to gather more than we've met – that we've already met a lot – with all the mayors and representatives of the territory, and we'll have to make a law that's as close as possible to the needy of citizenship. That, moreover, it is more efficient than an economic point of view, that it is able to work in the network, that obviously, all those who are the basic needs of the municipalities can be satisfied and, moreover, are doing in better economic conditions, and that we are able to be the most efficient. And, in the area of efficiency and in the area of facilitating things for the citizenry, we have to set up the basic institutional structures so that this is possible. We believe in Lluçanès, we believe in the comarques...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.186.0	Mr. Guinó, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.187.0	...and we believe in a better – thank you, President, I'm about done, we'd say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.188.0	It should be over. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.189.0	We believe, I insist, and finally, in the comarques, in the Lluçanès, in the efficient way of working. And it is good that from a parliamentary point of view we continue to do so. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.190.0	Thank you, Mr. Guinó. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote. We shall vote jointly on the three totality items presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group and for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. As the totality items have been rejected, the Proposition of the law of creation of the Lluçanes region continues its processing by 49 votes in favour, 78 against and no abstention. [[Greetings.]] [[Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia to support human rights defenders in Colombia (continuation)]] [[401-00028/11]] I must say that there has been a mistake in reading the Declaration of the Catalan Parliament of Support and for the protection of human rights defenders in Colombia. Only in the reading, but what will be published and what is left is what has been granted and what is signed for all parliamentary groups. [[Proposal for a law reforming the Law of the State Guarantee Board (debate of totality)]] [[202-00051/11]] The next point, the set point, of the order of the day is: debate of totality on the Proposition of Law Reform Law of the Council of Statutory Guarantees. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Gruppo Parlamentari Catalunya Si que es Pot, Mr Joan Coscubiela. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, they already know that they demand them whenever they leave in a hurry and in silence so that they can continue with the Ple. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Quiet, and please. Mr. Coscubala, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.191.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. The proposal of the law that we present today Catalonia Yes, it can have two very obvious objectives: first, to react before the changes in the Rules of Parliament, which Together for the Yes and the CUP want to impose through express reform, and secondly, to strengthen the rights of parliamentary minorities and to facilitate the intervention of the Council of State Guarantees in the processing of the single reading law. It is, therefore, to prevent the express reform of the Rules, without a parallel reform of the Law of the Statutory Guarantees Council, further impairing the rights of minorities and the guarantees of parliamentary groups, in this case to accede to the Statutory Guarantees Council. I would like to point out that I believe that, in order to express the observations and legal proposals of the Board of Electors on this reform of the Rules, today we run a risk of normalizing the violation of the rights of minorities and of denying them, of denying these minorities, the proper functions of the representative function. One rule, Parliament's Rules of Procedure is the mark, the playing field, the main configuratory rule for what is called a parliamentary office, guarantees the fundamental right of Article 23 of the Constitution, which is ultimately the basic essence of democracy and also, in this respect, of the contribution of minority rights. If the reform of the Rules succeeds in the terms which are laid down, without taking into account the observations and technical and legal proposals of Parliament's electorate, and without the parallel reform of the Law of the Council of State Guarantees, it will be difficult to access the Council of State Guarantees and will enter into a land of violation of the rights of minorities. And that's what they're trying to avoid in part this law proposal. I would like to recall here that the Council of State Guarantees created the Statute of Autonomy of 2006, in the framework of a process of strengthening the self-government structures of Catalonia. As much as it is continued by the Consulting Council, its abst, the competitions, the institutional dimension..., it is much stronger, as it is from the same parliamentary debate of the preamble of the same law. For years the Guarantee Board has played a key role in the development of self-government. And the law, in its moment, of the 2009 Guarantee Board was already, in its moment, the object of a first modification. I would like to remind you that that amendment of 2010 on the 2009 text, among other things, concerning the text and the subject that brings us today, introduced a specific procedure for the decisions requested in the processing of the single reading laws, for the single reading procedure, among other things, because it was a supposition that had not been foreseen in the initial law of 2009, had been a oversight of the legislator. The 2010 reform, in this sense, has all the logic. In line with the summary nature of the single reading legislative procedures and with the fact that at those times, and even until today, these procedures when dealing with legislative proposals are only viable on the basis of a legislative proposal submitted for all groups, the 2010 reform incorporated a faster procedure, with shorter terms of access to the State Guarantee Board. Logically, from a legal point of view and from a democratic point of view. The deadline for requesting the opinion on single reading cases is two days, when in general terms it is three days. And the deadline for issuing the opinion for the Board of State Guarantees is seven days, instead of the month set in general character. This regulation, I insist, the result of the 2010 reform, was coherent and had all the logic in the framework of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure currently in force; it was a proposal for a single reading law presented for all parliamentary groups, submissive, moreover, to criteria of simplicity, object to establishing criteria..., shorter terms. But now we find ourselves in a different situation, and it is that the express reform of the Rules, presented by Juntes for the Yes and voted for the CUP, opens the possibility that the single reading can be proposed for a single group, be debated, moreover, altering in a surprising way the order of the day, and, moreover, without limitations regarding the simplicity of its content. This is a reform that has been presented on many occasions, mediatedly, justified by the argument that this will mock the legitimacy of the Spanish State against the referendum, deceiving the Spanish Government in its strategies of opposition to this referendum. The truth is that, at this hour, the first and only effect that this reform has produced, or that this reform, this strategy, can produce, is a question of the degradation of the function of Parliament, and is noticing the rights of minorities. For the time being, they intend to mock the Spanish State, which is being done is to deceive the citizenry and to lift the rights of minorities, which is one of the key factors of the democratic system. Because only from the point of view of mockery and deception can it be claimed that a law of legal transitionality or a law of summons of the referendum, which at the time is due to be presented, can be approved through a procedure of dual exceptionality: that of the one reading to a single group and by way of the alteration of the agenda of the plenary in an abrupt way and without respecting the regulatory procedures and the rights of minorities. It could be absurd, if things do not take place, in democratic terms, that, while the reform of the Statute of Autonomy requires a strengthened democracy procedure and a very large number of qualified two-thirds of the Parliament, in change, a law which is intended to create the legislative framework for the independence of Catalonia could be approved for the simple majority procedure, for a single reading procedure and, moreover, for the exceptional alternation of the agenda of the plenary. Without forgetting one important thing: this law that is announced, these laws that are announced have a clearly contained content..., with an important electoral share. And I want to remind you that for thirty years this Parliament has not been able to approve the Catalonian election law because the qualified majority of two thirds – ninety Members, Members – have never been able to do so. And now it is claimed that, through the law of transitoryity or with the law of summons of the referendum, that they have a clear electoral content, it is possible to do the same with a majority of seventy-two votes and, when the case comes, even a simple majority of sixty-night. Obviously this is not possible; but this is a reality that can happen at these times. From Catalonia Yes, we have told you many times that we share and are the first to denounce the authoritarian forms of the Spanish Government and its practices of democratic degradation. Some have done so since long ago and continuously and not interrupted, with others. We will have to do this in the later Spanish legislature on the subject of the Constitutional Court's reform law. But precisely because we denounce these authoritarian practices that degrade democracy when they are made by the Spanish State, we cannot endorse them when they are practiced by Catalan institutions. The battle against democratic degradation cannot give, and much less win, with more democratic degradation, but on the contrary. Res de positiu can be built from the devaluation of the Parliament of Catalonia. And, obviously, they do not serve informative pendulums, more advertising than informative ones, which pretend to replace the phone book of the Parliament of Catalonia. Ninety-four days to October 1. The chamber, while the Parliament, the chamber representing the city of Catalonia, ignores basic aspects of the referendum that are intended to be convened. But, in change, we do know the way in which they intend to do, which, I insist, presupposes a major democratic degradation. From this perspective, our group raises this proposal of law because in the part that corresponds to the Council of Statutory Guarantees this is not able to fully consummate. That the government and the groups that support it – it's basic – must once and for all give up exceptional procedures. It is also essential to listen to the observations and technical and legal proposals of the Parliament's Board of Lletrats because it is ensured that the reform of the Rules is not overturned by the rights of minorities. I, modestly, we contribute to this reform of the Law of the Statutory Guarantees Council. It is at this point that our group has put forward this proposal and we expect you to pull forward, because it has as an objective, I insist, to guarantee and strengthen the rights of minorities and the guarantees provided by this Council of State Guarantees. Its content is simple: it is to suggest that the two-day deadline for submitting an opinion may be three. There is no sense that a proposal of law which has been discussed for the ordinary procedure, which is also known for everyone, which has been debated, has a three-day deadline, and a proposal of law which is intended to be processed for the single reading procedure, which is known at that time, only has a two-day deadline to present itself. It doesn't make sense. It is not logical that a law proposal that can be simple from the point of view of its contents may have a resolution term of the State Guarantee Board of one month, and, in change, for example, a possible opinion around the transitional law is to be resolved within a summary term of seven days. The terms, in this case, also form part of the guarantees of democratic quality. In this sense, I insist that they are the elements that justify our proposal. And even though I think there's been a time problem, because I think it was fifteen minutes and it's not the ones that came up, to avoid procedural conflicts, I end up with a question that seems important to me. It is legitimate for everyone to object to a proposal from the law, and therefore from this point of view, to say the least. Let me say to you, from all angles, that the message to the totality presented to us by the CUP has placed us on a level of stupefaction, to hear us, because, if you have fixed it, the one that they plant is the suspension of the functioning of the Council of State Guarantees; in short, it goes to say: "How does the Council of State Guarantees apply the legality and gives us some sayings that we do not care about, the solution is to leave the Council of State Guarantees in suspense. The truth is that during this parliamentary term we have seen many curious things, especially in the debate on the approval of the assumptions, but what I personally could never imagine is that the first proposal to suspend the functioning of the Catalan institutions not coming from the Rajoy government or the People's Party, but presented by a group of this chamber, concretely the CUP. I hope, at least, I didn't come forward. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.192.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Next, for the defense of the emena to the totality with alternative text, presented for the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed, has the word of Mr Benet Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.193.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Vice-President, Members, Members, well, I will make a few points, first of all, to the intervention made by the Member proposing the initiative, because I think we should place a little which is the debate of this late. This late we are not discussing the reform of the Rules, it seems to me, but we are discussing a modification of the Law of the Board of Statutory Guarantees. That's right, I think; at least I came here to talk concretely about it. I'm saying, because a speech has now been made, a..., the right of minorities has been invoked – which, in fact, is a particular conception of the concept of the right of minorities; they are the rights of parliamentary minorities, huh? , which are, in my opinion, the only minorities to protect – but which seems to be invoked at this time to modify a law of the Statutory Guarantee Board. But, as far as I know, when this law was made in 2009, the initiative for Catalunya Verds voted in favour. Or aren't you going to vote in favour at the time? What's going on? , that minorities in the year 2009 did not exist? That the minorities in 2009 didn't have rights? What did these minorities not have to guard the year 2009? Ah! , it turns out that this need has appeared suddenly, now, at this moment, and it is the one that somehow focuses, seems, the intervention of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. Look, we didn't want to focus on this issue as a right-wing issue for parliamentary minorities – it's a question about the suspension of institutions – but we just wanted to raise a deep debate about the Statute. Because the Council of State Guarantees, if we are not mistaken, is based on the idea that we accept and buy with a very peculiar hybrid that is called the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy, and that it is neither the State that made this chamber, nor the State that later was told to the Spanish Courts, nor the State that was referred to by the people of Catalonia, but it is a text that has been prepared for the Constitutional Court. And, therefore, to me, that all the legislative initiative of this chamber was subject to a text that has not been ratified by the people of Catalonia, so, miri, jo..., sorry, eh? , from the perspective of democratic legitimacy, the guarantee of minority and majority rights, and from the perspective of what the democratic tradition of the left has been, it seems to me, as a minimum, questionable. And we're getting out of here, not because we want to suspend the Guarantee Board. What we are proposing is that, while it is not the case that the legal status of Catalonia has not been referred to by the people of Catalonia, it is the State that has been retaliated, it is the case of a reference of independence, that we are planting by the way of the yes or the way of the no, it seems that the cohesive, the democratic is precisely left in suspense, that it is not continuing to use this tap of the sovereignty of this Parliament, that it is this hybrid of the state that has not been ratified by any other than the twelve judges of the Constitutional Court. In fact – and I will say, let's say... –, what I came to make this legislature is a constituent process. In this legislature there are at least three political forces, which add most to this chamber, which are Together for the Yes, the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent i Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, which in the electoral campaign we said we would do, if we got the majority enough, a process constitute. And at the beginning of the legislature we made a statement, which is the 1/XI, where we introduced a specific point, separate, to vote separately, in which the opening and the beginning of a process are not subordinated. We already know what Catalonia voted for Yes, it is, unfortunately, at that time, and so... that since the first moment of the legislature it has not been building what, I repeat, for us is one of the main objectives of the legislature, and it is the debate and opening of a process that is destitute and constitute. In what debate is the question: what paper do the Constitutional Court and the Council of Statutory Guarantees have? That is to say, I now imagine: if I wanted to open a constituent process, what does the Council of Statutory Guarantees do? Do you help me in the process constitute or hinder the process constitute? Because I think that the answer to this question may help us to understand whether what we have to do as a chamber is to strengthen the Guarantee Board, to increase the possibilities of going there and, somehow, to shield it because it continues to tap into the sobriety of this Parliament, or, in turn, as we understand that a process is to be opened, which we do not believe is: "Look, while we have not resolved the question of dismissal-constituent, we do that this Guarantee Board, what it does is to apply a statute that has not voted any, so, stay..., does not affect this sovereignty or this settlement. I have already spoken of the 9-N Declaration, which referred to proceedings as constituting and which you did not vote for. Specifically speaking of a process constitute, citizen, participative, open, integrative and active. And you voted against it because you understood that this was part of a strategy, bla-bla-bla, and that you didn't have to vote in favour of the opening of this process. Then came the committee of the process constituted, that we wanted it to be legislative, but that you did not want it to be legislative, and because you participated, because, if not, they said that you would not participate in this constitution, we had to make it a study commission, a study commission. I do not know whether, in this will, this political compromise electoral process constitutes non-subordination, the most logical thing was the legislative commission or the study commission. In any case, she was degraded by the study committee. But then came the conclusion phase of this Constituent Procedure Study Commission, and the Catalonian Group Yes, it may not want to assume or subscribe– in fact, there were votes against at the time when they were put to the vote in this House – the conclusions of that committee, therefore, from all a logic that we had already decided not to the conclusions of that committee, that we had already decided what would come out of the process constitute, as if this process were done in the enclosed room of that Constituent Procedure Study Commission. And, in fact, the session paper, which I was reviewing today, what was the proposal to conclude that you were setting up. Miri, I'm talking about processes. Do you know what you are planting, or what you were planting at that time, on the process you constitute? They said: "Look, as it does not seem viable an agreement with the constituent power of the Spanish State or unilaterality, what we have to do is to put in place mechanisms that allow a process. I'm sure you have the conclusions. And how did this process materialize that it did not go by the path agreed or by the path of unilaterality? So, say: "A unitary bet is extended to increase mobilizations from a shared object. And what was that shared object? The deal reference. That is to say, the formula, the only valid one, which you have proposed because this Parliament opened a process is not subordinate as they defended – we defended – in the electoral campaign it was a compromise referendum, which we already know is absolutely impossible in the current situation. Go back to the world and go back to Born. So, I want to continue talking about processes, because I have come to this legislature – I and all the companies and companies of the Popular Unity Candidature, as at least, and, I understand, also, from Juntes per el Si – to ask, to work, to force, to press, to build a process. And I will refer to a manifesto for the convocation of a constituent process, a text that is very important for Arcadi Oliveres and Teresa Forcades, which I think has placed a sequence of questions in the political centrality of this country, so, a few years ago. You must remember: this text was subscribed for by many people who today hold positions in Catalonia in Comú, such as Xavier Domènech or Gerardo Pisarello. In this text, which spoke precisely of how we would work to convene a process, it is said – and when we read the text – that "a process constitutes Catalonia that allows the Catalan people to decide in a democratic and peaceful way which model of state and country is what they want, and it is concretely said: "The current economic, institutional and political model has failed. If the current economic, institutional and political order has failed, what model do we have in the State that is not ratified, that defends this Council of State Guarantees that you now want to shield and increase your role of intervention in relation to the activity of this Parliament? How can we defend at the same time the idea that the current economic, institutional and political model has failed and defended the State of Autonomy? It costs a little to hear, because to apply the objectives that this manifesto had, some fully shared, such as the expropriation of the private bank, such as the economic conversion and socialization of energy enterprises and food sovereignty, the repeal of foreign legislation, a Catalonia outside NATO, etcetera..., they are impossible to achieve with the State of autonomy at hand. Therefore, my question is: companies and companies from Catalonia in Comú, what did we defend? All this, all these options for sobriety? Or do we defend the statutory guarantee board? Because defending them together is impossible, it is antithetical, because the Council of State Guarantees is the antithesis of sovereignty, it is precisely the maintenance of the status quo, the guarantee of the maintenance of the status quo, to pull the pilot forward and who spends years undertaking. This week he made forty years of June 25, 1977 and of an assembly of parliamentarians who formed unilaterally in this room, in which they precisely called for a specific status for Catalonia, didn't they? The assembly of elected Members who had come out in those constituent elections came here unilaterally and was constituted in the parliamentary assembly to reject the proposal made at that time by the Government of Madrid and to demand the return of the Republican Generality, which was precisely the late one. I think that was an assembly of parliamentarians with people, some of them, referents for the left of this country, with Lluís Maria Xirinacs, with Dolors Calvet or with Josep Benet. And, somehow, we want to claim, forty years later, that gesture of democratic unilaterality that took place in that parliamentary assembly. Why? So, why, beyond the political project of each of them, there was an act of sovereignty; an act of sovereignty that was not subservient to the Venice commission, to the law in force, to the court or to the board of statutory guarantees. There was democratic legitimacy and there was political will and determination. That is why we need that referent, to claim that, if there is democratic legitimacy and political determination, we can go as far as we want. What's risky, this process we've committed to? Probably. No one has said that we have won anything or that we have to win anything, but we do not want to resign ourselves to being the left of a right-wing parliament. That we've made an alliance and a complex and delicate bet? That's right. Are we at risk that the PDECAT, somehow, at a certain time, will get us to sell for a slow meal, for a tax pact? It's possible. There's always gonna be this chance. But not only from this conviction, but also from the need to hear that the left is forced to build new political brands that allow us to build real alternatives to capitalism– yes, we want to claim that there is an alternative, because we do not want to resign ourselves to continuing living in this unjust system–, we are forced to build a process in which the left of this country gains hegemony and that we build a real independence, much more so even from the very construction of a state, because independence today does not only have to see with the states, but also with the logic of the markets and with the logic of international capital. Obviously, there are lefts in this country that were more comfortable in autonomy, in the debates that were produced at the time, at a time when "we were better off against Pujol. We are aware of this, but that moment has passed; the moment now is complex and requires us to make political commitments. Some, from our humility but from our political determination, we think, have laid the foundations or elements so that a process can be built up. Only a few weeks ago, for our European leftists, as Die Linke, as Antarsya, as Sinn Féin, were in Barcelona to accompany us, to explain to us the expectations that this process is to come after the referendum, of republican construction, as an open door for the conjunction of the European alternative left. This is our bet. And all this can hardly have to do with the Board of State Guarantees. We live this opposition. Defending today's statutory guarantee board is stifling the sovereignty of this country. And in this dialectic we are very clear about who we are. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.194.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Benet. In order to defend the totality presented by the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes, Mr. Jordi Orobig has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.195.0	Well, thank you very much, Madam President. Vice President, deputies and deputies... well, Mr Coscubala, whenever we have shared Faristol we have intervened in terms of compromise. I think it's the first time it's not like that, huh? In this case I come to defend a task to the totality. And I'd say we're out of love to use it so much, but I'm convinced it's not like that, huh? I believe that, at the length of time and before October 1, our parliamentary groups will have the opportunity to decide jointly which means we need to make available to the people of Catalonia so that we can take the decisions that are appropriate and better for their future. In this case we find ourselves in front of a proposal of law that presents Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and that, as it has well explained in this case its spokesman, right in a modification of the Law of the Council of Guarantees Statutes, and explicitly in three parameters, eh? One is to reduce the number of Members required to be able to request the opinion; in this case it is asked to establish the name of two parliamentary groups or two Members, by chance the same name... or in this case a name that enables your group to ask, what, circumstance that does not happen today [[Funnel veils]] – I know, I know; yes, yes, I know. Extend the deadline for communication to the Bureau of the intention to request this opinion; in this case, extend it from two to three days. And, also, extend the term with which the Guarantee Board counts to issue this opinion, from seven days to one_month. Well, first of all, I believe that there is a reference that we need to make to technical: in any case, in this case, this number of Members does not parallel the numerical parameters contained in Parliament's Rules of Procedure, and that, therefore, we establish a coefficient of 7.4_per_cent of the Members of this Parliament in order to be able to urge the issuing of an opinion no longer binds with, I insist, the rest of the quorums that are required for all proceedings. With regard to the terms for issuing an opinion, we also understand from a technical point of view that if all groups, in this case, and the Members, are to adjust, in all those procedures that are carried more diligently or more quickly, as can be the emergency procedures..., all their terms, we do not understand why in this case a parliamentary institution, as can be the Council of State Guarantees, cannot do the same and, therefore, issue its opinions in the precise terms that have been laid down. In this case, logically, from Catalonia Yes it can be a change in the rules of the game, eh? , and specifically for the Council of Guarantees Statutes. And I want to remind you that precisely you, when you set up from the Juntas Group for the Yes change of the Rules..., you called this anti-democratic group for the fact that it changed the rules of the game to mid-game. So, we understand it's not legal, huh? , accuse the others, assign the others, and do not see in this case the ball in your own eye. If this procedure was so undemocratic, it would also have to be yours, and more so when in the philosophy of this proposal of law, when a reader reads its text and its own presentation... I think that in this case the UPC spokesman has exposed it well, you started talking about the amendment of the Rules when we didn't come to talk about it; here we came to talk about the amendment of the Law of the Guarantees Council. And you've limited yourself or, let's just say it in affectionate terms, you've only come to talk about your book. And what's his book? The amendment of the Catalonian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which was put in place for the Assembly for the Assembly, removes all the rights and guarantees that were articulated in this case from the same Rules to guarantee the rights of minorities and Members of Parliament. And I have to say that that's not true, it's not true at all, on the contrary. I understand that in this case the amendment of the Rules that is being proposed for Juntes per el Si precisely what it does is to have more guarantees and more rights for the citizens. In this case, you know that the single reading procedures can only be required, only in the case of a draft law, submitted and circulated for a legislative initiative from the Government of the Generality or, in any case, for a proposed law that was endorsed or signed by all parliamentary groups represented in the chamber. From our point of view, a legislative change that makes it possible to convey a single reading at the instancy of a single group what it does is to open up the possibilities that there are initiates, that can be substantiated and that can be known. And ultimately, what we do is to avoid a technical veto, which today in the Rules was articulated in the regular phase of processing, we are different from a plenary decision. That is to say, the whole plenary, the whole plenary of Parliament, all the Members together, we will have to decide whether this legislative initiative is worth it if it is to be dealt with with with with a single reading or if it is to follow another procedure. From this point of view, I don't see which guarantees are left. What you understand that you want to take precedence is the minority veto over the majority, which is, frankly, the rule that probably..., is what we have in the current Rules. But when we do this analysis of our regular situation, I think we need to do it in a comparative right-hand box; we need to get the parliamentary right back closer. And you don't do that with the head, Mr.Rabell: if we refer to the parliamentary right more closely, to the Congress of Deputies, to the Senate, to all legislative chambers, to the autonomous assemblies of the Spanish State, this procedure is allowed as it is right now in this case of the majority group in this Parliament. Is it anti-democratic here, and is it democratic there? They have taken the lead in legislative initiative. [[remorse of the voice]] Have you, in the Congress of Deputies, taken any legislative initiative to change this situation? Probably, I don't know; you're there, huh? But what is certain is that the chamber, also mostly and therefore in a democratic way, will have to understand that its arguments were not valid. And in the same way in this case the majority of Parliament that is represented in this Parliament understands that it is not so. But it's that you, over time, have made a speech, if I may, trying... as far as Article 135 is concerned, it's to say, those legislative initiatives that can be dealt with according to the Rules by this way, as if they were minor legislative initiatives, it's to say, you're unimportant. In short, something that in colloquial terms seems to be a matter of sympathy between groups, right? «Come, a Kumbaià theme, we take it to the plenary and approve it among all and it's over. And the same wording of Article 135 isn't that right, huh? because Article 135 speaks of draft laws when the nature of the draft advises it or the simplicity of the wording allows it. So, we're talking about a disjunctive conjunction, huh? We're not talking about a copulative, are we? It's not that natural advice and simplicity allow it. No, no, they can talk about very substantial issues, because we're talking about projects that advise their natural. Therefore, the discussions, we can respect them of which natural they must have, in this case, the projects or proposals of law because they can be processed by the one way of reading, but in case the topic has to be smaller, as, I insist, many times seems, of its interventions..., it must be... I insist, and maybe it's not a good example, it probably isn't, but other parliaments, other legislative chambers have used these tools to make far-reaching changes to their legislation. And in this case at the Congress of Deputies they were allowed by this way, with night and betrayal, to change, to make a modification of the Spanish Constitution to favor the payment of the debt respect..., to the markets, respect the rights of its citizens. That's not an example to follow? Certainly not; but it will probably also not require an education..., a participation in those that must be the norms of our country, all those who want to see our right to decide, with which, I insist, presided over that legislative initiative. Therefore, this amendment of the Rules, the one you assign to you, accuses you as perverse, as anti-democratic, as alienant, is not absolutely, I insist: what it does is to equip all the parliamentary groups of the same instrument with which the Government of our country counts. Because, I insist, the government can process bills for single reading and, in this case, who decides is the plenary. So, in this case, what we're doing, I insist, is that we give this tool to all the groups that, in any case, what they're going to do is win before the plenary this support that you allow them to process. But it is clear that in your argument you have already explained to us how the plenary of independence will go about it, because you have said to us: "No, because, of course, you will do this and with this amendment of the Rules of Procedure you will do it in this way, then you will do one... Moreover, you have prepared a modification of the order of the day... Forgive me, the modification of the order of the day was already provided for in the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, is not something that you have formed part of the modification that is being processed and, therefore, I do not accept it, as much as it can be, eh? , a parliamentary chronology that can be credible. Home, what is not lawful to these positions is that you will already come here to explain how the parliamentary group that has the majority in this chamber, all these processes, will deal in this case. Because, of course, the parliamentary group in this chamber didn't want to make a change to the Rules to do all this, he knows perfectly well. Here, there is a bill presented by the government and, ultimately, here there is no modification of any type. This item goes to plenary, it is voted and it is drawn forward. Therefore, in any case, this amendment of the Rules, which has been made, beyond these specific distances, many others, of a natural, understanding, generous and responsive to the citizen's demand, such as the processing of ILPs, and in any case it is focused, I insist, to restrict or restrict the rights of citizens and, in particular, of Members. But, of course, it is here that we make a proper speech..., or for which it would seem that this legislative chamber or the majority parliamentary group or, at last, in this case the UPC, which, in this case, has also presented a threat to the totality, we are against guarantees, we are against the rights of everyone. Listen to me, no one here has suggested that we cannot count on the endorsement of the statutory guarantee board in the terms in which Parliament's Rules of Procedure are laid down. I have now made the spokesman of the Popular Unity Candidate with an argument that will seem more uncertain or not, but that it is intelligible and defendable; it has enough coherence: a statute – a statute – as we have today, which is not the result of the vote of the citizens of Catalonia, certainly to be interpreted..., or if we are interpreting the judicial interpretation of what the citizens of Catalonia voted for. So, certainly, in this case, the deputy of the CUP is right. But, in this case, our totality statement does not go in this line; we are not, in this case, to dispense with the statutory guarantee board. But it's not like we've ever decided to let it go. And of course, when it is said that this Parliament does not have guarantees, this Parliament is not democratic, forgive me, you could explain to me which other Parliament, which other legislative chamber exists in the Spanish State with a tool such as the State Guarantee Board? Not one head – not one head. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, there will be the Council of State here, autonomous councillors who, in this case, are the only consultative tasks for the respective governments, but in no case are they a tool for the services of parliamentary groups represented in a parliament. Therefore, listen to me, we deny the major; in no case does this Parliament have no guarantees; in no case the majority group in this Parliament is not for democracy and guarantees and, therefore, logically, we have to differ completely from its establishment. Because the saddest part of it is that this legislative initiative does not obey a perception of a need for a legislative change because it all works in a more advanced way. The sad thing about this legislative initiative is that it looks like a rebequeria; I'm just saying that. In view of the willingness to make a change to the Rules that benefits everyone, but as I am inclined to think that it is a tool that serves certain political interests, I propose this change not to protect the rights of anyone, to learn – if I may say so – to get to work, that I do not say that it is his will, but misused could be, to get to work on parliamentary filibusterism; so clearly. It's a tool that's not used to guarantee rights; it's a tool that's used to obstruct the vehicle's legislative initiatives in favor of the citizens of Catalonia. Because I remind you that here, presumably, we are all here to go for the interests of our citizens. Therefore, listen to me, with the argument that has also been used before, in the sense that the group to which some of you belong on your day enthusiastically approved this departure from the Rules and that at the motivating presentation of your proposal to vote today we do not see a technical argumentative legal foundation that justifies us why we should make a change to it as you are, logically, we will keep our goal to the full and, therefore, we hope that, as it is alone, it will be with the consent of other groups of this House, at last this legislative initiative does not prosper. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.196.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Orobtig. Then, to the contrary, has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.197.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, thank you, friend Orobtig, for having understood our purpose of law. Yes, it is a clear answer to the reform of the Rules, and it is raised now because you have proposed the reform of the Rules. Why? Because insofar as a new mode of processing is incorporated, which is the unique reading proposed by a group and without the conditionality of the simplicity of this proposal, we believe that it is necessary to modify the access to the Council of State Guarantees to reinforce the guarantees of the groups and of this reality that the Council is. The truth is that I was surprised, and I must say with affection, but clearly to my friend Benet Salellas that, if I read the proposal I was stupefied, listening to his concern, I was absolutely concerned. Because, if I understand correctly, the reason why the suspension is being demanded by the State Guarantee Board is because the State of Autonomy is democratically addicted. I do not know if I am aware that with this very argument someone could say that we also leave the conjunction of the Catalonian Autonomy Statute pending, or that we leave this very Parliament pending, which, in short, also derives from this very Statute. Of course, the argument that someone has invented a legitimacy that no one has given him, that declares the situation of exceptionality because of the fact that the Constitutional Court established a status approved in reference, that it was a real drama from the democratic point of view that is not resolved and that it is one of the causes that we are here, cannot justify that someone self-registers the legitimacy of saying: "And from then on exceptionality is that I will decide who are the institutions that are still in force or are not in force. The truth is that it's worrying, from that perspective. It is worrying, because no one – neither the CUP, nor us, nor anyone – has the ability, outside of the city, to decide at every moment who are the institutions that have legitimacy or not. That's just exactly where popular sovereignty comes from, which is expressed in many ways, but also through institutions. The truth is that a subject has appeared here... I think the debate is clear enough. If we have raised this issue as a reaction to the Rules, it is because we are deeply convinced that the Rules, in the words that are being raised today, pose an obvious risk of undermining the rights of parliamentary minorities. But that's not what we said. A report has just come out... I'm sorry, it's not a report, it's some observations and proposals from the Board of Lletrats that, if you'll excuse me, from a legal and political point of view, it's demolishing, in relation to this very reform of the Rules. Of course, we don't say that, the Parliament's Board of Letters says that. Of course, as has happened other times, if the one who says the board, if the one who says the cast doesn't matter, simply says that it's not binding, and then, if I've seen you, I don't remember. Ah, but this brings us to a debate that I do not deny, I accept – it does not give time now – to keep with you, Benet, on this issue – we have made on some other occasions – and it is what kind of society can be built with these parameters. It is clear that yes – it is clear that yes – that a process is legitimate. Of course we did participate in the process debate. But we cannot agree with a concept of process which literally means, apart from its conclusions: "The decisions of this assembly will be a compulsory compliment for the rest of public power, for all physical and legal persons. The decisions of the assembly shall not be subject to any control, suspension or challenge by any other power, court or tribunal. Well, I'm sorry. This he signed together for the Yes, in a Soviet attack, of the Soviets of the middle classes pre-charitable, outraged, and I don't know what. But, uh, excuse me, huh? , this is a concept of absolute and absolutist sovereignty that does not exist at all and never existed at the length of history. Even absolute monarchies had some elements of counterpower that limited their power. And that's why we can't match this layout. And that's what leads us, quite clearly, to deny this whole thing, to think that when an institution doesn't like us we leave it in suspense. They can't do things like that. Because, even if a process is triumphant, the first one would be to establish a new legality that would have to complete everyone. What can't be is that everyone thinks that legality is a menu to the card, that every day I hear which part of the card he likes or doesn't like, and that's the question. And speaking of lawsuits, it's not just legitimate. You know we've discussed this a lot, but we should be clear. A process that constitutes the whole history of humanity has only come from two ways: with a pact with the constituted power or with an insubmission before the constituted power. The pact does not seem possible and insubmission requires strength. Because, ultimately, one power is simply that there is a force superior to another and establishes another state. The state is the legitimate use of force. Now, please, I didn't say anyone was cheating on anyone. But does anyone think that this process is going to come about not from civil society but from institutions and, moreover, above all, with partisan strategies and, if not, from a law of legal transition? But here – here – can this situation be believed? So the debate is not about the process, which we agree with, but about which some understand what this is. And above all for one basic thing as long as we don't get to this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.198.0	Mr. Coscubala, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.199.0	... – I finish – while we do not get to this situation that has to come about because the political system of the year 78 is more than exhausted, we have to agree on something; and it is that while there can be no one who feels legitimate to say: « I like this institution and I do not like this one, and I do not like it. That's why we oppose your goal to totality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.200.0	Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.201.0	And I hope you don't approve...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.202.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.203.0	It was for the time before, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.204.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Then, to fix its position, has the word José María Espejo-Saavedra, of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.205.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, even if it seems the opposite and it has been said here that we are not going to talk so much about the Council of Statutory Guarantees, that we would also have to talk a lot about the Council of Statutory Guarantees, also about its depoliticisation, its functions, and so on, today we come again to talk about the Rules of Procedure. And, indeed, yes, of the Rules of Procedure. And I don't know why some are frightened, because it is that I have read the explanatory statement of the law that has presented Catalonia Yes it is Pot and speaks clearly of the Regulation. Therefore, I do not know who is now afraid of: "Huy, but were we not going to talk about the Council of Statutory Guarantees? Yes, but obviously beyond the amendment of Parliament's Rules of Procedure and the reform that Junqueras and Puigdemont, Convergence and Esquerra, want to do against the entire democratic opposition of Catalonia. We are anticipating a debate that we may also have in one of the next plenary sessions and a debate that, ultimately – rather than technical issues – goes on democracy. "This is democracy, isn't it? "This goes from democracy, which some said. Because, as I say, we are not going to talk about technical issues – deadlines, procedures. Let us talk, and this is the key debate, about democracy. Specifically – in particular – how Mr Junqueras and Mr Puigdemont, Convergence and Esquerra, want to nullify all the democratic opposition represented in Parliament, how the representatives of a social minority want to nullify the representatives of a plural social majority, with all the differences they want, deep, substantial differences, which go even on the subject of the referendum that some want, others think it is not the solution, but a social majority represented here and a social minority who wants – who wants – to trample on the rights of this social majority by changing the rules of the game. Why? Because they don't – because they don't – suit them, and by changing them by the back door, huh? , in a tremendous lack of respect for all Catalan citizens who do not agree with their thesis. Like the rules of civilized democracy, which the advanced countries recognize, they cannot do what they do with those rules, so what do they do directly? , other rules are invented – other rules are invented. Not a single international body, not a single country, except the Venezuela of Maduro, supports this strategy of unilateral rupture, eh? , with invented and hidden rules, on the other hand. And this despite the enormous amounts of money from the Catalans that Mr Romeva has also spent on promoting all this. But it is that, besides, those invented norms, in an unprecedented boast of democracy, we do not even know them at three months..., three months in view of the supposed referendum that is to be held. There are no ballot boxes, there are no rules that support it, there is no Electoral Administration, there are no officials to carry out the logistical and operational tasks, there is no census, they do not want to collaborate all the administrations involved – including the most important municipalities in Catalonia –, they do not meet any international standards, they oppose all the democratic opposition in Catalonia; in short, there is nothing, at three months seen, more than an announcement of a date and a question. I have to admit that 9-N was much better organized – 9-N was much better organized – than the supposed referendum of October 1. I think this... if something's October 1st, it'll be a 9-N, but it'll be in thin air, because there's nothing and there's three months left. And as they also have the opposition, in bloc, of Catalonia... [[Widow's remorse.]] Don't worry. As they have the opposition in bloc, all... – the one representing the social majority, not the social minority – as they have everyone against, so what is done? We nullify it – nullify it – and in this way, then, already solved theme. It is quite obvious: it is done by other political leaders from other countries who have problems with a plural opposition, but united against forms, let's say, anti-democratic, and so you copy it – you copy it. And not only do they oppose all the opposition of this Parliament, they also logically do not support the Council of State Guarantees, which tells them that the Government or even the Parliament cannot do things that are not within their competence. And what are they doing? Well, try to cancel it – try to cancel it – and it's too late. That is to say – I am grateful, as always, for the clarity with which the CUP proposes its amendments and proposals – not even the officials seem very in favour of helping them in their plans. And what are they doing? Well, either they threaten or despise them, as they do with Parliament's lawyers. In short, everything is very democratic. That goes for democracy. You, who have gone on a list all together – those of Esquerra with the party of the 3_per_cent, those of the party that most presumes of cleanliness in Catalonia on the same list and in the same government as the most corrupt party in Catalonia and without demanding anything in return – have managed that all the democratic opposition of the Parliament, I insist, with its substantial ideological differences, very profound on the same idea of the referendum, agree on one thing: that you want to tread the rights of Catalans who do not agree with their way of acting. They have agreed..., we have agreed that the adoption of laws by single reading without the possibility of debate, without the possibility of pronouncing the Guarantee Board, without deep discussion in the Chamber, by a simple parliamentary majority that does not represent the social majority, we have agreed that this is not democratic. Listen, Mr Coscubiela has also said this, but it is obvious that in order to amend the Statute of Catalonia you need ninety Members, and you with seventy-two Members, or seventy-one more, want to declare that Catalonia is not subject to international legality, that it is an independent state, etc.. They are told in the opposition, they are told by the lawyers when they have to report, by the way, on their own, because when they have to comply with the obligation to make that report you tell them that no, that they cannot do so, they vote against that report. And besides, why do they do all this, despite...? And I always recognize Mr Orobtig's dialectical efforts to defend something he himself knows he has no defence. They do it because of the government's lack of courage. If you have indeed declared..., if this from the single reading can do it – they can do it –, they can present a bill, the bill of transitoryness. But no, it has to come Junts for Yes to tell us that for us – for us – for all parliamentary groups, they propose this reform of the Rules of Procedure so that we can make proposals for law. And the whole opposition says to him: « – No, no, that I do not want..., that reform of the Rules of Procedure does not interest us. "Even so, we do it for you; truly, believe us, we do it for you. [[Greetings.]] No, no, they do so because the Government does not have the courage to sign a legal transitory bill. [[Greetings.]] That's why they do it – that's why they do it – because they don't have the courage to do it, because they know – because they know – what would happen – they know what would happen. They know that the Council of Statutory Guarantees is not going to endorse that transitional law, and that is why they want to annul the Council of Statutory Guarantees. What the lawyers of this Parliament have already said to them in a single reading, as elegantly as categorically, I would say, limits the rights of minorities and that this substantially alters the process of forming the will of this House. However, they don't care. They don't care what the Constitutional Court says – that, let's say, we already knew, goes their way from the beginning of the legislature – but it doesn't matter – and that's what's new – that's what Parliament's lawyers say, whose report they reject; what the Guarantee Council says, which they have already disheartened when it was pronounced on previous occasions; they don't care about the Venice Commission, and, in general, everything – everything – whatever contradicts their thesis, gives them absolutely the same. And, look, today the majority of Catalans represented in this Parliament are going to vote against their amendments. And let's see what paradox: however, this vote, despite this vote of those representing the social majority of Catalans, the Spanish law that most likes Esquerra, Convergence and the UPC, which is the Electoral Law, will make its amendments prosper. But, look, fortunately, there is less and less for Catalans to finally be independent of the ballot boxes, but for them to be independent of you in the ballot boxes of an autonomous election. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.206.0	Thank you, Mr. Mirror. Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.207.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, well, let's go to pams. In the first place, for what it does to the proposal itself that the Group of Catalonia raises to it Yes, it is Pot, that, if not, we run the risk of losing sight of it, eh? From the point of view of the contents which is proposed to be amended, it is a partial modification of the Law of the Statutory Guarantees Council that basically makes it possible to propose a reduction of the legitimation threshold in order to accede to the request of..., to be able to make a request for an opinion to the Statutory Guarantees Council, and, for another band, extends a couple of terms for which it makes the request of this opinion, in the case of a single reading process, and also for which it does at the end of the term of the same council in cases of single reading, which would extend seven days to one_month in the assumptions in which you are justified, I understand that because of the complexity of the legislative text, that was thus, that was the term that was held or provided by the Constitution. I have to say that – strictly analyzing the content, and even disregarding the context, which also appears in the explanatory statement – it is a proposal that we can agree with, because, let's say, we understand that in these circumstances what it is to do the exercise of situating oneself, let's say, with the veil of ignorance Rawlsia respects who could be hypothetical results in the Parliament of Catalonia, let's say, in future elections. We have to agree that the enlargement of the range of formations accessing parliamentary representation should lower the access threshold to the request for an opinion from the Council of State Guarantees to match the capacity of all the formations that have obtained parliamentary representation to seek an opinion, which we consider to be not only an important tool, but also a powerful tool in the hands of parliamentary groups. So, let's say, doing this exercise without knowing what would be the representation that my parliamentary group or others get in some future elections, we would consider this to be a good proposal in itself. For what it does to the extension of terms, even though they are not... in one case, two to three days, it is not especially significant, as far as the time it is won, it seems reasonable to match the terms, especially hearing the argument today given by Mr. Coscubila. And for what it does to the extension of the time limit for drawing up the opinion, it seems to me, let us say, a reasonable precaution; here, yes, already entering into the questions that may have to be seen with the opportunity of the proposal, because when we have had the debate on the question of the reform of the Rules, I think we have had a debate above all on the opportunity of the proposal of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. Miri, I must say, Mr Coscubala, that I am very optimistic about what you proposed when you spoke of the parallel processing of this proposal today and of the proposed reform of the Rules. It seems to me that, by making a calculation of parliamentary terms, the real options that these vagina processings in parallel are more quickly scarce. However, in any case, I recognize the opportunity to raise the political debate on which the reform of the Rules would be based in the terms in which it was put forward for the parliamentary groups that have formed the majority for this issue. Because, it was said here on behalf of Mr Orobtig, and then there was mentioned the Member of the House of Commons who preceded me in the use of the paragraph, it was argued that it is actually a reform that... in terms of right comparison, so there are examples that, respecting the single reading, would allow us to assume that this is a good reform, which actually benefits parliamentary minority groups. Well, it's pretty questionable. It would be long here and it is not the question that we are calling for, but it is quite questionable that even the whole text strictly of Article 135 really follows a text that facilitates the task for minorities, above all because the combination of majorities that are necessary to approve it makes it exclusively in the hands of the majority parliament, at every moment, allow this processing or not. But beyond that... it's that when we look at the reform of the Rules that you claim, we don't really just look at what you want to reform, but, more than that, at what is not changed. Because if you want to make a real change in favour of parliamentary minorities, surely what you want to do, for which you do the one reading, would require, so that in terms of checks and balances, make some other modification than balance the Rules. And it wasn't like that, absolutely. In fact, the sequence described by Mr Coscubiela, whether or not it is the intention of the majority of Parliament..., which is not that we have a great capacity of inventiveness, is that we carry both Juntes per el Si and the CUP have manifested on various occasions which is the strategy to introduce the law of legal transitoryity, as they say; therefore, it is not that we are particularly able to guess their intentions, it is that they have manifested them. But this sequence would be perfectly possible with the combination of the unmodified elements and those that they intend to modify from the Rules. And it's a sequence that actually goes to the detriment of opposition groups and people that we don't think you have the legitimacy to operate such a transcendental change as they intend to operate, let's say, anticipating secession, at least for what it does to the legal order, that I understand that it is, in practice, a secession through this approval of a law of legal transition. It's that, besides, we don't tell them – this too has manifested itself in this Faristol – it's also said by this one..., not to mention, only followed by technical and legal observations made to them by the press. If the interest is to improve the parliamentary processes of this chamber and protect the rights of minorities, they have it as easily as they have the views of the electorate. Find them and surely we will be missing some of the doubts about..., go on, the degradation of the democratic quality of this Parliament ; that, alert – I say, because some spokesman has also mentioned this – we are not pretending to say that this is not a democratic parliament and it will not stop being because you reform the Rules in the sense that they want to reform, which will have better democratic quality. And with what they're trying to introduce with the Rules, we'll probably find ourselves with the rights of parliamentary groups... which, we don't forget, are the rights of the people we represent, huh? , because the right of political participation is exercised also through representatives; not only, but also through representatives, these rights would be stunned. And I already know that this, let's say, can worry little about those who defend these institutions, such as the Council of Statutory Guarantees, and obviously also the CT, which are obstacles in the way of a living, joyful and fighting people who advance with determination and inexorably towards their independence. What's going on is that this operation of seeing 'this way demands to expel from the people a whole series of people that we are as much like you, huh? This is the mental operation they have to do to see these organisms as obstacles on this path. Because it's said "Status Guarantee Board" for something, and it's said so because it guarantees my rights, yours and those of the citizens who may be watching us for television and those of those who aren't. And if what is claimed is to argue that this body is no longer endowed with legitimacy, for, indeed, the drama that assumed that a referendum text for Catalonia's citizenship is seen later modified by the CT, then, effectively, this could be said to respect all statutory bodies, including the Parliament, the Government, all the institutions of the Parliament. It's something worth putting up with. I've only got two minutes to do it. What did the Constitutional Court change from the State Guarantee Board? Only the fact that their dictates could not be binding. I would say that you would probably be grateful, because, if not, some of the questions that you have been dealing with, so it would no longer be possible for you to be effective. And what the CUP is telling us is that, in the background, they don't have much to do with the decisions of the Board of State Guarantees not being binding, it's that they don't want to feel it; go, or read it, huh? They do not want this either, because, indeed, an opinion of the Council of State Guarantees is so impeded that you want to do as you have been the expected opinions contrary to your theories of those who have made a more recent case. So they don't even want to feel it. If anyone here wants to bite someone it is the UPC that wants to bite the Council of State Guarantees, which is the organ that has to age because the government, in this case, or the majority of parliament, does not lift the rights of parliamentary groups and citizens to whom they represent. It's quite remarkable, of course. And, moreover, there is also an element to be noted in the argument that this is intended to defend, which is that – and it must be appreciated, at least, that it is not supported – it is argued, on the Rules, for example, that the moment is exceptional and justifies it, and on its intention to mortify the Council of State Guarantees, they ponder the question depending on whether the Council of State Guarantees helps or hinders the achievement of its objectives, in a drift that we consider expertly Schmittian, and we are more aware of the Kelsenian normism, which I believe has allowed the civilised discussion of public subjects during the two centuries in the countries that have experienced parliamentary democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.208.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. The words of Ms. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.209.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members..., well, despite the air conditioning that has us today with almost a polar cold in the chamber, and that all the parliamentary groups have intervened, and that almost everything is said, I believe that highlighting the points and common places that we have found all the opposition groups regarding the two amendments that they have tabled, both Junts pel Yes and the CUP, I think it is sufficiently alarming. We, of course, agree that this proposal pulls forward, even though we believe it does... so, man, what do you want me to say to you, gentlemen of Catalonia? , we consider it a bit arid, squeaky and reactive. And I'm gonna explain why. We consider it arid and skewed because there are so many elements missing. I know that it is almost..., not in an emergency, because this vote may not go ahead, but we understand that there are many elements missing; we understand that it is not being deepened in a reform of the functioning of the Guarantee Board. It must be borne in mind that the last reform is not from many years ago, but many operational issues can be improved in it. And we understand that it's reactive – and it's okay with us, huh? I would like to say that it does not seem wrong to us – because it reacts to the risk of the adoption of a regulation that will be born addicted and clearly violating and twisting the regulation to such extremes..., where in the end what will be done is to violate absolutely fundamental rights of all Members who are part of the opposition to the Government in this Parliament. This, in terms of democracy, should alert us, even though this Government is little or nothing ashamed of it. In spite of that, we believe that it is necessary, that yes, that it is necessary to improve, even if by reaction. And we think it would be good if we had broadened according to which issues; for example, in the case of the extension of time limits, right? , which is contained in this proposal for reform, time limits for Members or parliamentary groups to come to the Bureau who consider that a report from that Guarantee Board is required. Well, it seems to us very good that this exceptionality of extension of terms and time limits, especially when misuse is made, is what this Government does permanently with that roll of urgency processing of certain laws; urgency which, of course, is not justified on many occasions and which, then, when it comes into submission of law, because it turns out that once even dictated..., the opinion and even voted the amendments of those proposals, of those draft laws..., then, then, it turns out that they have it to arrive at the plenary in a freezer; that is, that urgency is then paralysed at the time of bringing the proposals to the plenary. That enlargement therefore seems to us very correct; indeed, it seems to us absolutely right that you are very generous, you are a very generous parliamentary group. And I say this because you have set, let's say, the minimum limit to access to request those reports from the Council of State Guarantees in ten Members, which says a lot about you, right? , because you have one more, and you wanted to extend the possibility to these gentlemen of the UPC, to these gentlemen who present an amendment like the one that they bring us here ; an amendment where precisely what they say..., you have not convinced them to be able to understand that strengthening the Council of Guarantees Statutàries is strengthening the democratic quality that we have in Catalonia, these gentlemen what they propose is an amendment to the whole where, in fact, that of not requesting reports, that – I say, eh? I'm saying it's a little metaphorical, isn't it? –, that of not requesting reports is a de facto repeal of the Board of Guarantees Statutes. And I understand that, you, this of the laws, the Constitution, in short, the Statue, do not go with you, be it the 79th or the last reform, we understand it, but it is that in the end you always end up putting black on white what kind of democracy you believe in, that where rights are suspended for you to fulfill your dreams, right? And, therefore, this generosity that the proposing group has had, therefore, has been clearly rejected by that group which had ten Members who precisely intend to do so is quite the opposite: to put democracy on hold to see if that is how they live up to their dreams, is it not? We would also have hoped, I believe, that this reform would have raised even the composition of the council itself, because there are nine members, and the council, in theory and according to Statut, does not depend on the Government. And, therefore, why will the Government have the privilege of appointing three members of that Board of State Guarantees? I think it would be good if, if it is not through the approval of this proposal – which we already know is not going to be so – then in the future we could talk and even propose this reinforcement to the independence of the Council of Guarantees Statutàries, which we believe can be even good, right? In the end, it is very likely that this proposal will not come forward; what happens, that this will not prevent us from being blushed at certain times by the cynicism of Junts for Yes. And it is that the representative of Junts pel Yes, explaining the content of his amendment, in this Faristol, because, finally, he has made use of cynicism but in a very ostentatious way. Among other things, because he criticized the constitutional reform of 135– is it true, Mr Orobtig? – Come on, with a spectacular momentum, isn't it? , which is that reform of the ZP government, where, with the agreement of the People's Party, what is limited is the capacity to spend, that is, budgetary stability. And you say: "Well, of course, this reform was made with lightness and nightliness. Hey, what did you guys do? What did you do with that vote? Because I have to remind you that you didn't object. What did you do? The same thing UPyD did, the same thing the PNV did; they did not vote, they did not even leave the Chamber, as other parliamentary groups did. Why? Because I believe that you basically shared the meaning of that reform; that is, you cannot spend more than what you enter. And that's exactly what happened. So that's cynicism, anyway, make them look at it. By the way, that reform, do you know where it went before it was voted in the Congress of Deputies? For the Council of State ; went on to a report of the Council of State, which gave it the right to the constitutional viability of such reform. Look, in the end – it is true that several opposition groups have told you, but we are going to tell you too – you are doing what you do is instrumentalizing the regulation to pass laws of legal transition, for illegal and anti-democratic purposes, and, yes, you are giving lessons of democratic quality; it is more: of moral and democratic legitimacy. You have a law in a box hidden from all opposition groups, that we only know those contents that leak into certain media, and whose edges and details point out that you, in the end, have laws to commit absolutely illegal acts and with edges that show that what you want is almost a suspension of the regime of freedoms and rights that we all have in Catalonia since the arrival of democracy. And that's -- that's a boreal aurora, I have to tell you that. Look, in the end, I'd like to make a point. As the proposal may not come forward, almost certainly, in the end the fact that these amendments prosper... – the return amendment, i.e. that the Council of State Guarantees cannot be improved, because I hope that the proposal and the amendment of the UPC will not be approved –, in the end what is shown is that you strengthen the rights, the institutions of self-government, in short, all that remains on wet paper. And if that – and if that – is not a loss of democratic quality, let the syndic of heaviness come here and see him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.210.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. The debate is over, we're calling for a vote. Mr. Orobtig, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.211.0	For allusions and contradictions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.212.0	Thirty seconds. Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.213.0	All right. First – I have to split up enough, huh? [[relays]] – I can speak on behalf of the whole parliamentary group when I say that I have no doubt that the President, the Vice-President and the Government in full of the Generality will do everything possible and, in the end, will achieve all that responsibility for the rejection of Catalonia's citizenship. Therefore, what I have for the Government of the Generality I do not admit. As far as Mrs. Aguirre is concerned, or I explain very badly... [[Widow's remorse.]] Oh, I'm sorry, Garcia. [[Rialles.]] Or I'll explain very badly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.214.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.215.0	...or you don't listen to me. I have not spoken in any case about the reform of the Spanish Constitution in the terms you have done. But, in short, you tell me that you support that reform an opinion of the Council of State..., it is the same opinions that serve because Mr Rajoy and all of them do not come to appear and give their face to the Commission of Inquiry into Operation Catalonia. And, therefore, this opinion, like all the others that may be issued, as at least for this Member, does not have any credibility. And, finally, again, Mr. Mirror, you say we don't respect the Status Guarantee Board. I believe that what I do not do is ask that I issue an opinion and when it says that the legislative initiative is fully in line with the Statute, it also makes an appeal for unconstitutionality. We've never done this before. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.216.0	Mr. Mirror, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.217.0	For Mr. Orobig's allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.218.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.219.0	Okay. I will try not to be as extensive as Mr Orobig, who has referred to me twice. But, in any case, if you do not allow me the Government's position, because it says that it is not going to do so, because nothing happens: that they sign the Transitional Bill and save us all this debate on the Rules, because the reform of the Rules is not necessary if the Government signs the Transitional Bill. And I say again that, if it does not, it is because of a clear lack of political courage. Thank you very much. [[Greetings. Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.220.0	In accordance with Rule 114.5 of the Rules of Procedure, first of all, we shall vote on the motion for a totality which proposes the return of the proposal of the law. Secondly, we would vote for the whole question with alternative text, if the whole question was rejected. Okay? [[Pause.]] So now we're going to vote for the message presented for Junts per el Si. The vote begins. The total vote was adopted by 65 votes to 57, with no abstentions. Therefore, this initiative is rejected. As I said before, we are no longer voting on the second sentence with alternative text. [[He asked the government about the control of plagues against the conreus]] [[300-00189/11]] The next item on the agenda is the question to the Government on the control of plagues against the conreus, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, be quiet. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Xandri, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.221.0	Thank you, Counselor. Oh, thank you, President. [[Rialles.]] Counselor, well, thank you too for being here. [[Rialles.]] Well, today the inquiry, counsel, about an invasive species that we have in the Lands of the Ebre or, better said, about the mismanagement to control the cargoman poma, and it is that 2010, for the first time, therefore, was found in the camps of the Village. Well, one year earlier, it was already moving through canals and weeds. And I say it's a good start that the management of the government from abroad has been painful, among other things, because, from then on, I don't know how many directors general to this council. We were reminded yesterday of the representatives of the Federation of Mollusc Producers of the Ebre Delta: eight directors-general in two years. And precisely they attribute the mismanagement at the time to addressing this problem to the political instability of this government, where advisors, directors general, members of the department like that, as if it didn't affect the sector. And today we are talking about the cargo ship, but, counsel, I can assure you, and you know it, that the agricultural sector, rowing and fishing is located every time that there has been a change of leadership and, above all, they do not know the duration of the policies that apply at every moment depending on the return councillor and the team, so what you have next, right? In short, this counseling seems to be the home of the embolisms, one acts on the march, improvising continuously. And an example..., a clear example of this misconception is how this epidemic of the postman is being dealt with and is being reaffirmed with the appearance in committee of Director General Teresa Masjuan last month to talk about the subject that we are dealing with today and that sincerely left us more worried than we were. We are aware that we are ahead of an invasive species that is very complicated to treat, we are aware of; that it is a species that is only found in South America, in some areas of Asia and in the European Union only in the Lands of the Ebre. That is to say, the Lands of the Ebro are the only place in Europe where we have this misfortune to suffer it. From what has been detected its impact in the camps until today there have been various orders and resolutions that have been approved with the objective of taking it forward. And I want to recall in particular the first order published to the BOE in July 2011, and provisional protective measures were in place and it was determined that the autonomous communities would have to take the necessary measures to eradicate the plague. Therefore, if anyone still has doubts as to who has the competence, who has no face, the powers of eradication and control are of the Government of Catalonia. Another thing is the copies and the posts that are found in the river, and that here the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation is the one that has to realize, therefore, the appropriate tasks to avoid its expansion. And, in this sense, I can tell you that last November the CHE concluded a new prospecting campaign in Xerta and Amposta, they took a preventive measure to reduce the risk of introduction into the public hydraulic domain. Periodical prospections that led to the completion of the 2013 finals. In total, CHE will remove 6,863 adult copies and 8,509 posts. In addition, since the confederation, a new information folder on invasive species has been installed with two information panels at the re-closing of the Assut de Xerta and an information folder on the new shipowner of Tortosa. It is clear that some of the state government will have to step up control measures, and we will ask that. But here, in this Parliament, we are about to hold this government accountable. Some responsibilities, she will advise, that you have delegated to the farmers, to the pages and regents of the Delta. And, in this sense, you created, through the resolution of 2015, that technical commission of the cargo ship, formed by farmers, rulers, trade unions and other affected entities. In 2015 the government threw out the tablecloth and passed its competitions to the producers, the governing communities, the entrepreneur, etc. And, I'm telling you frankly, the feeling the Delta people have is that the government can't get out. In the first phase the department was inoperative, and later, after seeing the magnitude of the problem, it acted uncoordinatedly at the time of seeking solutions. And this problem requires you to be very clear about what you want to do, how you want to do it, and what obligations it implies to who is affected. And we go to objective data, which the same Director General presented to us on the day of the commission: at the end of 2015 they had 3,000 infested hectares and they began to find posts on the right bank of the Delta, when until then the postman had only been present on the left side. Three-thousand-hectares that doubled in 2016 with fields and channels. We have a very serious problem, counsel, which is carrying a very rich area from the environmental point of view, but it also stands out for its tourism and its local economy. Let's talk about the 2017 Action Plan. And, as the director general said, it's a plan that's working to face the guany hill. In this place what is foreseen is, for one band, content in the left hemisphere, avoiding the propagation of the right hemisphere and other areas of Spain. I, for another gang, eradicate the plague in the right hemisphere. In front of this plan, will you, counsel, already lose the left margin of the Delta? Because, of course, they're talking about containment, and it seems to me a barbarity that I'm not talking about eradicating, that I'm already missing this left margin of the Delta. You cannot abdicate your responsibility. And its obligation is to put all media in a coordinated way to eradicate the plague, both on one side and on the other. I repeat, you can't leave the red pages out of this activity. The band of this plan of action, which is nothing more than a declaration of good intentions and which, under our point of view, is short, there is a new resolution, of May 5, that introduces the fact that it is mandatory to clean the machinery before passing from one side to the other of the Delta or exiting the demarcated areas. It seems correct to me, but who costs the cost of cleaning up this machine? Because, look, counselor, I will tell you something that will not please you, but that you have a lot of commitment – a lot of commitment – to the sector, and it is that, today – and I know that there was a compromise on the part of the government to do it – yet the corresponding subsidies to the soaps of 2015 and 2016 have not been paid, that 25_percent of the total that the pages are spent on this product, which, if used as a lime, is shown to be effective. Counselor, when do you plan to pay for the pages that were attached to these aids? And I ask you this question when the resolution for which the bases for the aid of these plant protection products for the October colitis were adopted was published in the DGC yesterday. But they still haven't paid for the 2015 and 2016 help! Please, counselor, be strict and pay for what is god. Your funding from Europe and the ministry, concretely – and correcting'ms if I'm wrong, huh? – from the RDP to EUR 5_million by 2020; it is said that there are EUR 1_million annually since 2016, and EUR 400,000_ of the Ministry of Agriculture. How are these 1,4_million euros managed and who exactly manages them? And, in the band of these saponin aids, are in any other way compensating for the main victims, farmers and regents, before the control measures that are being applied? Let's talk about another measure that's going to slow down the cargo ship: the sectorization. Counselor, can we appreciate what the results of the 2016 campaign were when it was hard to finish for the first time? And what's happening right now? Did it work? You're giving the fruits you've been hoping for? Another of the measures that are due to be completed are seawater treatments. In concrete terms, Article 7 of the later resolution states that the communities of regents who wish to apply this treatment must attach a plan of action to the application, specifying the hydraulic infrastructure and the areas to be treated. In addition, they should include a technical report specifying the conditions under which treatments and possible negative effects will be carried out, as well as the possible increase in salinity to adjacent plots. An example more than that in the end who has to move 'if he has to be responsible for a situation that has survived and until now unstoppable it is the ones who suffer this invasion. Will you advise, do this treatment, what do you suppose for the regents from the economic point of view? Okay. In the turn of the day, I'll take advantage of it to focus a little more on this type of treatment, won't I? , which is true that it has generated controversy, but as I say, I will make it a series of questions again. And, by the way, I wanted to do it... what is the sector's appreciation for this resolution, so what happened a few days ago? In short – I finish – we are faced with a problem of difficult solution, we are very conscious, basically because it was neglected in its initial phase. Seven years after seeing this growing, the department is responsible for acting seriously and forcefully in agreement with the sector; but, above all, in a firm and coordinated manner, not on the march. And above all, they pay what they give and compensate the injured. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.222.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Serret, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.223.0	Thank you, President. Congresswoman Xandri, very late. Always, huh? , to be able to carry in this plenary, in this Parliament themes of the Department of Agriculture, of the primary sector of our country, and, in concrete terms, a rather interesting and very broad theme, which is what you raised when you announced the inquiry, on plant health, on health of the conreus. At your exhibition you have focused specifically on the poma cargo, but I would like to make a general approach, because you will not understand how you are acting with the poma cargo, surely, if you don't really know how this country's plant health system works. First of all, it is very important that plant health is basic – it is basic – for the food security of the country. It's basic to deal with the plagues and ills of the conreus, because they have a direct affect, and you say it very clearly, the affect you have on the pages, but it's not just about the pages. It affects yields, yields because they negatively affect production in quantity and quality, plagues and diseases; it affects the confidence of markets and consumers; it does not please anyone to have a plague in their production, because this creates mistrust of supplies and, therefore, in customers, and this can cause them to lose orders. And that also creates mistrust in the consumer so that he can become suspicious of the health of that product. And obviously it also affects the environment, the environment and the same evolution of the natural resources needed to bring agricultural production forward. In the later years, more than that, in the context in which we are living there are two fundamental elements that are increasing our risk, the risk of contamination by plagues and diseases, huh? : the spread through globalization in all the movements that it supposes of goods, of plant material, even of people, and also the climate change, the way how climate change is affecting the propagation, it is for new species, it is for the weakness that generates in the ecosystems and, therefore, it facilitates the spread of diseases. Therefore, we have more risks. That means..., and obviously the effects of poor plant health are fundamental. So, what's the point? It must always be better control, prevention and eradication; yes, eradication of plagues and diseases, so old, is to say, with some with whom our sector is living and working there and facing them to come some day to eradicate them, but while living there, to be able to maintain the negative effects of these plagues, and those nine plagues, the case of the cargoman poma, for example. And obviously the goal is also to always go to more efficient and sustainable systems, efficient because we reduce the resources we spend on them to the maximum, and that's it, isn't it? , with positive repercussions, and above all sustainable to insist also on the effects on the environment, because in the past there were, therefore, excesses in some uses. In this sense, the department annually allocates both economic and human resources to which is the plant health strategy. Overall, by 2017, there were assumptions of more than EUR 2 million for the combination of plant health measures. And here I also want to focus on human resources of the department's own plant health services, not just central services but also in the territory, regional offices and territorial services, and above all the functions of the Rural Agents' Centre. Important, therefore, these strategies, to drive what is prevention, vigilance, control and eradication of pests and weeds. And here too, we insist: in Catalonia we are pioneers and we are champions in what is prevention and innovation, and we have technicians and experts among the system, among the Department of Agriculture, you will function that you have been working there for years, doing a thorough follow-up of all this system and all this strategy of prevention, and that you are not only good here at the level of Catalonia but also actively participating in the commissions that there is at the European level as experts of reference. Therefore, here we have a good tip, to the same Department of Agriculture. And, in addition, we are also developing excellence in which is the Integrated Pest Management Plan, applying alternative methods to chemistry, improving the reduction of pesticide residues and increasing the sustainable use of pesticides. Therefore, we are moving forward because the most important thing, which we also have clearly, apart from all this strategy, the most important thing is to have a plant defense system at the most involved, with all the involvement and coordination with the different agents of this system. And in this system there is the Administration – Department of Agriculture and other administrations–, producers, marketers and breeders– especially when we talk about plant materials–, and above all a phonetic tip, which is the search system, all search agents. So here in Catalonia we can be proud that we have a hundred _dividute ADVs, plant defense associations, producer organizations, but with the participation of technicians and specialists; we have the IRTA as a reference with experimental stations, like Mas Badia; we have universities; we have professionals who have completed the register of plant protection applicators – more than 64,000 –; we have 1,500 assessors of integrated pest management, and, above all, we have these technical committees which are involved in all these agents of the system, who are the ones who have to follow and all the actions, and we have for the cargoman, but also for the bacterial fire, of years ago, for the Xylella, for the sake of the sharka, for the sake of the whole fruit industry. Main lines of work that we are pushing to the department in this system participated for all agents and with this goal of improving all that is control and prevention: we have many methods respectful of the environment and health, with all the support and aid to ADVs, more than 1.800.000_euros per year; alternative techniques; programs like Fruit. Net the Horta. net; mechanisms of control of information, surveillance and eradication involving more official prospections for control of pests; involve more diagnostic and analytical through the Agricultural and Plant Health Laboratories; involve stations of warnings that give more than four hundred annual warnings to all agricultural professionals to make a correct follow-up of the pests and actions they must undertake; controls of material suppliers; controls of plant protection products through the Hygiene Platform and used with inspections; also inspections with vigilance of the marketing of all plant materials; as I said before, what is the dispatch of applicators' books, associators... Therefore, we have a system that is solid, that is efficient, that is of reference, that has been working for years to give robust to a necessary element that is the plant health system. In the concrete case of the cargoman, you said, it is a plague of the most recent we have and of the most aggressive. 2009 was introduced and the evolution that has been exponential since 2009 until now. And what's worse is that it's a plague that's in other countries of the world and there's no system, no clear strategy, is there? , and that it is effective and effective to eradicate it. Therefore, what is certain is history – and so it has asked –: here we went a little to trial and error. And it's true. And it was this story, but because the same plague involves it. From here, from the first moment it generated the maximum alert. We were all unaware, when this plague came, that we didn't know how it could evolve, and, in fact, the data were quite alarming, because 2010, which was the year when the first rule came out, as you say, which was declared of public use, there were a few more than five hundred_hectares; 2015 was already three_thousand_hectares, three_thousand, and it hasn't stopped growing, it's growing. From here, it is obvious that work must be done, but here I also want to insist on it: the Catalan plant health system is based on the participation of all agents, because it is the only way that proper actions can actually be made and generating these necessary positive synergies between the expert of all folds, of the Administration, the technicians, of the same professionals of the different fields and of the world of search. And, therefore, we have a technical committee that is working, you yourself have said it, and you are participating for the Administration – Department of Agriculture, Territories and Sustainability, the Rural Agents Cos, Catalan Forest, the Natural Park of the Ebro Delta, because it is an ecosystem that is all affected by this plague, the IRTA – but also for the sector, and the sector there is the Union of Pages, JARC, ASAJA, IACSI, Provedella, the ADV of the Ebro Delta, the streams of the Ebro Delta, the Cambra Arrossera d'Amposta, the communities of regents – the two, the Agricultural Syndicate of the Ebro Delta and the Treasury Channel – perpetuating the Secretariat. So it's all these agents, all these experts who, as you said, have been looking at how to deal with the plague for years. Therefore, it is a participatory strategy and it is a strategy that we have to assume among all of us. Are resources allocated? Yes, resources are allocated, and, I said earlier, economic and human resources. Of economics there is planning through the PDR, you know. We're going to approve a half a million euros annually. 57_percent of this million euros is provided by the Department of Agriculture; the other 43 is for European foundations. There are a few European Solidarity Fund funds pending, and there is a co-financing aid from the ministry that is also pending to collect, which will have to contribute some EUR 78,000. The department is the administration that brings it more, longer. And what's more important, and you've announced a little: the river, what we do with the river. And, yes, the CHE is prospecting, but what's important here is how we act to stop the spread of the plague to the river, not just prospecting, but acting. And here we're still waiting for the state to tell us who has the skills to do what, and that's a limit. And then, in the reply, I will give you a little more of the comments you have made on the concrete measures.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.224.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mrs. Xandri.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.225.0	Thank you, President. You'll advise, well, to aggravate this master class that you've made us on vegetable sanitation. Also thank, therefore, the good work, the good job that the professionals, the technicians, the experts are doing, which at the moment I have put in doubt. But if it seems to you, then I return to the question that concerns us, and that you think you have spent a lot of time and a few questions, so you have answered me. Well, we are aware that this is an issue that concerns an important part of the population, such as the veins of the Lands of the Ebre. He was treated on various occasions. There have been a number of motions, motions for resolutions; they have been dealt with in the agricultural monograms... precisely yesterday – yesterday – to the Committee on Agriculture we voted for an PR on one of the points precisely dealing with this, but unfortunately it was not able to prosper, so together for the Yes and the UPC voted against it. I believe that the parliamentary opposition groups are convinced that the infestations of the postman are and will be a scourge to the territory. I don't know if the government thinks the same, when we see that some of the groups that support it, therefore, reject or attempt to equalize proposals that are aimed at improving this assumption. And, well, I'd like to play a pair or three of fears that I've been pinned down. In the first place, he will advise, I want to raise some questions related to the impact of saltwater on infrastructure, because, as you know, it is a question that generates controversy. And in this sense, I want to ask you a series of questions, don't I? Did he finish or know if he finished some kind of study to minimize the effects of salt on Delta infrastructure and channel trams where it was used? In case of damage to the reg channel, what part of the repair would be taken over by the government and what part for the regants? Has any type of measure been adopted to protect the ant channels from corrosion caused by seawater? And if it didn't happen, do you plan to do something from then on? Since 2013 is there a series of collaboration agreements signed between the Generality and the Prodelta? Will you advise me, would you tell me what these agreements say in relation to the use of seawater on infrastructure? It must also be said that in front of those who question salt water as a measure of protection we find those who see it as a good solution, before the use of plant protection that can end up with the collection of marine species. Therefore, there are various visions of respect; surely they all have their share of reason. What can be harmed is that, in the face of a problem like this, attached to the government's lack of leadership, each one, therefore, applies the reception that best appeared to it, greatly damaging the environment and biodiversity. That's why it's important that from the councilhouse it's a few steps and it's forced to complete them, steps that must be the result of well-developed studies and that explain clearly why they bring benefits or harm. Another question, counsel: information and dissemination of land. We understand that this is one of the department's objectives. To the banner band that poses the CHE, what actions are due to term so that as many Jews as tourists are aware of the plague and the risks it carries? And finally, therefore, I would like to put in place a fiscal measure that is due to the term of the Government of the State, and I think it is important to highlight, and it is the downside of the IRPF that has taken place, that is being done, to the farmers of the Ampolla, the Village, Camarles and Deltebre, with eleven_ thousand hectares of camps where the land is cultivated, so as to deal in a certain way with the damage caused by this predator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.226.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Also by the turn of the line, has now the word Ms. Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.227.0	Thank you, President and members of the Bureau. Congresswoman, thank you. I welcome the news that the ministry is bringing it in and redoubling the modules to the IRPF. In fact, they do it with various plagues and when there are temporal effects. So it's a good measure. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, What I'm going to start is giving you a few questions he said in his first intervention and now in the second. I have already told the principle: what is important is to give robustly to the system, to give a continuity and a logic to the struggle of this plague as is done in the others. And here what we've been trying to do since we took over the council in 2016 is incorporate novelties into the way we face this plague. On one side, we made it clear that better coordination was needed. And the need to improve coordination where it was most lacking, which was in the territory. From here, a technical coordinator was appointed to the territory, who has been helping to improve the dialogues and synergies and the information activities that are also developing in the territory, and the necessary negotiations between all actors. Another of the elements that we established was that, with the help of the RDP, the one that is given lines of help, had to decide and agree in the technical committee how, right? What are they destined for? Therefore, the measures to which the aid is intended are approved by the Technical Committee, which I have already said before who forms part. And then, it is through the ad hoc group, that there are a series of entities, that each entity, depending on the measures assigned, reality..., and, therefore, the money corresponding to those measures assigned, and, obviously, they have justified that the action has actually taken place, as prescribed by European law. From here, too, and before entering the issue of the treatment of saltwater..., some of the ideas he launched was the fact that the left hemisphere had given up on the eradication because the priority for this 2017 plan clearly stipulated that for the right hemisphere we went to the eradication and left hemisphere to the containment. I said at first, there are some we have to live with while we are not able to ensure eradication, and there are others we can go to eradicate. Why is the right half-way uprooted? So, because the plague is not yet in place, and therefore we are in full condition of being able to act, sufficiently, now, if we are sufficiently intense, as to eradicate it from the right hemisphere, and in the left hemisphere we have such a high level of expansion of the moment that what we need to do is to maximize the actions that allow us to contain and then look at underage and eradicate. But the object of this year is to contain it for, in the following years, to eradicate it; above all, that it does not disappear any more, but prioritizing where we can eradicate it. For what he does to the sapons, you said, there was a series of misinterpretations between the different actors about how to proceed with the payment of the sapons, and from here, a fixed time, we approved the bases, and then a few days later the call will come out, and the help of the last year's call will be paid, which is due, and the next one will come out. Therefore, we will pay the 25_per_cent that correspond to the pages for these aids. For what he does on the subject of seawater, the first thing we did, too, one of the first things we did, in this legislature, was to do a work group; a work group that you explained very well what was going on with the treatment of saltwater, which we tried to analyze for and against. What he does about the infrastructure that he gives me, some of the conclusions, and briefly – and this we can develop more – is that the infrastructure that was well maintained did not have much corrosion effects; in change, infrastructure, right? More damaged, with more pores, but they suffer more from the effect of salt water. What is clear to us is that it has to be assessed very well where and how this treatment is done for the effects it also has on salinization. And here what's betting every time more, and the same sector is betting, is for the dry-seed strategy. And here, too, they're driving you to study together with the same IRTA to improve all the most suitable varieties, to improve all the handling system, because the fact that it works proves that if in 2016 we had more experimentally about 40_hectares on the right margin and about 90_hectares on the left margin that make it sown in dry, in 2017 it is expected that they could reach 1,500 or 2,000_hectares of sown in dry. Therefore, it is a system that is working to control the spread of the plague, and we want to bet, from the department, accompanying, yes, what the sector needs to improve the ability not to lose more returns than it does, and find ways to make up for losses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-28-3801.228.0	Thank you, Counselor. We're suspending the session. We'll pick her up tomorrow morning at nine, with the number 10 point on the order of the day. [[Greetings.]]
