ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.1.0	It's part of the session. [[Procedure relating to the General Accounts for 2013]] [[257-00001/11]] Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. Before we begin, I would like to greet Mr. Jaume Amat and Reyero, the Chief Syndicate, and all the members of the Union of Accounts who are accompanying us today. The new item on the agenda is: debate and vote on the opinion of the Commission and the Union of Auditors on the procedure relating to the General Account of the General Court corresponding to the year 2013. In accordance with Article 182.5 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jaume Amat, the Chief Syndicate of the Union of Accounts, begins the presentation. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.2.0	Honourable President, Honourable Counsellor, Members of Parliament, Members and Members of the Ple of the Union of Accounts, appear before this Ple of Parliament to present the Report of the Union of Accounts of Catalonia on the General Account of 2013, in accordance with Rule 163.5 of the Rules of this Chamber. This report was approved by the plenum of the union on October 6, 2015, acting as putting this syndicate speaking to it, and this report officially entered this Parliament on November 24, 2015. At this time, the plethora of the union has already approved the report of the general account of 2014 that has been sent to Parliament and that will officially enter tomorrow precisely, the 10th of February. The union is also filling in and ending up with its approval – it is not yet approved – the report corresponding to the 2015 general account. It is to say that we have three exercises at stake: 2013, that we present it now; 2014, that it is already approved and entered, and that of the exercise of 2015, that is the last they have retook us, that it will be closed in a few months. The purpose of this report is to verify the adequacy of the economic information and to finance all accounts that are submitted to the report – and the accounts are attached to the report – and thus to facilitate the approval of the general account by this department and to close the presupposition cycle, which normally begins with the approval of the presumption, in this case, because 13 was an extended presumption, it was not with approval but, in fact, would be with the decree of extension with which it was approved. In the introduction of the report, the union continues to express some observations and limitations on the process of preparing the general account and the scope of entities and institutions it includes. The legislation in force at this time continues without providing for the preparation and presentation by the general intervention of the general account as a consolidated joint of the entire Catalan public sector, provided that, as explained by the introduction of the account, the account is divided into two parts, a part which is the account of which is the Administration and the managing entities and the autonomous entities, which present and retain the general intervention, and a part which is the other entities of the non-administered body, which are to be joined by the part of this union. What we claim to the observations is that both sides are delivered as a single and solid account, as is usually done in other places. This important deficiency that emerges every year in the observations can remain solved with the approval of the law accompanying assumptions of the 17th, where the necessary changes are formulated in order to update the deficiencies that will return to the year, as I said before, are expressed at their presentation. Apart from the assumptions, there are the Catalan public universities and all their dependent entities, that is, the eight Catalan public universities are out of this account that has returned and then are not in the report, that does not mean that they are not taxed for this union, but we tax them apart from what the general account would be. A limitation for carrying out operational or management audits or the results of the retout accounts is the lack of submission of supporting memoranda of the costs and returns of the public services and the degree of compliment of the programmed objectives, which should be prepared and submitted in accordance with the applicable legislation. The presupposition, as I said at the beginning, of 2013 was not approved of the 1st generation, for which the 2013 thing was started with an extended presupposition. The application criteria for this extension were established by means of Decree 170/2012 of 27 December, which guarantees that during its term of office the expenditure limit not authorised for 2013 will not be exceeded. The State Administration revised the deficit target during 2013 and this resulted in the modification of the extended credit percentages set out in the previous decree. The presupposition extension has been in effect throughout the 2013 fiscal year. Apart from the report, it begins with the opinion derived from the tax work carried out, where the Union of Accounts concludes the following: "The results of the work carried out show that the general account of the year 2013 has been presented in agreement with the principles and presuppositionary accounting standards that apply to it, and that the economic activity and financing that reflects it has been completed in agreement with the principle of legality. Tax work, however, has been affected by the aspects that are shown in the thirty general observations and in the notes and recommendations that are derived from the work done. I have to say, and I say every year, that a good part of the observations of the work are similar or similar to those formulated in previous reports because either they have not been corrected or the recommendations of the girls have not been accepted, and also some because the solution would imply, as I have also said to the engineer, legislative changes that have not yet taken place. Also at the length of the report is a fan to note some of the best introduced in the 2013 account, of which the following can stand out. One, all debt operations have been authorized for the State. Two accounting deficits have been resolved by reclassifying different parts of the asset and separating the short-term portion of the long-term; they have adapted to the calculation of the provision for insolvencies to the import of rights pending due penalty, and the General Intervention has improved in the presentation of different financial states, such as the treasury account and the treasury Romanesque state. These are the four best highlights in the report. As a result of the taxation, I said earlier that thirty observations are made as to the conclusions. I'll make a small summary of these thirty points. First, and I have also said before, Catalan legislation still does not regulate the need to present a single consolidated account that rules the entire financial economic activity of the Catalan public sector. The financing needs of the 2013 financial year have been 3,860_million euros, according to the calculations of the IGAE, of the General Intervention of the State, and supposes a deficit of 2_percent of the GDP before the objective, which was of the 1,58. For the 2013 financial year, the Generality completed the public debt target and the expenditure rule, but it deviated, as I said before, from the 2nd on the 1,58th of the fiscal stabilization target. The investment executed and not imputed to the 2013_presupposition was estimated at EUR 137.43 million, 73 million less than in 2012. These investments have been financed from years ago mostly for which they are known for alternative systems, such as surface rights, concessions, financing leases, etc., which do not have any effect on presuppositional comptability until payment is made, but the investment executed and not presupposed could be considered as expenditure on the deficit calculation not to be financed. The authorisation of these alternate systems in the later exercises to build equipment and infrastructure assumes that the payment of related channels and loggers is accounted for in the current expenditure chapters of the assumption. This commitment expenditure limits the availability of credit, which is also signed to cope with operating expenditure. In other words, it should be borne in mind that the subsequent resolution to award investment projects with these alternative systems was in 2009, that is to say, since 2009 the contract amendments are not for new contracts, only because they are amendments to the original contract. That's to say, the original contracts go to the last auctions in 2009. Another observation. Incorrect recording criteria have been observed in various presuppositional applications that are detailed in the report. The expenditure of the Administration of the Generalitat del CatSalut, the ICC and the ICASS, realized since 2013 and not presupposedly accounted for, is to say, what is known as the "displaced, crazy demise of 2,300_million euros. In the previous fiscal year the expenditure transferred from year to year was 1,793. The present Consolidated Three-Time Romanesque State does not distinguish between the affected and the unaffected Romanesque; the high negative amount of this financial state, less 4,234_million euros at 31 December 2013, indicates a risk situation for the three-time tensions that can be generated. The credit risk allowance granted at 31 December 2013 was EUR 4,410_million. As much as it has decreased in relation to the previous year, it still assumes, from our point of view, a high mass of xifra. The General Administration continues to apply the General Public Compatibility Plan approved in year 96; it would be useful to adapt it to the state plan or the current plan at the level of the rest of the Spanish State of Public Compatibility, which was approved in 2010. The public sector must improve – and this in the observations is more detailed – in the presentation and adequacy of inventories, update them so that they match their accounting records. As the conclusion of these observations and as the final recommendation of the report says: "The union calls for the necessary measures to be taken to address the observations and deficiencies exposed, especially the applicants a year later, as well as for those responsible to report on these adapted corrective measures. And as a consequence of all that and what has become manifest, the union continues – we said a year ago – to see the delicate financial situation of the Generalitat on 31 December 2013 from the following parameters: the need for financing – funding denied –, the Romant of treasuries, the propitious funds denied and the high debt owed and the burden caused by the commitments of spending future exercises. As more significant magnitudes went out during the report we could highlight the following. The consolidated budgetary result in 2013 has a non-financing deficit of EUR 3,203 million; it is said that the reduction level is maintained compared to the previous years. The current and consolidated debt of the entire Generality Administration and Managing Entities period was at the end of 2013 of €48,019_million, with an increase of 14_per_cent compared to the previous year. The total number of staff, as of 31 December 2013, was 124,094 with a total remuneration of €4,472_million. 2012 these 124,094 was a little bit more, they were 124,316; it is said, that the template is maintained. During 2013 the Generalitat continued to use, because it had no more resemblance, different extraordinary financing mechanisms, which are created for the State. The details of the operations are as follows: in supplier payments, stage 2, 737_million euros; supplier payments, stage 3, 1,489,23_million euros, and the FLA, the autonomous liquidity fund, in its trams 1 and 2, respect to this exercise amounted to 10,835,26_million euros. It is to say, that the total amount of funds obtained with the financing, with these types of products, was 13,062.15_million euros. During 2013, 22,573 administrative contracts were signed, amounting to 1,239_million euros. In 2012, the previous year, 17.268 had been signed, that is, an increase of 30_per_cent. The account of the autonomous entities of the administered character includes the accounts of twenty-three entities; all of these entities have presented themselves in accordance with the regulations and have to highlight, from these twenty-three, three that account for 79_percent of the aggregate total, which are the Catalan Council of the Esport, the Catalan Transit Service and the SOC. These three account for almost 80_percent of the total twenty-three. Non-administrative entities, in general, continue to significantly reduce their names in the execution of those measures that have already been approved years in terms of content and rationality. The reduction in the number of these entities between 2012 and 2013_was 14_per_cent. With each year, the report was approved a time-tested and answered the submissions submitted and, as you can see, the report was accompanied by two private votes. I would like to conclude this intervention by reiterating, like other occasions, the need to resolve the observations that have been made by us every year in the general account. And also to make a point of what I said at the beginning: that, despite the limitations of the resources available, in all that is at our hands we will continue to work to narrow down the current terms, that today we present 2013 and that it is a year and a half ago that has already entered this Parliament, soon we can present already, and discuss, I suppose, in the plenary also that of 2014 and tank 2015. I'm aware that this term could still be narrower, but... and so we are... and our goal is to achieve it. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.3.0	Many thanks; many thanks, Mr. Amath. Once the presentation of the syndic major has been completed, we will now move to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to determine their position. In the first place, has the word the Lord Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.4.0	Thank you, Madam President. Vice-President, Members of Parliament, Deputy Mayor and members of the trade union and other people who are with us today from the rostrum, very good morning to everyone. From Citizens we want first to thank the union for the great effort they have made to draw up this report on the General Account of the Generalitat of Catalonia 2013, and to do what is extended, this thanks, for the other reports that are bringing us to the Commission of the Union of Accounts of this Parliament. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the report, concerning the Generalitat account, is to give an opinion on the economic and financial information presented by the Generalitat and by the General Intervention of the Generalitat..., it is in accordance with the accounting principles that are applicable..., and also on compliance with the law. Moreover, all reports, precisely because they are necessary, contain measures and recommendations necessary to improve the management of the Generalitat from the information obtained. In other words, it is a report where the union analyses how the budget has been implemented and makes the relevant recommendations to us. It analyses the implementation of the budget..., which has been carried out in accordance with the different rules that apply to it, and, of course, it must be analysed if it complies with what has been approved in the Budget Act itself. But, ladies and gentlemen, a monitoring report that we know of, either because it is being drawn up with a certain delay, plus the delay added by the government itself, by Parliament itself, we could say, although we already know who is running Parliament..., it also delays its knowledge and debate..., because it clearly lacks the usefulness that it would have if those deadlines were to be shortened. That the 2009 report is known in 2012, that the 2012 report is known in 2015 and that the 2013 report is known in 2017, is it worth much? That's a question I ask, which I logically answer later. If we add to the year-to-year difference between the audit and the audit report that many of the recommendations are being dragged and dragged year after year without being answered or corrected, what is the point of these reports? Honestly, from Citizens we think that practically for nothing, or at best for very little. We need more time-bound information, and that is precisely why we from Citizens have tabled a motion for a resolution so that it is quarterly for the Government to report on developments in budget implementation and possible deviations. This Parliament and the Government of the Generalitat must definitely do something about this. We can't go on like this. We believe that the figure of the trade union, as well as the other control and control bodies, should be strengthened and strengthened with more powers and means. Or, as the union itself has indicated..., it is that a part of the companies that have the obligation to control today are inhibited from it because they are controlled, audited, by private companies or by the General Intervention itself. Let us avoid duplication and gain in efficiency. In any case – in any case – we must make it possible for the union to submit its reports within a much shorter time frame and close to the exercise carried out, and we will support any steps that progress in that direction. If the deadlines are not much shorter, the reports already reach us as elements of analysis to improve political management. The data and information they contain have lost all value when they reach us, especially at a time when the speed of social and economic change has accelerated. We must therefore also speed up control and ultimately control mechanisms. He told them that from Citizens we want more powers and means so that the Union of Accounts can carry out a diligent and rigorous monitoring of the entire public sector of Catalonia. And we find it unacceptable that irregularities are being reported year after year in areas such as public procurement, execution of works, evaluation of the immobilised person, and those recommendations are also ignored year after year. Ladies and gentlemen, I insist that we must do something other than forget the union's recommendations. From our point of view, legal amendments are necessary to ensure that the recommendations are enforced. In this regard, we have again made, within our possibilities, motions for resolutions containing the recommendations..., so that they must be complied with, and we will be concerned that those resolutions..., we will try to have them adopted and, of course, that they will not stop in the drawer of oblivion. On the other hand, the report sets out thirty recommendations on different aspects of the Generalitat account. Let me start by highlighting the striking fact that one more year, by the way, Catalonia's legislation does not require the preparation and presentation of the general account as a consolidated set of the public sector. The consolidated presentation that takes into account and eliminates internal transfers between the entities forming the consolidation perimeter itself is a necessary and binding practice, and there is nothing that can justify that the General Intervention does not present that general account in a consolidated form. We claim it. In the absence of consolidation, it must be added that the intervention of the Generalitat has never presented, and I say well, not once, not once, not once, not once, the supporting memory of the costs and returns of the public services and of the degree of compliance with the established programmes and objectives. That is to say, Members of Parliament, a fundamental measure for the transparency and evaluation of the efficiency of public services and policies, to which article 81 of the Law on Public Finance of the Generalitat also requires, is not complied with, because neither the General Intervention nor the Government of the Generalitat wants them. They will have to understand, therefore, that citizens come to the conclusion that it is clear that there is a need to establish a budgetary office that does not depend on the Government to assess the efficiency of public services and policies and to report directly to Parliament and citizens. Another important chapter of the report refers to the deficit and debt, and I shall refer to that. The report highlights that public debt is intended to be camouflaged, and therefore in 2013 no financial indebtedness was considered to be the credits and advances granted by the Catalan Institute of Finance. How is that possible? The report also shows the Government's failure to meet the deficit target. And that doesn't surprise us. It was predicted of 1.58 and was of 2_per_cent. But this, as I said, does not surprise us, because the non-compliance has continued in successive years, and that makes the Generalitat's debt set for 2017 at 77,500_million_de_euros. Especially significant, so much so that it even deserves a particular vote from the syndic Don Jordi Pons i Novell, is the financial and accounting engineering that is practiced through administrative concessions and surface rights by which a private entity is responsible for the construction of the infrastructure or equipment, its maintenance and operation for a certain period of time and reintegrates it to the Administration when this period ends. In practice, ladies and gentlemen, in practice, ladies and gentlemen, through this system concessionary or surface companies take no risk and transfer it to public administrations. If the business goes wrong, nothing happens: the benefits are insured and we will pay the citizens. This is what we already know as the socialisation of losses. In Citizens we call it "capitalism of friends, because it favors friends and their businesses by guaranteeing the benefits without risk. So anyone can be an entrepreneur. As I said, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, this capitalism of friends implies, as I said, a certain financial and accounting engineering through which the cost is also intended to be transferred to subsequent years of execution. And that, for what purpose? For, again, with that of mocking the budgetary constraints, because this does not appear as deficit and indebtedness what is really deficit and indebtedness. In short, these forms of public-private collaboration, in addition to being financial engineering operations, involve very high costs for citizens, and should be considered, as I said, indebtedness of the Generalitat de Catalunya. We are also alerted to the union's report that none of the credit modifications to expandable items were supported by revenue, which meant that there was a further budget deficit. But it's no use being alerted to what happened in 2013. In subsequent years, including 2017, more expenditure continues to be generated without the return of more revenue. Specifically in the 2017 law of measures, different and varied funds are wanted to be introduced that will be provided with resources from once again increasing the deficit and the debt with the sole objective of contenting the government partners, that is to say the CUP. It also denounces the report year after year the trap and illegality – and illegality – for non-compliance with public finances that involves carrying out expenses in one year and accounting for the following due to lack of budget credit. In other words, the trap is being set to move some of the expenditure incurred in the year under review to the following year. For example, as health expenditure in the 2013 financial year is higher than budgeted, the difference is transferred to the 2014 financial year. The expenditure incurred during the financial year 2013 and unaccounted for amounted to the scandalous figure of 2,300_million. The budget hid 2,300_million deficits. But the unfortunate thing is not that this budget fraud occurred in 2013. The unfortunate thing is that it is repeated year after year, and it will be repeated again in 2017, where it is already known that spending, only in health, will be higher than budgeted at at least 1,000_million_of_euro. Whom does the Government of the Generalitat intend to deceive by this? I only think of one subject of deception: the citizenship of Catalonia. Look, the successive Convergence governments, supported by Esquerra Republicana, and now together in the Junts pel Si coalition, have been set up in a policy of income and expenditure that generates a growing indebtedness that, as I said, reaches 77,500_million and puts us at the top of the ranking of public debt of the autonomous communities. As the amount of debt is very large, the worst of all is that in order to reduce the enormous weight of debt, several operations have been launched that have resulted in large amounts of debt, and thus showed their inability as a government to make good management. I am referring to the award of ATLL, which, although carried out in 2011, is still in the 2017 budget. And of course I have to refer to the ruinous sale of Tabasa, which together with the rescue of the eix Vic-Ripoll show very clearly – but very clearly – how the capitalism of friends also affects Catalonia, is also involved in Catalonia. It is all these examples of alleged large operations that have actually turned out to be large stubble. Well, well, in view of all this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.5.0	Mr. Spiny, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.6.0	One minute – one minute –, Madam President. Well, I finish, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that Citizens are going to vote in favour of the report of the Union of Auditors, because, although late in the day, it serves to confirm the suspension of the Government of the Generalitat on budgetary management. However – and I really finish already – we want to make our own the particular vote of the syndicate Jordi Pons Novell, and ask the union, precisely, that for future reports take into account those that he points out in the report that they have presented to us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.7.0	Mr. Spiny, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.8.0	Thank you very much, Madam President; thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.9.0	Thank you, Mr. Spiny. Mr Ordeig, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.10.0	Good morning. Welcome to the members of the Union of Accounts, major syndic, vice president, economic adviser, deputies, deputies, well, first place, to position the Socialist Group around the procedure relating to the General Account of 2013, entered, as it was said, in 2015, therefore, a year and a half after entering this Parliament, which obviously we should have hoped for because the proper one could be discussed before. In the first place, please, as always, the good work, the good work, the clarity, the completion of the reports of the Union of Accounts of this, of the general account, as well as of the different entities, of the different departments that are analyzed throughout the year and that complement perfectly this general account that we are debating here today. Different recommendations that we add, as we say, to those that have already been made to the union committee and that need to be taken into account. We will obviously, as always, make a very technical assessment, in respect of the report, which is also the one that touches, but obviously also a political assessment of the political context that we have encountered, of the public policies that have decided to promote, and that some are proving themselves, even though it is as late as 2013, but that there have been errors, that have not worked, from here, from there and beyond – from here, from the Government of Spain and the European Union. So, there are fears..., and above all, obviously, focusing on those themes that are critical here, they will come out again in 2014, they will come out in 2012, and that is repeated and repeated and that we should solve them at once, so as not to make the members of the labor union go on and, therefore..., man, to try to resolve and be up to the height of what citizens and citizens demand from us of maximum transparency, of maximum good management and, therefore, of good use of public resources. As has been said, we came from a complicated economic context. It has been shown that there have been misguided public policies and the numbers show this, not only for the economic crisis, not only for the consolidation of GDP, not only for retailing at all levels that make it less money in Europe, less money in the State, less money, at least at the beginning of the economic crisis, and also obviously less money in the Generality because it was the first money in the world, but also to believe that everything that was possible had to be cut. Therefore, a model that has proved to be ineffective, that does not fight only..., does not recover the economy, but, moreover, increases inequalities and damages what is happening worse – important to say with the data there is from the 2013 assumption. In summary: good technical and detailed analysis of the report, lack of important information of the entities, of the intervention, that does not add up..., important information that does not add up and, therefore, that would resolve; finds policies and management errors of the past years– policies, obviously–, and, obviously, to note, remember, that we come from a assumption of 2013, that it was an extended assumption of the prolongation of those who say sometimes that they are so painful pacted with the People's Party, if they remember, therefore, with the priorities also of the People's Party ; to remember it. On the general account, I will not expand on those more technical issues, which have already been discussed both for the syndic and for Ciutadans's company. Obviously, according to accounting principles and standards – I would just miss it – and with legality. A general account of EUR 37,000_million; an extensive document of many pages with thirty recommendations, some of which are repeated, which we will look at above all that those in the next report do not repeat, we will insist, and surely that what we must do is to push in the different commissions to see as fem control mechanisms, taxation mechanisms, mechanisms to ask the economic adviser to resolve, control, solve the recommendations that have come out. It has already been said: "I do not include all entities in the public sector. How can you analyze, how can you assess the public sector, its efficiency, its management, its debt, its deficit without a consolidated assumption, as it does, of all entities in the public sector? Impossible. As it was said, without universities it is not possible. It is impossible to have a reliable photo, faithful to reality if we do not clearly have a consolidated as it touches, and more in the context we find ourselves. There is no balance sheet of the aggregated balance sheet. Discrepancies about debt financing for a lot that is not very large, but also a very high issue. Deficits, which are repeated since 2010, alarming and which cause tensions, as we have seen, of unbearable treasuries for much that has diminished respect to 2012 but that, obviously, as we say before, we have not corrected the debt, which has multiplied by two since 2010, neither correct the deficits, and then, obviously, we cannot sustain public resources because there is no money. Therefore, everything goes in cascade and, in the end, we can't do, we can't deploy, we can't push the public policies that we defend. Therefore, errors in the recording of various presuppositional applications – certainly, lacking that obviously some of the ones who are here complained about, there also voted in favour of an excessively strict law that marked excessive deficits – is not compatible with 2013 expenses of the ICS and the Cat Salut, apart from deficiencies in the information of the ICS, the Cat Salut and the ICASS. In total, as has already been said, 2,300_million euros of expenditure incurred, not accounted for– 2,300_million euros of expenditure incurred, not accounted for – from those invoices that then appear and are pouring, which pass to 2014 and, obviously, pull the pilot forward. One point: I believe that the general account of 2013 perfectly visualizes not only the flaws of an era and of misguided policies, but also, obviously, that it asks us that, at that time, we should be thinking about what..., in a system of exhausted financing, at a time of economic crisis that surely should review it and obviously every year that went by was more necessary. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , it is more necessary to review this model of autonomous financing, as today is also obvious. Quarterly information: the quarterly information was not published so that there is a follow-up of the morositude, that there is more transparency; therefore, information to the day on what is happening with the threefold, with the payments. The accounts do not include the affected and unaffected three-timer novel, a non-minor theme. The novelist of menys treoreria – menys– 4,234_million euros, negatius; as we have said, tensions of treoreria, bestial. The rationale for costs and returns is not present. Today more than ever, as well as some points that are made in the private votes of the end, that I would include them as appropriate, we also need to evaluate the investment financing systems that we have made, re-evaluate them, think of those that are now and those that have been before clearly as we have done and if we need to change the way of..., or evaluate on a case-by-case basis, as well as the supporting cost and return memories. There's no reason if it's not that you don't bring us anything. Therefore, it cannot be that memoirs are neither present nor present. Deficiencies related, as we have said, to the balance of the situation of the CatSalut, the ICSS and the ICASS, the immobilized material assets, but also the information they provide, the control. CatSalut, ICS and ICASS move, manage a lot of public money, especially in sanitation. Therefore, it is more worth presenting the documentation in time and form when it touches because then the union reports during the year, so, man, we can get rid of some cursecaps, some recommendations, that some obviously do pose red. And some responsibility that our group can also hold but not since 2010. Detailed account information is missing. Litigation? The great dispute, ATLL – the great dispute, ATLL –, as well as works with finance affected, as we say, operations with financial derivatives, which also deserve a chapter apart, interests derived, changes of..., increases and decreases in types of interest. And, as we have clearly said, there are no memoirs, information from the different entities. There are a few better ones that have already been mentioned in respect of the previous year, that the debt is all authorized, the provisions for insolvency have been better suited... So, in this sense, no problem. Remember, as we said, the debt, that we had gone from 28,000_millions today to 68, and in 2013 to 48, 48,000–48,000–millions. So we don't just cut in deficit, we don't just cut in debt, but everything grows and grows – and grows and grows – and cuts – we cut, cuts – in 2013, huh? 2013. [[The timer laughs.]] It's just that talking four years... four years is already as if... [[Rialles.]] In any case, the debt is 68,000, it has multiplied by two since 2010, that's right – that's right. Great funding needs, as we said: we went 2011 to 6,700, now we were 2013 to 3,200, we were reduced. And, obviously, we agree – we say so, we say it and we say it – that the deficit targets and the debt limits imposed on the Generality are insufficient, intolerable and, obviously, unfair. Liquidity funds. It also began with interests that were surely higher than they were playing, but in the end the Autonomous Liquidity Fund was a good instrument that in the end restructured the entire generality debt with smaller interests than the market. In that, in 2013, 13,000_millions, we started operations with 13,000_millions, as was said. Also a mistake that proved to be, hard mistake, the sale of assets, privatizations. We're coming to what she gives us money, to what is profitable. Come on, let's... let's go to the house and get together. And then it turns out that they're pushing the lodgers and that we said we'd come for a quantity, in the end we're coming for a lot less because obviously you don't need to be a real estate expert to know that there was an economic crisis and that you're selling them real estate, obviously it's paid less. Therefore, we do not comply with the initial forecast, we have to sell under cost and then pay more in taxes and privatizations, plus we have more problems for possible judicial compensations. Obviously, without going into the resource war between the Generality and the State: by whatever imposition we were here, appeals that presented us there, and did not give us a new financing, nor did they allow us to impose taxes. So, we share this, but this is what happens when two don't talk, it's that in the end nobody does. Another topic as we spoke to the public workers, was the name of public workers..., the cost of public workers was falling, because we related the extra pay, we pushed the expense and the number of other workers, little or much, but it was of those things that we would have to fix a little more: we told the public workers, we pushed the other workers, at a time of crisis. I think that... like the councilman at that time too... they were, there, starting a pine tree with Convergence, so that's why I'm telling you, huh? [[The timer laughs.]] What else? It would be useful to take into account all irregularities detected in repeated contracting procedures in the different union reports. We make ourselves, as we said, the two private votes. Commitments. We need to look at future spending commitments, at today's decisions to mortgage tomorrow, so we need to look at them; the context has changed, so we cannot follow the same lines as we did before. To evaluate public-private collaboration – to evaluate public-private collaboration –: consortia, entities, privatizations, I think it is..., on a case-by-case basis, as that said, party-by-party; a model that could be good at a time or in a given management, has no reason to be the norm, so perhaps all folds should be checked if there has not been a bust and if then it can be taxed as it touches. Control of the remuneration of staff, and also the analysis..., another particular vote, which said that there was a more detailed analysis of the general account, because it is so great, there are so many themes, that it would be better to deepen it, and that sometimes it cannot be said that it is a faithful image of the financial situation. This was also a particular vote; it could be taken into account. In summary, because we have fifty-five seconds left, our vote, technically... obviously, we give all our support to the union's indications, but obviously there are also some fears that have not been resolved and on which we have some doubts. We will vote for forbearance, obviously, to make it easier for it to come, but neither can we support it; nor can we oppose it. The closure, in summary, shows an increase in the debt and deficit; austerity that has not taken place; the sale of assets and privatizations, which has increased the loguers, has proved to be erratic and unfeasible for the future of Catalans; great contentious pendings, such as ATLL; it has to evaluate – also in our case – the public-private collaboration and the abuse, surely, that can not be done in certain cases; the retailing in public services such as sanitation and education, obviously have shown that it also generates a problem. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] in order to have major entrances, and, obviously, as we related to public personnel, we increased to the top. I'm done, President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.11.0	Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.12.0	...only to say, obviously, that the Generality lacks control...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.13.0	...it has to be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.14.0	...of public entities, on a day-to-day basis, in the management, and obviously in the obligation..., and resources that are needed to force the recommendations to be completed. Therefore, for all these motius, president, deputies, deputies, councillor, members of the union, the vote of the Socialist Group will be abstaining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.15.0	Thank you, Mr. Ordeig. Next is the words of Mrs Àngels Martínez, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.16.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Syndic Major, members of the syndic, the public that he attends, deputies and deputies... Well, today we're reviewing general pro-cyclical accounts, in a context of detail, as it has been said, and that, therefore, like all that is pro-cyclical in this situation, there is also a private benefit content that we will then try to demonstrate. Even though I would like to say..., and add to the petition that these reports should not only have a social view of public costs-benefits, not only private, but also a gender impact, which does not only force the law on us, but I think it would explain very much the elements that are causing these policies, which are then reflected, when it is monetaritzen, when we translate them into money, when we translate them into accounts of assumptions or public enterprises, in the tensions that exist. I think they're coming together, plus more than the recommendations, basically four warning signs, under these assumptions. And, of course, I don't know how hard it is for a while now – we know the slowness of the Administration – but the fact that we repeat a year ago, report back, the same mistakes, is to say, we go soaking up the same stone. And at the same time I find that there is a certain disconnect between these reports – technically, surely, therefore, very well done – and the realities that they were giving themselves, because when this report that you are presenting today was precisely being prepared, or that is being presented today, so there was also a young journalist from Girona asking..., asked the president: "Where are my money? And this search to save where things are was based, basically, on a lack of transparency, but also on a lack of that which the Anglo-Saxons say in accountability, that is, of the culture of accountability and of actually carrying public accounts..., to the benefit of the vast majority of the population. I, therefore, would assign these four warning signs. The first is – that this is also traditional of the whole State – the lack of consolidated assets accounts, which, for another band, are impossible, is to demand an impossible one, because with the public-private confusion that there is – which would be another of the alert signs, surely the most important one – as it can be, indeed, this consolidated state of public property accounts? We would, therefore, have the lack of consolidation. The second would be the lack of implementation of spending commitments that compromise government action, as we know, as we have seen, of future governments. This public-private collaboration that distorts not only government action, but also distorts even all the words, because of public-private collaboration the first thing I would do would be to put the word collaboration into question. And you remind me of Humpty Dumpty, don't you? The important thing is not what the words mean, but who is the love of the words; and it is obvious that at the time this report is made, the owner of the words was, among others, the Lord – when he is talking about sanitation – Boi Ruiz. And it was very clear that we were entering this time of linguistic confusion, but also alternate facts that Trump has now put in fashion, but that he opened, somehow, Boi Ruiz, when in these years of this report is the Councillor of Health, but at the same time he recommends already that we enter into a mutual, an alternative fact that seems to me to be already explaining to us that this public-private collaboration is not such, in fact, the private sector that is using the public sector as it pleases. And finally, the other was staff salaries, but staff salaries in two ways: for one band, the sub-highs, incredibly disproportionate in relation to other roles and other responsibilities of the Administration, and, for another, the tibantors, the stripes and the flaps that affect the under-people, the common people, the people who are making the attention, the cure, etc. Then, I'm here... well, there's been a lot of talk about the report. I believe that the report, therefore, says what you say, is inquiring where you are inquiring, but I would also like to emphasize basically one of the allegations that is fan, by constant, by repetitive, and because somehow it would be helpful to congratulate the syndic's tenacity in assigning these alert signs. They are not personal attachments, even though they are present, they are alert signs from where we are carrying public accounts. Mr Pons Novell says that they are operations, we are talking about the "collaboration of this, between comets, public-private, high-complexity operations, which have a high subjectivity in risk transfer analysis. More than subjectivity I think that it could also be objective part of the sense in which this transfer of risks went, which in some cases are difficult to control. Very much! Because I remember talking to the former major syndic, Mr. Colom, and I had asked him what was going on with the construction costs of the month Broggi and I didn't know how to explain it to me, and I don't know if we would now have a coherent explanation of the control that still can be carried from hospitals, for example, emblematic, like this – malaguanyat the name that posed it. They are long term, obviously, and they are long term because they affect twenty-five years, thirty years or more, when the legislatures are four years old and there may be a change of government. They compromise spending, and more than spending, they compromise investment, which is much more important; they involve an intergenerational transfer of costs; they affect the principle of presuppositional transparency – I am following the allegations that you made –; mortgage assumptions of the future – that, I assume, Mr. Junqueras will give me the reason–, and they decide for a period of many years a certain model of infrastructure management. Infrastructures and more, because, look, the last time we had Health Commission and we were questioning the model of management of sanitation, your group did not want to question the model of management of sanitation, and it was simply asked that it is questionable, that it is reviewed, that it is analyzed, that it is seen if it was the best model. And, no, it was given for good; it was given for good knowing that this model of management is what makes the reports have the problems that they have, they have the bugs that they have and they have a year back, a year back, and they have the attachments that they have. And finally it is..., to the references to accounting creativity, to financing engineering, is to say, to all these translations in "falseness" of which are the alternative facts, also in comptability and in public accounts, in things that are all and that end up feeling, going through this creative comptability, only some. What advantage does it have that we only see it... well, with a certain delay? We have an advantage, and we can remember the historical moment in which this is given. I'll put context, historical context, which I think the counselor sometimes likes, and see, for example, as in these assumptions..., in these general accounts we're talking about a transfer, a 25_million grant to Opus schools, and here there's no detail, now it's 30_million to the schools that secrete by sex. But there's more. For example, in 2014, the tides, the tides defending the public had already spread'sa Catalunya. There was the White Sea – and in Boi Ruiz, at the top of its destructive action of public health – they understand this public-private collaboration as in fact what it was, what it was, the kidnapping of that public for a few, had achieved incredible mobilizations. For example, what was known as "the rebellion of the ports of call" in Bellvitge, but that at all events it was the struggle for the lists of wait, to detail the lists of wait, and that it managed to gather people from Tauli, from..., Fi, from the Valley of Hebron, from SAP Muntanya, from everything else, because the lists of wait were also a mechanism that terbulates this..., or facilitator of this mechanism of collaboration, among many comets, "public-private". And he got one more thing, which I think is important: it's that some sick people chain themselves to bed when the plants are shut down. This is an unprecedented force in this country. Are they getting along? That the people you have for, who are sick, who are not well, have planted face and defended their bed, because he knew that the public bed that he was using as the patient, when you stop being good, would become a private bed... Well, the degree of citizenship, of civic feeling, of hearing that it is a human right on the part of this evil, was far superior to that of the Health Councillor of those moments. And there were many more things. For example, at the time of the great discussion of the transfer of the traumas of the Sagrat... – Dr. Germà Bel, thanks – from the trauma doctors of the Sagrat Cor to the Hospital Clínic, despite the assembly of doctors, and knowing that the Sagrat Cor belonged at that time to Capio, it was also a time when behavior had been discussed – I am giving examples of what public-private collaboration is, eh? – of the teacher Master of León, who did not want to operate a disease of the skein, the Lord Villarán, for the public, because he said that he did not come out from there where he believed that it was important, and, therefore, he had to operate for the private; in which Dr Carmen Pérez, who was a deputy in the lists of Ciutadans, cried out the professionals to rebel against the retails; in which another deputy, Isabel Vallet, of the CUP, made some magnificent days when sovereignty was decided, where it was intended to decide the sovereignty of the sanitarium, and another deputy, Marta Ribas, interpelava Boi Ruiz and made a list of questions that were to be achieved, among other things, to stop the first day of participation in La Pedrera's suspension, was not to privatize. And they had to suspend her, why? Because in the background good part of what is going on with this confusion of public and private, of the lack..., of the tensions in the subs, of all that is-there, what happens is that there is a participation that is not that warm or is not recognized as hot. And it's also the year of VISC+ – let's remember – that was already the very clear sale of private data to the public. And it was also..., with the new seconds remaining for me, to remember that it was the year that Marina Geli crossed the revolving doors and entered the Abbott, and now she is co-founder of this circle of salvation, that they say she wants to imitate the Circle of Economy and that so much good imitated the Circle of Economy in her first moment, not now. Not now, when what the Centre d'Economie wants, it's about politics. The first moment of the Cercle d'Economia was to open...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.17.0	Mrs. Martinez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.18.0	Yeah, yeah, I'm just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.19.0	...I know it's hard, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.20.0	...I just got it right away...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.21.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.22.0	...to open doors and windows to a more democratic Europe. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.23.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martinez. The words of Ms. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.24.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Good morning, President; good morning, counselors, deputies, syndics, who are up. First of all, we have the analysis of this report submitted to us by the Union of Accounts on the extended 2013 budget. It's just the moment, 2013, when a new era begins. And you will ask: "What was it? The era of governing without presupposition, the era of continuously prolonging the assumptions, the era of early elections, the era of leaving behind the essential interests and priorities and the daily priorities of the Catalans in order, in the end, to initiate a process that will not arrive in place, which is the subject of the process. That said, all assumptions that come after this 2013 have an essential element, and the essential element is the national transition. In the end, so much so that Catalans say that the things that affect their daily lives the most – and say not only the CEO, but also the CIS – are headings that are repeated a year ago and that have much to do with the state, public health, citizen security and public education; this is absolutely banded. And it's left over from the dissension concern for the daily lives of Catalans, which is what you say about the conflict between Catalonia and the rest of Spain; conflict, what you have, seems that the citizens don't see it. That said, and putting in the historical context these assumptions that are fiscal and what we are looking at today's report, we find ourselves with a reality, and it is that with this taxation it is obvious that both in the total execution and in the partial – in this there is no distinction – these assumptions, in general terms, are not suited to the economic needs of the moment, at the end of 2013, and to the priorities that were held in Catalonia in 2013, which is not surprising either, is it not? It may also be said that, as we have already warned at the time, at the time of the extension of these assumptions, they were cowardly assumptions. And this is also showing what the tax report says about its execution. At the time we learned, through this report, things that we believe are essential to respect how a government is disrespectful and irresponsible from the political point of view with the management of what is the present and future of Catalans. Why? In the first place we would assign something that we believe is very important: the Catalan citizens must know that we have pending accounts and pending payments until – escort – 2041. These are the bills that remain unpaid. And from what do we get these data? They derive from the fiscal execution of this assumption. It emerges when they sum up and see that the financing, as we speak of the "alternative financing, which appears with a particular vote, that is to finance future equipment, buildings and certain services, more than the tolls in the shade..., leave us an invoice and invoices to pay until 2041. I repeat, we are analyzing the assumptions of 2013. What's that supposed to mean? That, if every time a presumption is carried out, we add payments to the terms of the future of twenty-seen years ahead, what will we achieve, or what will the government get back? : condition generations of catalans. This is not just said by the People's Party, but also by a private vote, by Mr Jordi Pons. This is not just a political irresponsibility, but what the government finds is that, in the end, it does not only govern the legislature in which it is chosen for citizenship, but for future generations. We are concerned; we are concerned, above all, not only about the tolls in the shadow, but about the bust that you have made of the surface right. The representative of the Socialist Party, who seems to have nothing to do with this on the surface right, has come here, but I must tell you that this you have institutionalized together with the members of the Republican Left who are now part of the government; I mean that some responsibility I say that they are. It is true that after, therefore, even though it is said that there are no new payments for new infrastructure and equipment until 2009, the reality is that we will see what the government is doing. For all that, it is fixed that even with this financing and with this alternative financing and payments to the future appears to us – surprise, surprise! – that we have to pay until the year 2108 – 2108, I repeat – we have to pay for the center and the construction of prevention of the Free Zone. We'll talk this late, see if it's built or not; but for now we'll pay for it. Secondly, we have detected something that seems essential to us as an example of a lack of political responsibility in the exercise and control of public debt and of the money of all Catalans. The data is historical. It seems to me that the representative of the Socialist Party has given some data; I think it is important that you see what the public debt we have is. When the tripartite ended, the first Government of Convergence said that the debt – the debt – was historic, right? , and that we practically started a legislature in a situation of brutal economic obligation for a mismanagement of public debt. But the reality is that in Convergence, now in the hands of the Republican Left, they have worked hard and made a great deal of it, to overcome these figures. What do you mean, that? It means that we have a debt of EUR 74,757 million and that, along with the typical and classic mantra of independence, that this is Madrid's fault, if we look at it, not only in this report, but in the implementation of previous assumptions, we will find ourselves with a reality: that the fault is here, as is the money of Catalonia, of Catalans? Mirin, when they are irresponsibly managed, and then, on the report, they detect irregularities in the way they store debt..., you store debt with ICF credits and non-repayable beasts. Two, count tickets for dispositions, which has already been explained here, about the sale of assets, which is then not complete. You decide that surely part of the sale of the assets will give some 942_million euros and meet reality, bany of reality: the reality is that it doesn't even come to 300. This, together with a structural expenditure problem. Where is the structural problem of expenditure harder? So, it's harder in current transfers. Clearly, news of the state of the Catalan public hospitals and news of the information and also the plans of the newspapers are being published. And what's going on? Because the Generalitat does not get used to paying in terms, in time or in quantity the current transfers: neither to CatSalut, nor to ICS, nor to ICASS. And what it generates is that it is to be indebted in the future until the so scandalous xifra of 2,309_million euros. And then they freak out about the news, but that's reality. When a public service as essential as sanitation is poorly managed, then what happens happens. We've found ourselves with an element that we consider essential to talk about, and it's the deficiency. Like you're going to go through another time in the mantra, we'll tell you one thing: in the end, a lot of noise for nothing. The reality is that while you were claiming to lower this deficit and the reality is that the Government of Spain is making an effort, it is better finance and lowers this deficit that is transferable to the autonomous communities..., it is the same, if you never cover it! In an example: 2013, the deficit that Mr. Colell claimed was 1 and a half percent, the deficit that was ultimately fixed was 1.3_per_cent; what was done? , 2,7_per_cent. I mean, a lot of asking for, in the end, not to complete the same thing, right? And yet, it has to be noted that in the report – given that we already have, but we like the fact that it is noted in this report –..., there were possibilities of financing that would alleviate a little the economic and disability situation that the Generality has. And it is that while with private financing the Generality is financing a 5, practically, like 1_per_cent, with the FLA – that mechanism that you say is perverse – is made the 1,14. This reality, in addition to the help of payment to suppliers, finally meant 13,000 in FLA, and also an essential part with this payment to suppliers, which has made the execution of this assumption no more deficient and more debt-to-future than it has already given. We have to find – we have to find – that errors in setting priorities also condition very much the implementation of the assumptions. You decide to allocate money to something else, and then what happens is that current transfers start to fail. But we also have to say one thing: what we have seen with this report is what we practically already knew, and it is that you, the generations of the future of Catalans, or even those of the present, do not interest them; you only think of political cycles. They've been pulling the pilot forward; another government will be coming, you know what color, you'll find it, and from here to between eighty and ninety years, maybe all the dead, right? This is a very hard – very hard – lack of political responsibility, for after making and always using the mantra that guilt is not one's own. We have decided that we will not approve this report. I would like to address directly to the union and to all the syndics, it is not a waste of their work, but it is in fact the finding that in certain observations made by you, between the thirty and the two private votes, as we agreed that it is not responsible to approve this report from the general account of the Generality. Why? We found three motius. In the first place – I think it has already been said and it is a little repeated – we are taking our share of the particular votes that are being cast, both for Mr. Pons and for Mrs. Balseiro. Second of all, we find a motion that we think is essential, you're on the front page, practically, of the report, right? , and it is: "The rationale for the costs and returns of public services has not been presented, nor has the degree of compliment given to the programmed objectives been presented. Well, if that's what happens, if we add that there is no memoir, that it's a fact that is reflected repeatedly in this tax report, if we add to it, then that there is a particular vote from Mr Pons, that what you say is that there should be a much deeper analysis of all this future debt displacement, of the intergenerational future that you say to the particular vote, it is very difficult, as Mrs Balseiro says, to draw a clear conclusion and a reliable picture of which is the economic situation and which is the financial situation, the execution and the results of these assumptions. With these reasons alone, we believe that it is impossible to approve a report. And that has nothing to do with the task that the union has done, which I know has made it very difficult for them, but it is a reality that we cannot ignore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.25.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Next is the words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.26.0	So, good morning, president. Members and Members, Vice-President, we would like to focus the view of the report or of the general account on two aspects which are relevant and which, in some way, in our view are related, which are set out in paragraph 4.6, that is to say, the general account of the public debt, and, in other words, the private vote of the Pons syndic, which has already been set out here, and which for us are two elements which, although they may seem to have some independence, therefore, we think that at the end they have a common nexus. I mean, generation of public debt and public-private collaboration, right? , which establishes a line of wire that for us, therefore, has a lot to see with the difficulties of autonomous management and which has a lot to see also with the rule of 78, that we so insist that we want to fight, in this model of public-private management that have exploited a lot, much so the governments of Convergence, but also the governments of the tripartite, in another way, but that they did not band it. Take the thread, in a way, of which Eulàlia Regant answered yesterday about which is our position on the question of the debt, of the deficit, we have to repeat once more that we are not opposed to the question of the debt or of the deficit, but what we reprimand is that there are those who negotiate with regard to this issue. And we think that what's on display with reports like we have here today is how taxpayers' resources end up serving, in the end, for..., they always end up in the same buttocks, that is, in the bank's buttocks, by means of, therefore, absolutely abusive figures or by means of..., or in the promoters' buttocks, many times, certainly, by means of the bank's participation or the same as usual, don't we? Just a few days ago, the union committee was discussing a report by the ACA covering the years 2011, 2012 and 2013 and, therefore, part of what was in that report is also represented today in this report of the general account, isn't it? In that report, which we already had the opportunity to discuss and on which we have put forward a motion for a resolution that is about to vote, it was clear that the ACA had been forced to contract certain claims with the banking entities that had established a 5_per_cent interest, right? , and at that time the same syndic established in the ACA's report that, effectively, was a very – very, very – interest – over the interests that in those moments were related to these credits. I think, if I'm not mistaken, speaking of memory, that explained that at the level of the market the interest was 1.30, 1.40_per_cent and that in changing to the Generalitat an interest of 5_per_cent was applied to it, right? So, we're particularly concerned about this. That is to say, about the bank's abuses, I think we haven't talked much, I think society is very minded, the question of unfair mortgages, of unfair mortgages, of clauses alone, and even of an organization that can be so poorly held, in some way, to be contrary to the question of the free market as is the Court of Justice of the European Union, has to recriminate the Spanish State its condescension with the abusive attitudes of the bank, doesn't it? And I think there's a certain consensus at this point that the bank's abusive attitudes towards the individual are beginning to have a certain critical capacity and a certain consensus. But, in turn, with regard to the bank's abuse of public administration, it seems to me that no one here has put a limit on it, either, does it? In fact, we want to propose a battery of legislative initiatives in this direction because we think that it is neither legitimate nor correct that the Government of Catalonia is supporting today a public debt derived from bank interests that triple, quadruple or fivefold market interests, and that the banking entities that are maintaining these interests are usury entities. They're leonin interests and they're bankers who are profiting from taxpayers' resources to burden their annual accounts and, therefore, from this perspective, we're fighting this issue. Actually, there's theoretically a certain consensus in this chamber. When we approved the statement of 9 November I remember that there was an annex in which it was proposed, precisely, that we should renegotiate with the bank – not renegotiate, as was the case with the ACA to push the interest of the debt, but precisely to bring it down at least in relation to the resident bank – and therefore this is a question on which we want to work, on which the general account we are discussing now, so tell him that he was in those growing moments, the question of the public debt, comparing 2012 with 2013 and, therefore, it is a question that in alarm and especially concerns us. That said, why do we say that the other aspect that we were particularly interested in from the general account was the private vote of the Pons syndic? Well, the Pons syndic – I think it's been said here and it's been said more than once, isn't it? – identify the issue of difficulties or danger in relation to forms of public-private collaboration. We think that the question of the ACA, the question of line 9, the question of the Segarra-Garrigues channel, the question of so many things that we have discussed here, of the Hospital Moisès Broggi, for example, so they have much to see with this, with the public-private collaboration, through the figure of the debt, ends up tripling, quadrupling, fivefolding the value of things and this is not done for a public interest, for the defense of the interests of the citizen but is done solely and exclusively in function of enriching the usual ones. And so, we also want to put it on the table to fight it. And we think that in this sense the report of the union is not sufficiently profound and sufficiently explicit at the time of denouncing that this model of public-private collaboration is, to say, laying out the arguments put forward by the syndicate Pons, therefore, what it does is to put in a situation of total exhaustion the model of public management that we have, that it is unfeasible and that it does precisely dependent and totally debunked. And last thing we want to put on the table. What does the anti-corruption prosecutor say about public-private collaboration? He tells us that public-private collaboration is one of the most important corruption focus, because it is precisely through the outsourcing of public services that one of the large camps subscribed to for criminal conduct linked to corruption is produced. Therefore, debt, public-private collaboration, corruption. In the end, a three-band equation is established that we want to challenge in its totality, we want to fight and we think in this sense that the report of the general account, therefore, does not address in sufficient way the completeness and the background work that it assigns to it. In short, we will abstain from today's vote precisely because we think that this report is insufficient and because we think that it is not up to us to explore all the limits of the need to combat corruption, the corruption that has led to public-private collaboration and the corruption, in short, of the deutocratic regime. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.27.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. The words of Mr Oriol Amat, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.28.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good day– went to greet the vice president; not the see, now –, deputies, deputies. I also greet the syndic Major, the syndics and the rest of the union's people. I wanted to start with a thank you to the union for the work done. There's no god in the syndicate's pocket, and so much good soon I can have more resources to go further than that still with the tax pocket. I'll split the intervention into two parts. At the first I will focus on the recommendations made by the union. I will not repeat fears that Members have already said before, for example, when Mr Espinosa was talking about the terms on which we presented this report today or about the duplicities that sometimes have with audits, bodies that are audited or by audits, let's say, or by intervention, so they also have the taxation of the union. I therefore very much agree that we must avoid duplication and very much agree that there must be more media. The report includes many recommendations, some are formal, others are substantive. It should be noted that there are better than 2012. Some have been corrected later, for example, one that came out, which was the compliment of the Law of Morosity data, so, now it is already complete, this recommendation, but still many remain. And it's true that most Members have pointed out that many of these recommendations, so, are repeated from previous years, huh? Now, I'd add an annotation here. These recommendations that are repeated from previous years, for example, are recommendations that there were when some of you were in the government on 2007, 2008, or the Socialist Group, too, and there are these recommendations. I was reading what you guys were saying those years of these recommendations, and it didn't seem like you were saying the same thing. I mean, they were worried about these recommendations today, and those years weren't that worried about them. Then, in summary, we would say that if recommendations have been improved in relation to the previous years, some have arranged later, we would say that we had progressed, I don't know if adequately, in terms of pedagogics. I think we're in the right direction, but I'm sure we need to go a lot faster to take these recommendations. Listening to the speeches of the Members of the rest of the parliamentary groups, there's a topic that puzzles me, huh? , which is the following: the majority of opposition parties are staggered by certain or many union recommendations. But it turns out that if you take the reports of the autonomous community taxing bodies that govern these same parties, there are the same recommendations or much more. So, when people from these parties talk about those reports, they don't scandal them so much. Then, the truth is, I think it's a little bit. [[the timer riu]] Hypocritical, huh? And, for that matter, forgive me for the expression, huh? [[Some applause.]] Then... Okay. I'm going to comment on a little anecdote that I lived a few months ago: I took a joint taxation report one day, I opened it up for a page where there was a recommendation and I took a member of..., I talked to a member of another party, and I said to him, "Listen, read this. What do you think? And the... I won't say if he was a man or a woman, so the person was shocked. And then I taught him the first page. It was a determined gathering where that party ruled. He changed his face. And then he started apologizing. Therefore, it seems that there is a double standard to measure, and here it does not exculate any party, with this comment – cap. This independent thing has a few advantages, huh? [[Give me the applause.]] Okay. Then, a comment about what the Spiny MP said about agreements with the CUP that increased the deficit... Well, we are talking about 221_million euros that stem from the increase in the deficit relief of 0.10. That's to say, those 221 million are coming out of there, that's to say, they don't increase the predicted deficit. Okay. I also want to take advantage of this intervention to put tax agencies in value. I think that everyone – and when you say everyone – would have to take more of us seriously, huh? They're public reports, they're stuck on websites. Sometimes there are scandals that come out of the public light a few years later than that report is stuck on the web. And this happens in Catalonia, but it also happens with the Court of Auditors, it happens in other autonomous communities. So, I think if we all did more of these tax reports, we'd be doing a lot better. Also, when I was talking about hypocrisy, a subject that also puzzles me..., and today Congresswoman García, for example, said she was shocked because... – and she will vote no – because there is no justification for the costs and returns of public servants. This must be done by all public administrations. Would you mind telling me some of them to do it? There are very few that do so. And the few that normally do it are because there are determined people who, beyond the parties in which they are, are people who worry about the issue of taxation and the costs and do so. Most public administrations don't do that. The same way that parties don't, for example, when they present..., it's a little different, but if we take the two-thousand items that have presented the different groups of opposition and the rest of the items, so, of the two-thousand items, if we quantify them all, the General would have to double the assumption. That, if I'm allowed to comment, sounds like a little childish to me, huh? , that a series of groups present 2,000 items, which means doubling the presupposition, and not to say where the money will come from, seems childish to me. The one who passes, that the infants, I think that... [[applause]] Infants don't have bad faith, so it's not childish, it's another type of adjective. [[Give me the applause.]] Well, to finish the first part, I'll refer to a pending assignment that we all have: we assess legality and accounting principles, it's what the union report says, but it lacks efficiency. We have a pending assignment that is the effectiveness assessment. What does that mean? So, maybe what we do is legal, sure we do, practically, right? But is that the best I could do? « Efficiency means: do we spend well? Do we get the most from available resources? If you allow me a simplification referring to public management – and it's a very telegrammatic simplification –: the boards usually don't have money for public management, or they don't have enough, or not all that would be hot; the lefts, they don't usually care about public management, they don't care about efficiency, huh? In general. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, we'd have to find an intermediate point between putting more money and demanding good public management: demanding efficiency of the money, huh? I'll take the second part. A conclusion from the union report notes the delicate financial situation of the Generalitat. The year 2013 saw a deficit of 3,000_millions, with a debt of about 40,000_millions; very important future exercise commitments for more than 97,000_millions of euros... We remember a little the mark in which it is soft, in which it is moved the year 2013. It was a year in which the economy remained in recession, remembering that GDP was going down. That means less recap. GDP did not recover until the year 2014, so it was years in which the economy went down. This increased the debt in an 11_per_cent; it is true, it increased the debt, but less than in previous years. A comment on what Mr Spinosa said about debt, he said: "We are the most indebted community. In economics, absolute data are not normally as important as relative data. When it comes to debt it's more relevant... I think, in accounts of talking about absolute quantity, talking about relative quantity, it's to say, comparing it to GDP. If we compare the public debt we have in Catalonia with GDP, we are not the most indebted community, we have two other communities that are more indebted than we are. That year it continued to adjust the expenditure. There was a 6_per_cent reduction in staff spending, a 9_per_cent reduction in loggers..., and here I agree that it was an unfair, but forced, expense reduction; if it had not been done, it would not have been possible to pay providers or public employees. It was an unfair reduction but it had to be done, if not, it would not have been possible to pay for suppliers and public employees. So... to hear a little bit of why this happened, let's remember -- a lot of you wouldn't agree, a lot of others, yeah, huh? – the unfair treatment that Rep Catalunya by part of the State. In reality, this unfair treatment in those years was not only Catalonia, it was also the rest of the regions. The State was very hard, especially hard with Catalonia. Remember when Catalonia was trying to increase the recovery by increasing some taxes, bank deposits, for example, so the State was running it because it couldn't collect. The State was very hard, especially with Catalonia and the joints, and, on the other hand, it was very loose with it itself, with the State itself. To remember them -ho simply, the year 2013 the State increased the entries a 3_per_cent and increased the expenses a 1_per_cent. On the other hand, the autonomous communities have reduced inputs... – the State has increased them, the autonomous communities have reduced them –; the State has continued to increase expenditure and, on the other hand, the autonomous communities have, together, to reduce expenditure by 3.7_per_cent. Therefore, the State was very lax with itself and, in change, very hard with Catalonia and the rest of the regions; especially with Catalonia, because it prohibited, among other measures, those that would have allowed it to recover more. The clippings were forced. They're all criticizing the detailing. It is worth remembering that some of the parties that criticize the retails, so where they ruled also retailed. Why don't they say the same thing they say here? Spanish in those years increased the tickets: VAT, IRPF, tobacco taxes, hydrocarbons, alcohol specialty, and it was practically all left, huh? Let us remember, for example, the subject of the tax on bank deposits, as I said a moment ago, therefore, the Constitutional Court, at the instigations of the People's Party, banned, blocked this measure. Deputy Ordeig is complaining about the sale of assets. What other option was there? What other option was there to maintain social spending if it wasn't to sell assets with a presumption that more than 70_per_cent was social spending? There's been a little talk about the FLA. Yesterday itself, an organism that has no mass of superiranist or Catalanist, which is Moody's, recommended changing it. Why do you recommend changing... until Moody's recommends changing the FLA? The FLA that year cost us 502_million euros of interest. Here the question we could also ask ourselves, we haven't talked about it again, is why Catalonia can't go to the markets? Why? Catalonia has the capacity to collect taxes more than envelopes for not having to retail..., the total retail sales were 6,000_million euros and that year we had a deficit of 3,000_million. So, if you hadn't retaliated, the deficit of those years would have been 9,000_million, from the year 2013, huh? So, well, you know that Catalonia has a fiscal deficit, according to the Generalitat, 16,000_millions, it also coincides with 16,000_millions with the method..., the commission that was appointed..., it created the government of President Zapatero with the methodology of cash flow, it coincides with 15,000-16,000 million per year. This very year the commission appointed for the Ministry of Hisenda said that this deficit is not 16,000, it was 8,000... Well, suppose it was 8,000, it was certain... Here we should talk about who pays, so the common expenses and many expenses that maybe in Catalonia we wouldn't like to be paid, right? So, if there wasn't this deficit, even though it was only 8,000, even though it was the 8,000, if there wasn't this deficit, Catalonia would have the open finance markets, wouldn't have the deficit, and wouldn't have to retail. Congresswoman Garcia is squirming because we have debts until 2040. And what do you think of the debt that we will pay until here I don't know how many decades of the Castor, of the Madrid radials, of the defense expenses that we will pay for decades? [[Greetings.]] What do you think? Then, I'm shocked by one thing as much as the other, but it's a lot different to pay debt related to the Beaver than to pay debt related to schools, jutjat buildings, etc. I don't think we're talking about the same thing. Another topic that I wanted to talk to about the adjustment there was in 2013 is the comments made by MP Àngels Martínez and MP Benet Salellas: why do they have hives in the private sector? Why? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I look at the countries...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.29.0	Please... - Please, please! Do me a favor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.30.0	They're scrambling a country that thinks it's worth admiring us - there. I would sort Denmark, for example. Denmark, one of the features it has is a lot of public-private collaboration. The countries that are worth it... I don't know which countries you think, I imagine are countries where there is a lot of public-private collaboration. Now, it's true that the private sector may be better regulated, huh? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But what I would say here is that we will surely live better if in the country we have a better private sector, a better public sector, more and better public sector, and more and better social economy. But I don't know why they have this kind of thing in the private sector, because if there's a public sector, it's because there's a private sector. From the private sector, taxes are levied [[some applause]] that they serve because there is a public sector: without a private sector there is no public sector, eh? Well, I'll get to the conclusions. First, we urge the government to respond to union recommendations, including private votes; if we can improve efficiency and taxation, then we will all win. Second, we have a very important pending assignment: we assess legality and accounting principles, but we do not assess efficiency. Completing the law does not guarantee that public management is the best we can achieve and that it is excellent. Third, the terms... arguing today 2013 is not acceptable, we have to sneak among all, and here Parliament we can do a lot. I, quarter, and I'm done, on public management issues a few years ago, we were a third country. I think today, with the best that's happened in the last few years, we're a country of second place, but we're still not first. To be the first we have to give more resources to the union and follow all, thread by thread, their recommendations. We don't have to apply a double shaver to measure – we don't have to apply a double shaver to measure – ours and the others, we all have to be more radical with transparency and good public management. Thank you very much. [[Greetings and soundings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.31.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Amat. Mr. Salellas, why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thirty seconds, but it's thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.32.0	Yeah, yeah, I'll be real quick. The truth is, for the first time I wanted to answer Mr. Amat, it was for his generic reference to the left, wasn't it? , to make it clear that when you talk about the left it refers to us, do not say – do not say – that we do not care about public management. We ask you to withdraw it, because our people at the gatherings work as much as possible to give each euro the maximum result to serve public interests, reducing wages, eliminating privileges and with much will and very long working days. Therefore, in respect of the political effort and commitment of all these people we have at the gatherings, we ask you to withdraw it. And second place, and on models, I would say I buy the Danish model, I buy the Danish model of school exclusively public, and I want to caricature us, Mr. Amat. We have no problems with the private sector; we have problems with the private sector that is dedicated to plundering the public sector...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.33.0	Mr. Salellas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.34.0	...and get rich...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.35.0	Mr. Salellas!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.36.0	...with the public sector. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.37.0	Mr. Salellas, it seems to me that Mr. Ordeig, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.38.0	For allusions, too, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.39.0	See if we can get it to be 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.40.0	Thirty seconds. See, Mr. Amat, with the esteem that we have for you: u, we are here taxing the administration of the Generalitat, not of the thousand gatherings that we have in Catalonia, that we will find cases of everything, and obviously..., or of the other communities. Therefore, he also comes here to make self-criticism, but also to be more rigorous in this aspect. Lefts and managed it progressive. He's... he's told us hypocrites, so... and he's told us that we don't care about management. This isn't just fake, it's not just demagogic, it's not just a damage to ideas, when we're here to manage the actions. And what's more hypocritical is saying that left-wing parties don't know how to rule, we don't know how to manage when there's a councilman who's from the Republican Left and when they have assumptions about the support of the UPC. So, a little bit more rigor, if it's not that what you want to say is that the counselor is doing left-hand politics and that the assumption that the UPC is giving him, from 2010 until now, is a assumption of Drets and a management and a government...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.41.0	That's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.42.0	...of dreets. Then I'd be right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.43.0	...of thirty-seconds...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.44.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.45.0	...I guess they're not the same for you as for me, huh? That's 30 seconds. [[Antonio Espinosa Cerrato asks to speak.]] See, Mr. Spiny.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.46.0	Also, Madam President, ask for the word for allusions. Let's see, Mr. Oriol Amat...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.47.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.48.0	...it is true that the increase in the deficit of one tenth is 200_million, which are going to go to the bottom, but it does not stop being deficit, and therefore debt, that you told me that it was not going to be deficit and debt. Of course it is; authorized, but deficit and debt. That's it. And then he said to me, "Man, we have to compare debt against GDP. Well, yes, but that's also a possible comparison. But another is in absolute values, and another is, for example, per capita, with which we are also at the head, per capita, in public debt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.49.0	Mrs. Martinez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.50.0	For two allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.51.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.52.0	But for two. The first is that, look, I, allergy, only have penicillin. Everything else, if it behaves well, allergy. And the second. It is hard for me to know how you, sometimes from this point on, say independence, question the credibility and coherence of policies. Credibility and consistency cost a lot to achieve, and you have allowed yourself, a lot of joy, even talking about hypocrisy. Listen, if you want to see if I know coherent and credible and not hypocritical, remember that the year 2008 was, with other people, who created Dempeus for Public Health, an organization in which there was also a person you and I thought very much, that was Fabia Estapé. Thank you very much. [[Esperanza García González and Oriol Amat and Salas ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.53.0	No, no, it's Mrs. Esperanza García. Mrs. García, do I ask for the word for allusions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.54.0	Yes, allusions; there are also contradictions... [[Pause.]] Mr. Amat, I must say that the State is not responsible for the markets having closed the doors to grant credit to the Generality; it is the morosity and mismanagement of the Generality that closes the doors of the market. The second element I'll tell you. Let's see if you realize that the lords who managed the Castor issue are the Socialist Party and not us. And three, contradictions: how is it possible that you pose as an example, and the leaders of the CUP, Denmark, which is a constitutional monarchy. Surprise! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.55.0	Mr. Amath. Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.56.0	No, I mean, apart from thanking all the Members' comments... [[and some applause]] I just wanted to tell Benet Salellas that these joints that he says they're concerned about efficiency, so I'd really like to know these practical things. What if it's like that? [[remorse of the voice]] Then, here in Parliament, I will ask thirty seconds to say: "I was right about Mr Benet Salellas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.57.0	After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the 2013 General Account Opinion of the Board of the Union of Accounts. If there is no objection, we shall take the joint vote on the two points of the opinion. The vote begins. The General Accounts for 2013_has been approved by 94 votes to 9, with 25 abstentions. [[Question to the Government on fiscal policy]] [[300-00123/11]] The aim of the agenda is to ask the Government about fiscal policy presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it, has the word Mr. Fernando de Páramo. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Thanks for going out in a hurry and quiet. [[Pause.]] Mr. De Paramo, when you're ready.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.58.0	Well, thank you, President. Mr Councillor, Members, Members..., Mr Junqueras, you yesterday, forgive me for saying so with this strongness, we lacked respect; we lacked respect for the chamber, we lacked respect for the whole opposition, because yesterday you got something that is not easy in politics, which is to agree with the whole opposition, because we were all opposition groups who alluded to Mr Vidal's subject, and you did not answer us. You responded with efforts from your department, with which..., with some of them we will agree, because not everything is wrong in politics; I am convinced that you will do something right. But, man, that's not answering, that's not answering and answering with other things, that's very old – that's very old – that's old politics. And you also said yesterday that we dictated the answer. Look, we didn't dictate the answer, we asked him. What then is the use of controlling the government? What's the use of a control session if you don't answer? What good is it if the president refuses to come to Parliament and you do not answer us? But, well, I think their silences speak for themselves and speak for themselves. You are pretending to leave Mr. Vidal's affair in an anecdote, to leave it in someone who was going around and that one day he came up with a brilliant idea. But, look, it's not so; Mr. Vidal's assertions have hurt him; they have hurt his project, and you know it; it's those skates that throw down the whole separatist story that you build and build every day. And you've been hurt because you, who's a smart guy, can't deny it, didn't answer yesterday, didn't answer, didn't answer any of your questions, none of them. And, look, Mr. Vidal is a Senator of Esquerra – well, now he's not because you've forced him to resign – he's a spokesman of Esquerra, he was a spokesman. He was a judge, too, but he was the trial judge, he was the judge that you promoted all over the world. He was no one in the process; on the contrary, he was one of the most authoritative voices of all his separatist challenge. And now you try to erase it from our minds, to erase Mr. Vidal as if he had never existed, as if he had never spoken in those acts of Esquerra. And it's that those acts were for three months, eleven conferences, social networks, tweets; it wasn't that one day someone could have a slip, but they threw themselves three months saying the same thing. I asked him yesterday; I'm going to try again, to see if there's luck today: but didn't anyone raise their hand in those acts? Were you in any of those acts of Mr. Vidal? Someone from his party said: "Listen, he is lying; he, who is there, is lying, that someone should take him away, is telling lies? No one? No one said anything? If those accusations had been made... For example, instead of an act of Esquerra, imagine yourself an act of Ciutadans. And I myself make those statements about your government. I think you'd turn me in, I think you'd turn me in the next day. But as someone from his party has done, so they do nothing. As you can see, there are a lot of questions, a lot of questions, and you don't answer any. Well, actually, he answers them all with his silence. And the truth is that I'm concerned about the..., not only Mr. Vidal's performances and statements, but you..., moreover, when the subject was already heated, Mr. Salvadó is on stage, which I also have to tell you that you have some party comrades who do you weak favors. Because Mr. Salvadó, who also didn't pass by, who is a member of his team, because he also delighted with phrases like..., well, that, as everyone suspects, they won't give us the database on a pen drive, which we have to cross one hundred and thirty sources of information. Statements, too, that you will understand that – you have been in the opposition and know it – awaken our doubts. And we have to ask you, we have to do our job; our job is to control the government. And yesterday I told you and you – you – took offense – took offense. There was a time when he offended me because I gave him examples of corruption, I gave him examples of cases of corruption. And you offended yourself, but you have to get used to it, because you are ruling with Convergence. And when you rule with Convergence, it is normal that you are asked from time to time for corruption. Do not get so exquisite; when you rule with one of the most corrupt parties in Catalonia's history it is normal for the opposition to say to you from time to time: « Cases of corruption of your government, because you are ruling with them. I already know that you have a strategy of going undercover, an intelligent strategy, of going undercover, of trying to make a surprise to Convergence, of taking all those votes, of saying some things here and others in Madrid, of being the good man in Madrid. But you already have your own scandal. You already have the Vidal case, which is your own scandal in Esquerra. And, look, in Catalan politics it's hard to get a virgin to the government – not to marriage, but to the government – and you, with this scandal of Mr Vidal, are not going to get it. But, look, the example of corruption was simply not for him to be offended, but because, at first, when there is a scandal in Catalonia, in Catalan politics, he always refuses at first. This is a custom we have seen in many other cases: 3 percent also refused, Palau also refused; everyone was very offended: "No, this does not exist, lie. And then the truths come to light. So, don't let it happen to you and that was... that's why I was talking to you yesterday about cases of corruption, not because you have them, but because of your government colleagues, that you be careful to deny everything because then the truths jump. And I review it chronologically. Look, in October 2013, there were already suspicions of the Cesicat, which had followed up journalists and developed profiles of activists on social networks; those suspicions were already there. Just before, in April 2013, our group, also with the People's Party, made a proposal to set up a commission of inquiry into cases of espionage. Do you know what happened? You remember because you were there. I wasn't, I wasn't a congressman; but you were. Do you know what happened? That you voted against, refused to have a committee of inquiry. Then, in December 2013, Albert Rivera, when he was chairman of the parliamentary group here in Parliament, warned the president, in this case President Artur Mas, that there was a report to create a Catalan CNI. You'll remember that too, because you were there. Well, well, they denied it, too. Everything is always denied, at first; it is a strategy... I have never ruled, we have not yet ruled in Catalonia, but I imagine that when you rule, you have to deny everything, at first, right? And then now, if that's true, then let's see what we do. Well, well, they denied it, too. And then Felipe Puig, in January 2014, came out and admitted the existence of the report on the CNI : "But, well, it has not been commissioned officially... We have already started..., after the denial, already begins that process of « let's try to build a communicative narrative to try to explain things. And then, finally, we come to Mr. Vidal, where we speak again of questionable data..., and doubtful origin. Look, this looks like a spy novel, because doing this whole chronological review seems like you guys have been playing spies for a while. And, in addition, you, who are sitting in that post of opposition leader, even if you are now sitting next to the government, put yourself in our place, do that exercise. Don't you think something smells bad? What's normal for us to ask you about these cases, doing that review? Then he'll get me to answer, and I'll be happy to hear it. But don't you think it's normal for the opposition to ask you about all this? Don't you think you need a better political strategy than saying no to everything? You must have advisors and you must be good. I think you should recommend: « Mr Junqueras, answer something. Something. Give us some fish, give us something. Because if you don't, we're gonna be asking you till the end of the day. I'm going to throw myself here asking you every day, until you give us an answer, because it's my job; for that they pay us the salary. Look, you know what's going on? That I believe that the Catalans have been spying on their hands; that's my opinion. And I tell him with all the facts that I've put on his table, and not only I say it, but also a fellow member of his party says it. And, look, spying on the opposition and other political parties is disgusting, it is somewhat disgusting; but spying on all Catalans is inadmissible. Look, the worst of all this is not just what you're doing, but you're also going transparent. You talk about that you are transparent, and you have the Transparency Councillor who is the least transparent in the history of Transparency Councillors. If even the Bureau had to protect a Member of ours because Mr Romeva... I know this isn't going with you, huh? And it's easy now to take advantage of him not being here, but I'll tell him too when he's here. Mr Romeva does not give information to Members, and he is the Transparency Adviser. Do you understand that the opposition is also asking Mr Romeva? Do you understand that this is normal and normal? Then, moreover, you have blocked commissions, in the Rajoy style in your time of absolute majority, when you do not want to be held accountable. They blocked the commissions of inquiry, Republican Left; no Convergence, we already know that they, therefore, logically that they investigate do not like them, but you too, Republican Left, blocked commissions of inquiry. They do not answer the questions posed to them by all the opposition in bloc, not only Ciutadans, I insist, parties that we are different but that ask the same thing. Look, I think this is already beginning to smell at the end of the cycle, you don't have an absolute majority, you don't even have a social majority – you know it – you go back to 9-N, and you also... you don't need to remember it, because you know it perfectly, because you sure remember it, but you said, "Once the plebiscite elections of 27 September are held, there's no point in a second referendum. That's what you said in a lucid attack... well, right now you're saying exactly the opposite. It's all right, huh? , in politics there are times when one says one thing and then says another; but you will have to explain it. Do you know what's going on? Which, look, you lost, you lost on September 27th. You lost the election. Look, I have very little to do with politics, but I've learned that it's more important to know how to lose in politics than how to win. And you've lost. But please don't waste any more time on all Catalans, don't waste any more time on us. And don't waste any more time on this opposition either and have the kindness, even out of political cordiality, to answer the questions that have been asked to you all day and during the interpellation that we will then have the opportunity...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.59.0	Sir De Paramo...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.60.0	...to keep talking.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.61.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.62.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.63.0	Thank you. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.64.0	Good morning, everybody. Madam President, it seems to me that you have confided in me, you have confided in me in my person and in my functions. In theory, you had to ask me a question about fiscal policy; you did not ask me about fiscal policy. [[Greetings.]] Re, not a tax policy question, not one – not one. And then he gave me a whole story, a whole story that... what do you have to see? Is that to say, a person's statements that they have to see with control to the government? Control to the government... listen, if you want to know what the government is doing, I'll explain it to you, and I explained it to you yesterday, and I explained it to you in all detail, and if I want to explain it again. And I love to explain it there, because we're so convinced that whatever we do we do very well, that every time they ask us, for us, it's a great opportunity to prove that we do very well again. And all of you recognized it: "There are things that you do very well, etcetera. So, if you want to control the government, I love to answer you about what we're doing to the government. Now, if you're going to give me a report, not today, but yesterday it started for Banca Catalana, let's just say, then you confided in me, because I'm the Economics and History advisor, I'm not the government chronicler. There's no charge, there's no government columnist's office writing the history of the governments of Catalonia. And I could give you my opinion on all these aspects, let's just say, but then I'd be failing my functions as an Economics and History advisor. You also made a barricaded shield yesterday, swept it all away. You sweep me away all the time and then you say to me: "And now you answer the questions; don't worry about it, for instance, because what you do is make a great report, it's already there. Where's the question? What's the question? And then I'm asking about things that have nothing to do with my skills in the present government, because I'm asking about things from other governments, from other times, or "Question..., gosh, I'm not asking: explain your opinion about what another government, some other advisors, some other councils... So, come on, I think this isn't the job. Now if you're... then, more so, in the open, right? And he says to me, "You're a smart guy and... what's next, right? "I'm sure you have some good advisors. Listen, it's just as if I'm ready or not ready, it's not people picking up – people picking up – because I'm not here on my condition either of a smart type or of a type that has good advisors. No, no, I'm here... and if I want to make it clear to you with a lot of taste. As long as you give me a very generic report, I can also answer it in the same voice, with this generic report. And another observation before that – I told you yesterday, didn't I? "If you want to dictate the answers; if you want to..." No, no, I demand that you answer me that yes, I accept this game, I accept it – I accept it –, you will see, I accept it. Only on one condition: I accept that you dictate the answers to me if you accept that I decide the questions. That's it, on equal terms. So every time I can decide the question you ask me, I accept that you... is that, if not, what game is this? So... And now, going back to the report, which I'm delighted to explain, what's my job here? What am I doing here? So the only reason I'm here for is because I'm convinced that my society, my country, in this society, in the Catalan society, of which you are also a part, would be much better if disposed of a lot better. And these things much better, I'm convinced they're the ones of a state. And, therefore, because I want our society, our citizens, you first, and the people that surround you, therefore, to have the best opportunities, to have guaranteed the equality of opportunity, to have guaranteed the economic development, the growth of their economy, etcetera, as I am convinced that to do this we need the tools of a state and, therefore, of a new republic, I am here to do this. It's here. To do this we need many tools, of course, and we need majority and etcetera; sure – sure, sure. And I'm convinced that most of us already have it, and I'm willing to test it every time you need it. Clearly, because I'm a democrat, because before I'm an independentist I'm a convinced democrat. So if you ever say to me: "Listen, you – who is it, eh? – « They have made a crime, I will be the first to condemn it. Fixed's one thing: there's a senator who's resigned from his charge not because he's committed no crime, just because he's explained himself badly, because he's explained something he wasn't. [[Widow's remorse.]] How many of you...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Listen, as simple as that: how many of you...? I know they don't like to hear it, because this puts them before a look in which you don't want to see. How many of you, for things like this, for statements of any type or for actions, have resigned from their functions? How many? Every day news comes out... You say: « You govern with Convergence. And you invest Mr. Rajoy of the People's Party. [[Greetings.]] Listen, listen to one thing – listen to one thing. Did I not invest in Mr. Rajoy? No, no, And do you hear that every day news is being sent to the press about corruption cases that affect the People's Party? Is that so? So, listen, every one of them... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.65.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.66.0	You've invested the Lord... let's answer it, I don't interrupt it when you speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.67.0	... don't do dialy, huh? This isn't a dialect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.68.0	So, listen, you take on your responsibilities. If you can tell me, "Listen, there's been such a crime, I'm the first to condemn it, and I'll help you, because before you independenceist soc democrat, and before you democracy soc good person. So, listen, if there's a crime, I'll be the first to help him correct it, chase it, punish it. Now, if it's not there, what do I want to say, if it's not there? So, it's not there. It's just that if I told him anything else he'd be lying to him. You don't want me to lie to him? Well, that's it. So, what does the government do around here...? If I've understood the question correctly, why do you refer to Mr. Felipe Puig, Mr...., whatever it is, I understand it's not my job to answer them, let's just say it, huh? If you can prove that Mr. Felipe Puig or whoever did something wrong, I insist, I will be the first to help him. Do I hear that I have taken on some responsibilities to the Economics Council which include some competitions, for example, over some public undertakings, and hear that some of these public undertakings have been replaced by some of those responsible? Is that so? Hey, I'm doing my job? So, listen, if I do it right – it's good that you recognize it, I understand that you have recognized it, that I do it right –, listen, let's help us. If you know that someone has committed some crime, I love to help you, delighted – delighted. If you want, I will now explain to you what the Government of Catalonia is doing with tax data, which I understand was one of the concerns that you pointed out yesterday. What the Government of Catalonia does is manage many years ago, thirty years ago, tax data. And, as I explained to you yesterday, these tax data were primarily very timely and generally very simple. With the passage of time we have been managing each time more complex and more numerous data. Until recently, most of these complex data were made up of individuals who had a natural legal character and who referred to non-periodic taxes, ad hoc taxes, such as those on donations, inheritances, documented legal acts or transfers of assets. Now we are in a new context, in which we begin to manage periodic taxes, taxes that affect large censuses, so that they are large, such as the tax that will refer to sugar beakers or the tax that will refer to vehicle contamination. This – not only this, but also this – requires changes in the management and instruments of the tax agency. Yes, of course. And I'm convinced that you have to agree on this. And, therefore, it is proceeding to the gradual replacement of the program that was in force, of the computer program that was in force until this moment, that is the program G@udí, that already has a_fifteen years and that, therefore, it begins to be technologically obsolete, for a new program, that is e-SPRIU, a program that is able to manage these taxes that have a periodic character and that have a character of great hundred. That's what we do. And at the same time we do many other things, such as strengthening the staff working in the tax agency to make it more effective, or ensuring the deployment of the offices in which we will serve the citizens of Catalonia, among which, fifteen new offices, an already inaugurated one that gives coverage to Badalona, Santa Coloma de Gramenet, Sant Adrià... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I am sure she is interested, the one I explain to her, more than the one who explains to her her chairwoman of parliamentary groups. Well, I hope; I don't know. [[Rialles.]] I hope they're done, huh? Fire – fire, fire. [[Rialles.]] Fire – fire, fire. I understand you were listening to me, I hope. Therefore, the deployment of these offices, fifteen offices, one of which has already been deployed, which gives coverage to Badalona, Santa Coloma de Gramenet, Sant Adrià, Barcelona north; fourteen more than they will be deployed before 1 September, more the offices shared with other administrations, which I understand you also agree with, because this contributes..., we become providers of public administrations, or of the Catalan Transit Service. Therefore, let us deploy all these measures at once. And I think we're doing it with a huge uncertainty. And if any of these measures don't look good, I'm willing, happy to discuss them with you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.69.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. Then there's the word De Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.70.0	By the way, you look like a smart guy to me, too, huh? [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.71.0	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Junqueras, do you think we're fools? [[Rialles.]] Honestly, huh? I'm saying it because you use your style, your pride... but do you think we're fools? I'm really telling you, huh? I'm not telling you now about theater, as you did before when I was commenting on a matter with my partner. Do you really think we're fools? Ask yourself that question. I asked him five questions yesterday; do I have to repeat them again today? Do you have no memory? I repeat, I am delighted with the life of repeating them. Did Mr. Vidal lie, yes or no? Are you going to use the data obtained for your independence purposes, yes or no? I say this because, as you said you are going to help me, you just said you are going to help me, so I count on your support for the Vidal Committee of Inquiry. I count on your support. You just said it now. [[applause]] He's going to help us. "If there is a crime I will help you," you said. Well, to know if there's a crime first we have to investigate, we're not going to make judges, we have to investigate first. Well, we want to investigate. I thank him for the support he is going to give us, as he said right now in Parliament, to this committee of inquiry. I've asked him a lot of questions. I said to him, "Why didn't you report Mr. Vidal? I told you, I asked you too... about the case of Felipe Puig, yes, of course, you supported Felipe Puig. You, who talk so much about support. Yes, we have supported the launch of the Government of Spain and I do not deny that, on the contrary, it would be more necessary, if it were for you we would still be in elections and elections, less bad that we have supported a government. But you govern with Convergence, you sit next to Convergence, you share with Convergence government. Don't be mistaken, we haven't sold ourselves for a chair, Mr. Junqueras, we haven't. [[Greetings.]] And then the subject of the questions. We are accustomed to democracy, Mr Junqueras. You say you're a Democrat before you're an independentist. I don't know if it's the other way around... the terms, but in any case, democracy is used to it. The opposition will ask you questions and you do not choose them, the questions, the opposition chooses them. And you..., it would be good – that's already a tip, if you want to take it from me, and if you don't then nothing – to answer from time to time something, huh? Don't stress yourself too much in the answers either, but answer us something – something – once; of ten questions I asked you yesterday..., I counted eight more than the two I did today..., answer me at least one. Because you do not answer to the opposition and come here to the atrium..., makes a speech of a tremendous parliamentary pride. I've tried to have a good tone with you throughout my intervention, but we all know how to play bad, we all know how to play that, and so do we. And then you dedicate yourself – in your five_minutes of reply – to taking our hair literally, Mr. Junqueras, which is very serious what has happened with Mr. Vidal. That you just said you resigned because you haven't explained yourself well... I'm sorry, because you've explained yourself wrong and that in our party you've never resigned a politician because you've explained yourself wrong. It's just that politicians don't quit because they're wrongly explained. Politicians resign because they lie, or politicians resign, in their case, because they tell the truth; but not because they have been misexplained. I know you're very uncomfortable with these questions. He is very uncomfortable, because, if not, he would answer me; and he has not answered me any questions, and when he finishes my questioning he tells me that he does not answer me because I have not asked him. But if it's less than 24 hours ago, I've asked you all the questions again. I repeat them again, do you want me to repeat them again? Because maybe you haven't heard them either this time. If you want to help me, I would like to thank you on behalf of our entire parliamentary group, because your help is very useful, and I would therefore be delighted if you would support us in this committee of inquiry. Don't block, as you've done before, because I used to talk about a timeline because you're not new, you've been sitting there for a while, and that's why I asked you about other years. And you have always blocked – blocked, blocked – commissions of inquiry. I'm glad you rectified and said you're going to help us. And then, yeah, something too brief to finish. I know, Mr Junqueras, before it was very easy, because you were in the opposition and now you are in the government; then Convergence had no opposition. You're the cabbage of every government. But now the opposition is Ciutadans de Catalunya, Citizens. So, with Citizens you ask the government, you ask, you inquire, you investigate, you investigate, because that's what an opposition does. You didn't do it, it's okay, huh? , is his..., is in full right not to do so, we have already seen that after he has finished as vice president of the government, each chooses his strategy and his political career. To us, you will not see us as President of Mr Puigdemont's Government, but what we do ask of you as leaders of the opposition and I believe that also, if I may my colleagues, as other opposition parties asked you yesterday, is to answer the questions. Don't hide, face it, you are very brave – very brave – to talk about the 9-N, Brexits, to declare independence, but to give face in Parliament and answer the questions to you are left..., and you forget the courage at home. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.72.0	Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. The Deputy President of the Government then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.73.0	Okay. I'll go back to obviating references of personal character respects bravery, respects... because it seems to me that they're not close, let's just say it. You have all the right to judge me as you think you should and..., all the right, too, to obviate your considerations of personal character, because it seems to me that they do not contribute to the political debate that we should have, that is the political debate about which work does the Economics Council, the Catalonia Tax Agency, etc. I insist, if you want to talk about facts, if you want to talk about what we're doing, what we're doing, how we're developing it, I'm delighted. Now, I'm not gonna sit down and argue with you - another time, huh? – If I look like a smart guy, if I have good advisors or not, if the... It's the same as me, can you hear that I feel the same way about whether you think I'm brave or not? No, no, it's a little irrelevant, let's just say it. Anyway, listen, when the day comes to prove... I don't know, so each one will be valued for the facts, won't it? That's it. No, no, I'm not interested in your personal opinion. It's here. All right. If you want it, I insist, huh? It's what the tax agency does. I think I explained it. And I can explain it again, for the first time, let's just say it. You're asking... [[Some applause and fondness.]] Well, if he doesn't care, then why do I have a control session with the government, let's just say? You're asking... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Listen, these gestures are on the spot...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.74.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.75.0	...if Ispot's getting away with it? Mr. Castel, are these gestures 'lspot getting away with? And if I do the same thing, now? What would we gain from all the folds? No, no... can't they be a little... a little more relaxed, quiet? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right. [[Some applause.]] His companion asked me... – I pointed out two concrete questions –, he told me if Mr. Vidal lied. I've already explained it: Mr. Vidal explained things that do not correspond absolutely with reality. It's here. And then you asked me if we could get the data we got. The data we get in the normal use, in the usual use of our functions, it is obvious that we serve them. And what do we serve them for? To chase the fraud. And, if not, the past year and the previous year would not have raised 170_million euros of tax fraud, so... Now, if you want to be the judge, the prosecutor, you've already decided the penalty, etc., I think it's functions that do not correspond to you. And he'll understand that I have to say, it's not his job. You're not the prosecutor, you're not the judge, etc. At the disposal, another time, to explain to him every time that he weighs the work that we do to the tax agency. If you want, I invite you to come because I can meet you in person. If you want, let's go see the first office opened in this new deployment. The one who... listen, the one who... me, loves to accompany you and have the best relationship. You told me you tried to be friendly with me. Me too. Listen, from all the cordiality of the world, if you want, one day, we visit your tax agency. If you want to visit the new office. All the cordiality of the world – all the cordiality of the world – absolutely all. And all the conviction that the work we do is all the work we have to do and the way we have to do it. It's here. And that's what we'll keep doing. And you can see that he's squirming before that, you can see that he's angry before that, or his Castel company can keep making gestures behind him, but... after we've done all this, we'll be back at the end of the street, which is that we're doing the work that we're getting close to and doing well. It's here. And if you have any doubts, listen, you have the possibility... if you are aware that there is a crime... finally, report it. But what he won't do is we tell him he's right about something he doesn't have, because, I insist, we're lying to him and I don't want to lie to you, to your whole group, to the citizens who vote and to the citizens of Catalonia. Like I don't want to lie, I can't give him the reason, no way. You are wrong and raise questions that have nothing to do with the control of the government's work. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.76.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Interview with the Government on the criteria for assessing work costs]] [[300-00124/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the criteria for assessing work losses, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. To expose it has the word Mr. Marc Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.77.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Vice President... Counselor Comín, the last December you compared to explain to us the measures that you had begun to take in relation to the inn at the margin of the mechanism to detect cases of labor contingencies that could pass through our health system as common contingencies, with the personal, economic costs that this supposes. And in this same appearance, you announced that the agreement between INSS and ICAM was being renegotiated, and that you would not accept that in the new agreement, economic criteria would prevail at the time of evaluating the job losses. So, look, this inquiry and the subsequent motion intend to help you fulfill your promise, I understand. Interpret, therefore, this inquiry as a continuation of that appearance and the motion on occupational safety that originated it, with the aim of deepening in the best of the prevention of health in the work, in the attendance when a working person is sick and in the strictly medical criteria that must prevail at the time of deciding whether to continue working, with the certainty of not harming his or her health or that of those who exploit him or her. In summary, to be able to heal without, recover with dignity and return to work in safe conditions. And I let 'em have a little introduction telling them precisely about this, about the por. Look, if any of the consequences of the later labor reforms have not been reduced, as I said and explained, but that objective has not confessed to producing an internal devaluation of the economy which, as it cannot be done over the currency because we have no control, has affected the costs of the labour market. And the direct consequence, therefore, has been a huge wage reduction. And in order to be able to produce this reduction of the labor market it is necessary to introduce measures that produce another objective, not confessed, but clearly, that it was the danger of losing the job. Why do I explain all this to him? So, because for..., the people who have to lose work can take anything at any price, and the people who have to lose work can work in unthinkable conditions a few years ago, when we won by recovering the conditions that we had previously had. And to put it, moreover, also forces us to work without having the certainty that the work neither malalts, nor kills, and without having the conviction that if you malalt you will have the right to heal well, nor the certainty that preventive policies work to ensure that when the time comes to return to work you can do it in safe conditions. This certainly, which we should have in an advanced society, has jumped through the air with some elements of what we would legally say 'of necessary collaboration in this strategy of por. I am talking about the legal reforms that have given a great deal of power over work safety to the mutual workers, which are taking back from public management, or also from economic criteria and not at the time of maintaining or withdrawing a temporary incapacity for evaluation bodies. Thus we find ourselves with measures such as the Royal Decree 625/2014, which holds more power to the mutuals, giving them greater economic and medical control in the lower proceedings, and the possibility that these mutuals may have this, criteria that are not at the time of extinguishing the performance with the consequence that the workers can return to work still ill, increasing to what has come to say the working present and putting under suspicion the workers to whom they indirectly suppress fraudulent conduct at the time of malalignment. Perhaps you will tell me that we do not have the powers to modify these regulations, which are state-owned, but we do have the powers to examine, for example, the causes of this 'presentism', and, consequently, to be able to control and demand from each other the fair performance with medieval criteria with the salvation of the working person as the center of his activity; hence, we have it. And with the same characteristics, and practically the consequences, it appears that the fame agreed between Social Security, which is the one who pays the benefits for temporary incapacity, and the Català Institute for Medical Evaluations, which is the body in which the inspection functions of these situations are delegated, and which has a contingencies, you know, highly perverse as the Generality has more money in compensation for doing this job as the highest of temporary incapacity does, because they are benefits money that has been paid to INSS. It is to say that with this convenient the Generality collects from the State because its doctors do the police of salvation, but in order to be able to get more money they often have to do it on the margin or from the salvation of the workers, sending to work people who are sick or denying invalids to people who gather the characteristics to hold them. I am sure that you will not deny me the economic criteria of the agreement, because it was you who publicly acknowledged that a "part of these entries contravenes the welfare functions with economic criteria, and who wants to put practices back together," said you, "where the doctors are required to agree that they will attempt to lower and shorter ones without taking into account only medical, clinical and care criteria. I have heard this from an interview published in the media on December 15th, but it was also said in some other way in the appearance that I made. But you know that they are facts that have been systematically denied by previous bodies of the same ICAM, despite the insistence of collectors such as PAICAM or workers' unions that have denounced concrete cases. And I would like you to make a clear and forceful explanation in this inquiry. If these are the facts and these have been the actions, but there has been denial and blindness, we don't just need to change it, but we need to clarify responsibilities. And that, counselor, for the consequences it has on the salvation of the people, if they are sabudic consequences, would be walking perilously over the ratta of a highly reprehensible practice and of a largely non-existent ethics. You will have to assure us that they are absolutely strict with the right medicine of the incapacitated for malaise, because behind every high injustice can be found a real drama. Or is it not, that of a person who, while having a disease, is forced to return to his work under threat of seeing 'accommodated by a surviving ineptitude, because vigilance of salvation says that he is not fit to work? And in a context of crisis and at the same time as the present, what alternative do the workers and the workers have as it is not the return to the place of work, even though the costs of salvation, even though it is possible to make their pathology worse, obviously with subsequent psychological effects? And, besides, what a consequence it has for the same companies, that see as from the medical court he returns as healthy people who are not recovered. And you know that in cases of low medicine, what they say is the cure or better that allows the usual job, created for the faculty of the ICAM, to last a long time, has the immediate effect of returning to the place of work. And if the worker does not reintegrate himself into work, the worker will eventually bear what is called a heavy contract failure, and may, at all events, take him with no right to compensation and no more than the performance of the job. And even more, your family meth won't be able to prescribe a new medico because during six months the head meths have a lot of problems giving them nines, because these new medico basses have to be validated and controlled by the medical court. And, in that, you could do something about it. And we are no longer talking about another issue in which you too should intervene, which is mistrust of the very medical staff of our system of salvation. So different is the criteria of the meths that they have previously considered the need to downgrade to the 131,307 temporary disabilities that the ICAM assessed in 2015 with the criteria of this court, which in 67_percent of the cases considered to revoke the incapacity? Did you know that in 2008 only 27.39 of the total requests against this 67 were rejected? Or in permanent disabilities, where the percentage of cases in which the ICAM considered revoking them was practically 45_per_cent? And how should we interpret that ICAM each time higher medical gifts faster: from 12.7 days of average annual discharge per employee from 2007 to the current nine days of average? Do we cure ourselves before for an adventure of medicine or magic or are we in the service of production before work for the sake of the free market? This is a question that also involves a political decision, counselor, because it will affect concrete policies in relation to the criteria with which ICAM acts. It is clear, Counselor, that if the criteria are not changed to carry out medical assessments, in the health system, but also in the product, there are repercussions. And short-term repercussions, which are already beginning to see: for example, for the increase in medical absenteeism due to relapses, or the increase in occupational accidents which, unfortunately, have occurred systematically in later months. And a higher health cost and also a higher cost for the same businesses. Therefore, we defended that caldrien changes granted and changes discussed with social agents, participated for the plataforms of users. Why? So, to guarantee an ICAM that is useful, that is social and that is sustainable. And this is what we want to propose, this and mutual control – this, and mutual control. We know that there are elements that depend on the State, no problem, but you know that things can be done about the health of workers and workers. And I know that because you yourself didn't start doing it, and I recognize it. I recognize that the Government has made a political gesture with ICAM on the basis of the change of organizational dependence, or with the termination of the previous Deputy Director, or with the expressed intention to introduce changes in the control of the under-declaration, and to modify the agreement of ICAM, okay, but we consider that this is not consolidated and that much remains to be done. And that's what I'm going to try to describe in the replica. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.78.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.79.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to you all, MPs, MPs. Mr Vidal, I, on the way in, thank you for your cooperation, it seems to me that you are indisputable, in a completely honest way, and therefore that we continue to build better together, in this dialectic between Government and opposition that you do not have to seek only reciprocal wear, but sometimes you can also seek joint construction. It seems to me that we do the citizen a favor when we are able to set up the government-opposition relationship in those terms, honestly. And with you, then, we often get out of it; sometimes it's not easy. And I believe that indeed, with ICAM there has been, from the principles of this legislature, a willingness to approach it as a camp in which reforms are taking place. But I think he's good, with the reforms, precisely because he's consolidating, doing them with the necessary prudence, with the necessary perseverance. The stairs are booming out of step, and I think that's the way you're doing the path with more security. And, therefore, effectively, we made the change of organic dependence, first change. Then there was a change in the management team, in the subdirectory responsible for ICAM. And I must say that my confidence in the current ICAM managers, both the current Deputy Director in charge of ICAM, as the Director General, Dr. Neus Rams..., confidence, I say, in their ability to build the ICAM from this dialog with the agents involved is total – it is total. Because one of the tasks that I have done to them and that they are taking on the most energy is precisely this ability to open the ICAM to the dialog of all interested parties, and better organizational, and to reflect on the background. Therefore, I want to begin by thanking the work being done, Dr. Rams and Dr. Lydia Padro and all their team at these moments. And I did not find it inconvenient to admit a criticism that was historically made to the agreement of ICAM with the National Institute of Social Security from social movements. Because, listen, it will proceed from one's point of view, but if criticism is objectively certain, then it is objectively certain. And I actually believe that there is a part of the objects that are defined to the annex to the convention that can be identified as objects, which you said, economics. I think that's it. What happens is that it's also important that we measure it in its fair measure. What are we talking about? So, we're talking about that distance 2.b of the annex, in which in the portion of expenditure rationalization objectives, so, effectively, as with other indicators, the indicator on incidence, the indicator on prevalence, the indicator of IT days per affiliate. We're talking about this. When we talk about "economic criteria, you probably already know, you don't have to clarify it, but I want you to know what the Health Adviser refers to when he says: "There are economic criteria in the agreement of ICAM. We're talking about this; we're talking about 2.b.1, 2.b.2 and 2.b.3. Why am I saying that? Because this is a total of 10_percent of the set of objectives on which the settlement of the agreement is based. In this liquidation of 55_millions of year 15, for example, only 10_percent of the objects have this natural economicist. It is very easy to review, the annex, look at all the objectives, one by one, and say: "The economic objectives are these three. And the head of others. The others are better objectives of the management process, which do not affect the criteria on which the doctor gives or stops donating temporary incapacity. That's the first one. Next. Have we fulfilled these objectives? Still being there, on the understanding that it was signed between the two parts, have we complemented them since the ICAM? The answer is no. Practically almost absolute... ; a lot, no, say so. It's not an absolute no, if he wants to, but it's an almost absolute no. Incidence criteria. Entrances linked to this criterion year 14 – which is of the two years of which we have the fetal liquidation, the two most recent, 14 and 15 –: 0_per_cent; because it did not complete. Incidence criteria related to year 15: 0_per_cent. Entries related to criterion 2.b.3, that of the middle of IT days per affiliate, year 14: 0_per_cent; degree of compliment: 0_per_cent. Level of compliment of year 15, of this criteria: 0_per_cent. The prevailing one there was a degree of compliment of 14_per_cent. That is, it could be completed up to 100_per_cent the object, which was the reduction of a 2_per_cent over the Spanish medium; a 14_per_cent of this 2_per_cent, and year 15, a 21_per_cent has been completed. That's why it's true, and that's why I think we need to clarify, that there's been no denial of a practice on the part of the previous teams... We've made changes: we've made functional adscript changes, we've made changes on the team... in the direction of ICAM. But this does not mean that when it was said that these criteria were not being denied a reality and a practice. It was a way, perhaps not very precise; as I am not the one who formulated it in these terms, I am now arriving and I need it. What is meant is: "Should you listen, these criteria that are in the appropriate written, the ICAM, have not fulfilled them. If there is any..., this part of the agreement that we could say economic criteria, these criteria, the stated objectives, the ICAM did not complete them. And that's why the part of the liquidation that would have been derived from these criteria didn't come up. So, you've been working under economic criteria at ICAM? It seems that no, insofar as the criteria that mark the objective have been ignored by ICAM, and therefore the liquidation does not provide a euro on the basis of the incidence criteria or on the basis of criterion 2.b.3. Only to clarify the complaint that is made, that I also understand, but I think it is a complaint that is not correct, that it is recognized that there was a practice that is not recognized, and that I have been the one that, now, saying that there are economic criteria, somehow I am contradicting the statements of previous officials. It's not complete, these criteria. Now, what we do when the time comes up to do it, which is when the time comes up to the renewal of the convention, which is for something a multiannual convention..., and when the renewal of the convention comes up, we do what I think is done, which is to demand that these criteria be eliminated. And, look, it's an act..., you said "valence." Miri, I don't know. But it doesn't seem to me to be a heroic act either; for a reason, because it seems to me that there is almost, almost, I will say it..., I don't know if legally now I will be strict enough, but I will tell you that there is almost a legal obligation to demand the withdrawal of these criteria from the proper agreement, because there is a judgment of the National Hearing, of the Administrative Court of the year 13, which clearly says that these criteria go against the Spanish Constitution. The judgment states that "the action of the caregiver–forgive him that he read in castle–" must be governed by taking into account the state of the patient's health, adopting his decisions under objective and scientific criteria which, however, would be affected if certain quantitative indices are established, as in the present case – it refers to these economic criteria – "which would affect the right to health, recognized in article 43 of the Constitution. He considers: "While it is legitimate to set strategic objectives that determined the performance during a given exercise of the officials to whom they are directed, in no case can these objectives be configured according to the decisions to be taken by the medical inspectors, in order to maintain or not situations of temporary disability. Therefore, any government that has a minimum of respect – fixed as I will say now – for the National Hearing's Administrative Board of Contents should immediately withdraw these objectives from the annex. And that's why I have absolute conviction... I don't see any other scenes that don't agree with the Government of the State, the National Institute of Social Security, accepting the request made by the Generality to withdraw these objectives, because I don't see the possibility of the National Institute of Social Security facing the jurisprudence of the National Court. Therefore, I have the peace of mind to know that the Government of the State will meet our requirements.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.80.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Marc Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.81.0	Yes, thank you, President. With regard precisely to this later than you have just said, the assumptions of this year are still foreseen entries for this economicist criterion. Therefore, if it is true... – well, if it is true..., what you have just read is clear that it is true – if you authorize a sentence, act tomorrow – act tomorrow – in obedience to the National Audience, and if not, denounce, if please, the right; but be strict. Because, of course, you ask for caution and perseverance, indeed, and so much in the changes that must be made. But, listen to me, energy; energy and change, and urgency, because it's because the people emalteix, they continue emaltint, they continue to work malalta, they continue to lose work because of a bad assessment of their state of health. And I understand that you defend ICAM; listen to me, I also defend, I also defend ICAM, but another ICAM, an ICAM that respects patients better, and an ICAM in which, in the end, the only one to decide is whether the people, for their salvation, can work or cannot work, but for their salvation, not for other questions. Therefore, in this I think we must be absolutely strong. Because the functioning of the ICAM leaves much to be desired. Listen'm, lack of information, for example. At the end of the medical visit, the patient cannot obtain any information because the report is not available and must request it at the end of twenty-four hours; or the mutual worker is in charge of making the communication procedures without having legal competence to do so when the ICAM is to do so; or the ICAM does not accept the documentation that the worker carries when he has the obligation to accept it to incorporate it into his expedient; or it is not, systemically, allowed to access the consultation that is carried out in the ICAM, incompleting the patient's rights, and what is harder, than we have already explained: the dispatch of the high medicine without the fact that the worker is recovered from everything, causing situations, you know, that it is difficult to do so. And as they do not allow the development of the usual work, they have provoked, in concrete cases, accompaniments of the person of his place of work, so that he gave it before the ineptitude survived, which is accompaniment, moreover, with the object of labor reform. All of these examples and others that we could find are that they imply a heavy violation of the rights of ICAM users, that they are mostly workers and workers in a situation of feverish speciality, that places them in a very difficult defense _mark and that you should not allow it. Look, we'll propose changes that you can make, and that you don't get the assumption, but that you'll improve justice in health care. For example, with regard to evaluation functions, I would say for example: the function of the ICAM evaluation should be refocused on the ability to work. In other words, it would have to be ensured that the ICAM evaluates the work ability taking into account only two things: the working conditions and the state of health. That's all. And this orientation, what would it require? For example, that ICAM does a coordinated job with the prevention services, the labor authority, the occupational safety units, that it should provide information on the working conditions to which that person is to be incorporated, and have more time and better means, logically, the professionals that must do it. Or we should look at re-entry as a process and not as an administrative act. Therefore, ICAM should be able to facilitate and establish recommendations that allow the return to work in the best conditions with proposals for action, for example, to companies, because high medicine is not a finalist concept, it is a process of progressive recovery. And with regard to the difficult situation of the sub-register of pathology that we spoke to the previous motion, we believe that the ICAM should be one of the devices that we can activate in order to monitor and prove of offices, to all its interventions, the origin of the professional damage, and to straighten the contingencies there where it touches, and an element of justice to avoid defencelessness. Listen to me, the validations of the medical downloads during the one hundred and forty days after the ICAM had a discharge should be eliminated; they should be eliminated because they have no use, first, and assume a right-hand search and a clear mistrust of what the fan does. And lastly, it seems obvious to us that as the very important aspect would have to redefine the entire patient's right-hand side to place people in the center. It may be recalled that the former Government unilaterally changed aspects of this letter of rights and deures, detailing the rights of citizens and of the patients I believe should be returned immediately. For example, the fact of limiting the right to be accompanied, not giving the doctor's report of the doctor's visit, does not cover notifications and citations by the ICAM. And it is clear, Counselor, that it is necessary to review the criteria that are being used to carry out medical assessments, because they are giving medical aids to people who are not on condition to carry out their work because of their state of health. And that, that puts at stake the fair justice of our health care system, counselor. It's up to you. It's up to you. We will ask the Government to reorient this body with this social vision, with this useful vision and with this sustainable vision, and, more importantly, with the involvement of those involved, who have been struggling for some time to do so. I hope that, in this sense, we can agree. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.82.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidal. The dotze point of the order of the day is: inquiry to the government... forgive, forgive, counselor. The line is missing. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.83.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Vidal, I have to tell you that we agree on a lot of things, huh? No, listen, I hope this isn't bad news for you, because the most important thing... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, we're making them—we're making them—and you're getting the paper to say, "Wait faster! Make more! Okay, if it's okay – it's okay – it seems okay to me – it looks okay. But it is clear that the main issue here is to institute things and ensure things from a normal point of view in such a way that it is clear that the criteria are strictly medical. But you also know that medicine is a fairly accurate science, but it's not an exact science at all – medicine is a fairly accurate science, but it's not accurate at all, huh? Therefore, there will still be people who disagree with some of the resolutions that will be made by the ICAM doctors, there will be, and that is why the ability to solve it has them and not another, it is the meths to which it touches, from the diversity of options that there is always before one case, for much of it is a case of a pathology, there follows a diversity of options, to which it touches, using strictly medical criteria, to solve. Now, said that, we made a motion and we agreed, if I hardly remember, on the Committee on Health and Safety of Parliament, and where it seems to me that it was voted, at last, I don't know if it was now – I say as a memory – for the unanimousness of all parliamentary groups or for a large majority of parliamentary groups. Now you've worked a lot harder, and now you come up with a much more concrete, much more specific battery of proposals. Magnificent – magnificent – because I believe that what is to be done is to open... We have been working, we are the ones who have the responsibility to do it; now it shows this interest on the part of parliamentary groups to enter into more concrete questions: we open a dialog space in the March of Parliament. This motion subsequent to the inquiry will be a magnificent occasion to discuss. We don't have to lock all the work into a young man; we now open a process of dialog about this, just like we have to open all the tables that are already open and can be consolidated as much as we want, all the tables that convince civil society to discuss these same questions. And we'll do it, all right, I think the step we're taking today is to take the interest of the government to be very active in these dialects, to be with parliamentary groups, to be with entities on all these issues. But you also said that you made some acclaim about what you said: "Political will is lacking. No, listen, the political will is all that we've decided because we wanted to propose the removal of these clauses for the first time is this government, you didn't ask for it, that's what we did because we thought we should do it. The functional sign-up change we made, the change in the direction we made. We're wearing a year, and the changes are going to be fine, and the day you govern, I'm sure you'll agree that the changes are going to be fine, because, if not, they're not consolidated. You say: "Denunciate, put more energy, denounce the agreement. But what's the point that I want to report, if the deal is over, if the deal is over, if exactly what we're in the negotiation of the new deal and, therefore, there's nothing to report? Ask for things you can't do. You say to me: "And the assumption of the 17th year? On the assumption of the 17th year there is the forecast of liquidation in the name of the new convention of the ICAM. In the assumption of year 17 you don't say of this liquidation to five objectives will correspond to each peseta..., euro. No, no, Mr. Coscubiela, it's that always wanting to entangle others is troubling. I'm not sorry, I don't have the will to entangle you or anyone else with this subject, not one – not one. The only thing I'm saying is that we're planning the settlement of the deal for the 17th year because we're convinced that we can sign the deal, because we're convinced that the central government will accept our proposal. It's just that. For this reason we still don't have the beast of the 17th year, which the other years wasn't like that, the other years the beast of the 17th year had already arrived, but not this time. We're taking on some costs. You say: "Political will, energy. We are taking on some costs, which at this time the ICAM is paying with the money of the Generalitat without the arrival of a peseta... – today I have the pesetas –, there has been no arrival of a euro on the part of the central government, because, as we have not signed the agreement, there is no progress. Therefore, we are assuming the costs of our decisions. And finally, you say, "All these people who are the object of ICAM's resolutions," you say, "unrighteous. They can go to the courts; in fact, there are – there are – to the courts, and the courts resolve. And what we will do in these dialog tables is analyze all the feelings that have been made, that there are many interests, and see in which cases the decision of ICAM is validated and in which cases this decision is contradicted. But citizens' rights as patients are perfectly guaranteed by a judicial system to which citizens who do not comply can be addressed, and you know that. So, we make the changes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.84.0	Counselor, counselor, has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.85.0	... but make them from the prudence, from the seny and from the guarantees. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.86.0	Right now. [[Asking the Government about the emergency services collapsing]] [[300-00125/11]] The agenda item is: Asking the Government about the collapsing of emergency services, presented for the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.87.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, it seems to me that you have a little tacky in the morning. Retrieving the thread of an article that seems to me to you read detention and that you know: « Bauman says that if the ability to carry bridges is measured by the strength of its weakest pillars, the solidarity of a community must be measured for the well-being and dignity of its weakest members. Bauman might say, too, that to the Catalan sanitarium, more than a plate of rock of the lady Pepis, he tied an electroxoc to reboot. This article is from Montse Santolino published in La Directa, and he narrates or tries to do an analysis of sixty-five hours in the emergencies of a Catalan hospital; an article made practically one year ago, is not from now on. We want to start here to explain a little bit that this question that we are asking today does not go from what health model we would like to be enough for ourselves or create or build, and I do not say that we would like it by whims, only health model that we believe would be the health system that would actually respond to the needs of the population, but today we will not enter there or we will not enter there directly. Also say that we understand that what we want to expose today and that in the fund we will present and what is to be converted and will be converted into a later seat are minor actions, emergency actions, actions that we believe the moment is demanding. As I said, today we are not fully addressing the health model, but it is obvious that having opted for a health model to the detriment of another one has generated and generates a follow-up of consequences that we understand and believe we should start to attend to and "finish practices". And it's that taking data from just one month ago, and in fact we could update it to yesterday or today and little change, we have at the Sea Hospital, 5 of genera, 103 patients in emergencies, 22 of them with more than twenty-four hours there; of these, 10, more than forty-four, and of these, two more than seventy-two hours. In Tauli Park, the same 5 genera, 115 patients in emergencies, 19 patients with more than twenty-four hours of service. In the Valley of Hebron, the same day, 82 patients pending hospitalization. In Can Ruti, a half-life of 20 pending patients of these, 8 hours more than twenty-four hours in the service. In Bellvitge, the 4th generation, 24 unbedded admissions and 25 patients with more than twenty-four hours of enrollment in all emergencies. And it is that from this X-ray, more than that, we can find that from the beginning of the detail there are fewer, or still, there are 1,064 fewer workers; there are approximately 1,200 less beds, which oscil·len but we could find that oscil·len depending on the concrete moment, but that they could be about 114 beds closed to Bellvitge, 130 beds to the Valley of Hebron, 115 to Can Ruti, 30 to the Hospital of Viladecans, all the hospitals of the Catalan Institute of Health, all the hospitals of management, title and public provision. But let's go back to sixty-five hours, back to the article I was referring to before, literally, the article: "There are many Mines more discreet than the Mine; but CAP where the Meths are freaked out with overload and inequity and one day, surpassed, they tell you. But it's the last day you see them, because then they run away. From the worst CAPs, like the worst schools, everyone on the run, everyone on the run. There's migrants and the big people left; thousands of people who get a lot of attention, professionals who are often step by step and who don't make complaints because and so on. This article... or so, it still smells like the article. But that's the situation, isn't it? It is not just the details of the later years of the employer's councillor or the health model of the ‘socio-virgency' which has reigned for years in the public health of this country, but it is also the socio-economic situation which portrays this article, of the people; it is also the system, or the collapsing of the health system, of the situation of these people. The last legislature, the student councillor of Salut, said: "If more people pay a private pool, more people will be able to participate in public money. It is necessary to ensure that the public sector does not compete unfairly with the private sector. And he also said: "Salvation is a private good, on the basis of every one; not, therefore, of the State. And this responds to the model generated, not just from last legislature and not just from this councillor, and it is that this model that has done is to generate that year's return of the affiliates of the private mutuals grows: 2014 already had a 27_percent of the Catalan population that had chosen for private sanitation – study of the same councillor. Therefore, this model that promotes that people who end up paying for mutuals is a model that also facilitates private mutuals to be announced in primary care centers or hospital emergency rooms, because there are announcements of mutuals in these spaces. Therefore, emergency public centres col·lapsades and private sanitation are increasing. What's going on? It happens that if salvation, the right of health, is conditioned by the contribution of the money via the beneficiaries, it happens that, if more than one public administration ends indirectly promoting the provision of health services in a private way, it is the right to salvation and the inequalities are widened. And here we'll match. And it's that it's not speculation, that the inequalities are spread, that they end up having an obvious class bias. The life expectancy of a person from Sarria is eleven years higher than the life expectancy of a person from Torre Baró; eleven years of difference between one class and another. And that's what ends up causing the health care system we have. Because, if the market is to guarantee the correct distribution of salvation according to what we have, what ends up passing is that salvation remains in the hands of what the people can or cannot pay; and we understand that the health debts that the council has and that the government has go far beyond the market being the distributor of salvation. But we're going back to the emergency room and the crash. Now they're running an advertising and awareness campaign to explain to people what they can do when they want to go to emergencies and try not to wander into hospital emergencies or think about it before. Because you explain that 52_percent of hospital emergencies in 2014 could have been resolved before the CUP or 12_percent before the CAP. And despite this, and despite the fact that we agree on this, the last few years the primary and community care has jointly suffered in all the public health care important details and has clearly affected the service provided. And it's that primary care is still in place and has always been underfunded, but it's still more. In short, from 2010 to 2015, primary attention retailing has meant more than 800_million euros, which is obvious that, although we announce that these are the assumptions of the reversal of retailing and that we have reversed 37_percent of the retailing in health, this is not reflected in the primary attention. In fact, the situation of the emergency crisis is over, and we could move to 1994. He obviously doesn't only see the details of the late seven years, the neoliberal policies. We could move to the year 1994 and to the Hospital of the Valley of Hebron, for example. And we look, we lay there, and we see that at that time they began to number the reasons of the passes to locate them patients – 1994, report to TV3, and we have it documented. And this continued for twenty years, one day and another, without going out on the news, except for specific moments, to certify its existence, and it was a torture for the patient. But we can't deny it any more than that, can we? ..., and we said it: 1994; therefore, we are talking about twenty years ago; therefore, primary care or emergency response is nothing new. It's a problem of infra-financing, yes, but we can start solving the no. We cannot deny that from the beginning of the retail trade, as expressed by the consolidation of a very concrete model of ownership of collected resources in very few hands, the state of well-being in its conjunction and of public health in concrete terms has seen reduced the presupposition it was intended for. And despite the great statements made by all those responsible for public health in Catalonia, where the importance of primary and community care has been affirmed and recognised in the past years of general detail in all services – hospitals, ambulances, residences, socio-health care, mental health... –, the reversal in primary care has become even more underfunded and undervalued. And in this sense neither the pressure nor the responsibility of the professionals, who are the ones who have always saved the quality of the health system, can be translated. And let's go back to the sixty-five hours, and I'm done. Maybe what they call nine mental structures to have summer structures. Maybe it's not the file or the media, but it's the file...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.88.0	Mrs. Regant, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.89.0	...and the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.90.0	Thank you. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.91.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, you are asking a question about emergencies with a great deal of respect, and I thank you very much, as if you have not passed the king. And now we can do it with the white elephant, which we all know there's a white elephant in this room, but we can do it as if we don't see it and we can keep talking. I agree that, listen, we should go through the page; but I, if I may, will do some reflection on the white elephant. Because I believe that if you are brave, and it seems to me good, to hold the government accountable for some of the problems that have arisen at these times in Catalan sanitation, I think you should be equally brave to recognize that the cartel was a mistake, because courage must be in both directions to life: courage must be in order to denounce the mistakes of others, the responsibilities of others, and courage must also be in order to take on the mistakes that are appropriate. Everyone's wrong in this life, listen, there's no king. All; no one is perfect, neither the CUP. And their political groups, everyone. That counselor was wrong, he recognized it on a few occasions, until he had no problem quoting the nurses, talking to them, clarifying the meaning of that interview, apologizing, writing it down, making a statement... you could also... , to be valuable to life in this other sense. Perhaps it is more difficult to be brave in this sense than in the sense that you are habitually; I do not deny that it is in the logic of criticism. Because, honestly, it's that when you're wrong about life you have two options: rectifying, which is what it is when there's courage, and not rectifying, which is what there is when there's the opposite of courage, which you already know what it is, huh? And, by the way, I really appreciate Congresswoman Boya having the courage to publicly dissociate herself from that sign, don't you? I have taken advantage of these days to remember that you have made various interventions from this very window in which you have shown a certain coincidence, a certain, let's say, agreement, nor that you are punctual, partial, in relation to some of the policies that the Health Department has been doing. I need to clarify myself, because in my normal logic, classical logic, let's just say, that maybe it's not yours, I don't know exactly what its position is with regard to the Health Council, and I'd like to make it very clear to me, to know what political strategy we need to take forward. Simply make it clear: if you endorse the words of the Faristol – which are published in the session diary, we can recover them – or if the one that supports the words of the street... Or maybe you will tell me that the two are compatible; then you will have to make me hear in what measure they are compatible, what they say to the Faristol and what they say to the street. I invite you in this war that you want to give in favor of a public health of quality, that it is a real factor of social justice in Catalonia, I invite you not to be mistaken for enemy; indeed, I invite you not to be mistaken for enemy. Because of the social movements – and you have been involved in these mobilizations – you have been many years: "Proud privatisations, let's go back the shortcuts, and we'll find hundreds and hundreds of banners and mobilizations in which the motto was: "Proud mobilizations, let's go back the shortcuts, and this was the script– that was the script–, a script that I know I share in a good measure, let's tell us. And that's what this government is doing – that's what this government is doing. This government is transferring activity that until now has made private operators eager to work to public hospitals and is recovering the assumption. And you know that, and that's what they're doing the counseling that I have the privilege of captivating and the people that follow me. And we're doing the deprivation of management – I'm saying: from management, the deprivation of management, because this acclaim I think is very necessary, which, if not, then generate debates –, the deprivation of the biggest management ever done in the Health Department since the 80's. And we're recovering the assumption. The clippings, 1,500_million, and it was said, and it was said and repeated, 1,500_million, the clippings, between year 10 and year 14, and between year 15 and year 17 we have not recovered 500. And I said that when two floors are to be raised and only in three pushes, you can only be one_third satisfied; okay, but we turned one_third of the clipboards, that's it. And it has not yet been possible to go to the salary mass, to the reversal, to the equipping of primary plants, certainly, because the indication has increased, and, therefore, growing vegetation for what it does to the therapeutic needs, and a large part of it actually goes, therefore, to the hospital pharmacy, because we will not stop giving chemotherapy to the new cases of cancer that we have every year in Catalonia, and they cannot be cured at the primary! The growing prevalence of cancer in Catalonia can't solve it in the first place, because people would die; we need to solve it in hospitals and with treatments that are worth a lot of money. Therefore, we are working to strengthen the primary absolutely, we are working in a new key – you know, I have explained it many times – in a new paradigm to try to give this battle to see if we are able to solve the problem of emergencies in Catalonia, with this National Emergency Plan, a problem that all the autonomous communities of Spain have, a problem that all the public health systems of Europe have today! If we get lucky, if three years from now we can say – that we don't know it today – that we have made an important leap in solving the problem of emergencies in Catalonia, we would probably be pioneers in Europe; we would also be able to put things in their right size. But it's everybody's problem that doesn't mean we're not doing anything else to try to solve this. But, listen, we're doing whatever you say we do. And you, sometimes, give the feeling that you're against. Because the point is to be against it. And when the government doesn't do what you ask, you're against it. And when he sees a new government and he does what you asked before yesterday, so you're back against it. I don't know if this way of working accelerates the revolution or sooner makes it go any further, honestly – honestly. Look, you're asking me now for emergencies, you've got all the right of the world – all the right of the world – but if I explain to you the emergency data of the 15th year of Tauli, so this year has grown by 4_per_cent compared to the 15th year – then I'll give you the exact data – which means that the situation of Tauli's emergencies throughout the past legislature was very harsh. The year 13, the year 14, the year 15... the emergencies of Tauli were also very collapsing, practically like now, huh? And the professionals were very cremated, too, in full pay details, practically as they are now. And now you find out about the emergencies. So now we can't criticize privatizations, and with the reversal of retail data singing... there's all the right of the world. But now, you, now, that the emergencies are just as bad, a little worse, if you want, but not much worse, that is two years ago, that is three years ago, that is four years ago, discover the emergencies. Why initiatives of the Joint Group in the past legislature: written questions to the Government about emergencies, zero; oral questions to the Government about emergencies, zero; motions subsequent to questions about emergencies, zero; questions about emergencies, zero; proposals for resolutions in the Health Committee about emergencies, zero. Zero. Listen, we'll go over it together. I looked at myself, see if I could find any. Not one. It's all right, actually. Now you'll have time to replicate me. I wanted to explain this to you with a net game to my first intervention so I wouldn't leave it at the end of the second and you don't have time to explain and replicate. I say it now – I say it now – and you, therefore, will be able to replicate it as you see it. But I do believe that the revolution is faster if when governments do it the groups that want to make the revolution in accounts to go against it as at least they pose on the side. Thank you, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.92.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Then there's the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.93.0	Well, no disappointment in the intervention. Miri, we're here to talk about emergencies and we're still talking about emergencies. And it's not that we've discovered the emergencies now. Many years ago, we knew them, the emergencies, because, beyond parliamentary activity, there is life outside of these pairs, and so the work also went further there. And it's not about making or not making revolution. It's about talking about what we think we need to talk about here when we consider it appropriate. You may consider this not the time. Okay, but that's the point. What we raised was, and what we say today is: there is an emergency breakdown because there is an underfunding of the historical health system; because, and that does not deny it, and therefore it is obvious, there is also a model that we believe has provided it, that many people believe it has not, but this was not the subject of the debate and we did not want to put it today to debate. But we do want to put on the table that the emergency crisis and the infra-financing of primary care are related, and that, beyond information campaigns to the citizenry to explain that they are trying to find out exactly where they are going, which also means that we have the primary care of this country, the CUPs and the CAPs, which are the ones that will have to gather these people who try not to go to hospital emergency services, in order to avoid these collapses and these situations that are reproduced again a year ago. I mean, now's the time. If now is the time when, as you said, they are beginning to revert to detail, let's do it so that those who are first, the entrance door of the health system of many people, are equipped as it touches and avoid other situations. Because it is obvious that if there are areas of Catalonia where there is no open CUP, then people will not be able to go there, when they cheat on the phone to find out where to go, and so they will end up going to hospital emergencies. It is obvious that if there are no necessary supplies or all the necessary services to serve part of the population right now, people will prefer to go to hospital emergencies, despite the fact that there are more than twenty-four hours waiting, because they are doing the medical tests that primary care centres cannot do now. This is the idea: how do we solve this and how do we expect them not to be who they are, and how do we give the health care that we all want the people to have at these times, and that we would like you to have gotten it back also twenty years ago, two years ago, like yourself. This is the point of debate and this is what we're coming to talk about today. That on different occasions we have congratulated concrete initiatives of the department that are neither invalid nor that we are still critical, that we make proposals, or that on other topics we say that we do not agree with what the councillor does. So we don't sweep things, either. We have said this on different occasions to the Health Committee, and today, for the first time, we go out here and make an inquiry in health care, because we understand that now is the time to put this on the table and now is the time we can put it down and start addressing the issue, more than we know at the moment that the council is doing. Because the problem went beyond campaigns or phone calls. The problem went further, because we cannot hold the people responsible for this, in the same way that we cannot hold the professionals and professionals responsible for many things. The problems are polite, but also resources and material solutions at a certain time because in the matter of salvation, really, the attention that people have also taken into account all the elements, and therefore take into account that it is the social determinants of salvation, and therefore also take into account this class biax that exists today, but also, therefore, in the health system. And this is the concrete question that we put on the table and it's what we think we need to put on the table right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.94.0	Thank you, Mrs. Regant. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.95.0	Thank you, Madam President. Let's talk about emergencies – let's talk about emergencies. We've given some first data, because the people don't have to have an accurate diagnosis, you need to, but it's good that the people have a basic picture of which is the demand for emergencies. And we explained that a 12 – a 12 – percent demand is MAT V, is gravity level V, which is the people that could be attended to the primary attention. Therefore, we need to be aware that the reinforcement of primary care – I am talking about ordinary primary care, I am not talking about the CUAP – would only allow us to manage a 12_percent of the demand for hospital emergencies, and the problem would remain the same. So, neither does... doesn't mean that you don't have to do this, and now I'll explain how we do it, but neither do we invent magic solutions that won't solve the problem. I'm not saying you do, I'm saying we don't fall for this risk. Two: CUP. The CUP..., is very different, because we have identified that a 52_per_cent is MAT IV, gravity level IV. At MAT V, the person needs to wait until the morning, because there is no vital risk, and going the day to the headmaster, and MAT IV needs attention. There is no vital risk, but it needs attention at that very moment, and therefore it needs to go somewhere. And it's this 52_per_cent, the one that can go to the CUP. And taking advantage to explain in his parliamentary office, I have explained on other occasions, that I gave instructions several weeks ago, which I think is already a few months ago, because it is a very important step in relation to the CUP that had not been done so far, that is that it was recognized as the specific network of the primary care network, that means that the General Health Map Sub-Directorate at these times has a task of the councillor that is to make the CUP's portfolio of services, to define it officially. That wasn't done. This is why they have some skills, others have others. Therefore, sometimes there is some confusion about what is CUP, which is not CUP. Quin horari, quins professionales, quina tecnologia, quina analytica, quina radiologia e el mapa territoriale de CUAP. A defined date... These are the two tasks of the Sanitari Map Branch: the service portfolio, the territorial map, and therefore the standardization and creation of an authentic Catalan network of CUP, which at these times, as such, is not, in the measure that it is not subject to a strict portfolio definition, as it is defined by hospitals depending on their different levels or as it is defined by CAPs depending on their different levels. So, here, okay. But I'm telling you, who's collapsing emergencies is MAT III, above all, who's the ones inside and who's supposed to be watching. Because a MAT IV is not left in observation. Those who could go to the CUP are not left in observation. If in any case, to put it quite simply and colloquially, they are in the waiting room hoping to be atticed, but one time they are atticed, in general, they can already go. The remaining hours and hours are this MAT III, and in some cases a MAT II, gravity levels III and gravity levels II. And this is where we have to do a very complicated job, which is the analysis of the causes, of the type of demand, and to hear that it is a multifactorial problem that is not only solving more money, that is what I want to try to make hear, which does not mean that there is no more money. But it's not just about putting in more money. Because, probably, what emergencies do is miraculously a demographic change. We have more life expectancy, societies age and we have more chronic disease. And emergencies didn't make up for this kind of disease. And today, in change, a fan of the only possible gateway to that chronic malaise that is destabilization: that oncological malaise that is destabilization, that complex chronic patient that is destabilization, that patient with respiratory disease that is destabilization. And we should be able to build resolution capabilities – CUAP, primary, etc. – that allow us to manage these patients in advance. Because if we avoid destabilizing, its quality will be much higher. Therefore, it is not only a matter of taking off the urgency. It's about giving the city to what it deserves, which is a prevention ability to this evil complex. And, therefore, the National Emergency Plan must be able to hear this multifactoriality of the demand for emergency hospital care and to put alternative resources on the table. The 061. Miri, in one week, 7_per_cent– in one week, 7_per_cent– have increased the scams. And you know why he's okay, right? Because the city can't and we don't have to ask it to know what's the degree of gravity of what's happening to it. And, therefore, it is basic that the city, in order to explain to it if there is a CUP or if there is a hospital, we say to it: "Trick a place where you have the knowledge that you do not have to know, and there, when you explain what is happening to it, that it is the only one that needs to know you, they will tell you what is what you need. And that's why the campaign focused on 061, because it's exactly the gateway that will make life easier for the patient who has a health problem. I hope that we will continue to work together on this issue and that in a few years' time we can say that Catalonia has been a pioneer in solving a problem that is very important to all European public systems at this time. Thank you, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.96.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the state of the coast]] [[300-00126/11]] The third point of the order of the day is: inquiry to the Government on the state of the coast, presented by Ms Montserrat Candini, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.97.0	Thank you, President. Councillors..., allow me to make the introduction of the inquiry to Councillor Rull..., even though there was an anticipated report in this inquiry that I had to see with posters, I, like the Health Spokesman, want to say to the Councillor Comín, already expressed it at that time, that, obviously, violence is not an argument nor an element to be able to defend the first ideas. And in this sense more than once that I have also felt myself, and other people I know..., somehow or otherwise we have felt a little raped by certain actions, I always resort to a phrase by George Orwell, who said that "the important thing is not to stay alive, but to remain human. I think that George Orwell's reference would certainly help us all folds in time to make the decisions. A hug, Counsellor Comín. Well, Councillor Rull, I would like to convey to you, in any case, an inquiry from the coastal storm, which, as you are well aware, affected the conjunction of Catalonia from 20 to 23, and which was a very important Greek storm which affected the Costa Brava and the central coast and which, at the length of disband and diumenge, extended to the rest of the coast, all affecting the Costa Daurada and the Ebra delta. The exceptionality of the storm, with waves between four and six metres, the divendres, and between six and eight, disbanded and diumenge, with peaks of up to almost eleven metres before Begur's head, together with the force of the wind, provoked a very energetic onatge which, somehow or otherwise, had a very, very, very important impact, therefore, for what it does to the whole territory. It has affected, as you know, and we have seen very many images..., it has affected platges, sea passers-by, first-line infrastructure, with floods that have also affected, therefore, within habitats and locations located on the first-line of the sea, and that concretely the effects have been, logically, the loss of platgiarism and displacement of sorres, crossing of sea passers-by, affectation to services and infrastructures, such as now collectors, pantalans, port protection works... All this time has affected many places in our country's conjunction. Now I'm going to degenerate... because, obviously, even then I'm going to delve much deeper into two territorial areas, that its impact has been much greater, so, logically, because it can't seem like I'm just focusing on what's happened, certainly, so a lot harder and with many more consequences, but I'm going to rest a whole bunch of people, right? But one part, let's say, of the Maresme, and one part of the Maresme and also of the Ebre Delta are especially sensitive, let's say, with this time for the impact it has had. But I would like to make a quick and quick rest: Sant Vicenç de Montalt, to the porter area, of the plaza; to Mataró, the plaza Sant Simó ; to Cabrera de Mar, a strong return from the boat club to the end of the sea pass; to Masnou, a strong return in some plazas, especially to the plaza of Ocata ; to Sitges, a general affect on all the plazas, and much more specifically to the plaza of Garraf ; to the Port of Selva, the plaza of Robert, completely occupied by some places of vegetation and leaves; to Sant Pescador, the plazas absolutely inaccessible because all the access was flooded, to Sant Feliu de Guixols, a regression of some places of the town; to Sant Pescador, the plazas of the place of the place, to the place of the place, to the place of the place There is a whole suite of municipalities: Altafulla, Tarragona, Vila-seca, Amposta, Sant Carles de la Ràpita, Sant Jaume d'Enveja, etcetera. But now I will be much more concrete, counselor, in those territorial areas where the impact has been very hard. Malgrat de Mar has been particularly affected by everything that represents the public road that exists in the areas of camping near the mouth of the Tordera, which runs parallel to the coast line. The expenditure necessary to repair the vial must be conditioned on the execution of sufficient protective work by the competent body so that it does not again cause damage to consideration in the event of future times. For what it does in Pineda de Mar, the sea pass is practically missing and a lot of damage linked to public services. For what it does to the Ebre Delta, the effects of the storm are the area of the plateau of the Bassa de l'Arena, the platja of Marquesa and the path of access to the Fangar, specifically the area in which it had not acted in the temporal anterior, as well as the final path of the platja of Riumar. The total cost of this area alone, from here to the Ebre Delta, is up to €3,300,000. Counselor, it has been a long time since the municipalities complained in a very special way to the Spanish Government that I acted in all that they still have skills, and that some examples of desire and, as well as many advances in commitments, at the time of the truth is that the degree of compliment is practically nil. And this is where I allow myself to rest two elements, two questions that in their moment, therefore, are compromised and that today we don't know practically anything about it, do we? There is everything that is called, and that I myself was part of one of the meetings when, many times, therefore, they visited us on the part of the state representatives, so that the "Maresme strategy" is called. In 2014, the State, with a document that is this, the Strategy of action in the Maresme, offered a whole series of works and priority actions that should be carried out at this point of the coast. In essence, the strategy laid out a whole series of contributions in which, at last, even though the overall cost was around €48_million, until they were committed to a first, let's say, declaration of making contributions of up to €32_million. The truth is that it's been a long time, now it seems that there are some corresponding projects that they call "phase 1, this is 2017, I'm talking about 2014, of..., respects a theme that is linked to the Masnou and Mar Prize, huh? , but the truth is that since 2014, the delay in planning and execution is considerable. And I, who knows more about this region, if this little lawsuit is allowed, I can say, counselor, that the absence of results is a constant, right? Therefore, it is necessary to carry out a series of investments and, in this sense, also, that, on the part of the Spanish Government, therefore, can answer in a much clearer and much more clear way, let us say, of course. And not only that, but that reality is dynamic and obviously the territory is dynamic, and still much more so with these vulnerability impairments because it represents what the storms represent and what they involve, what we ask the most is that they do, let's just say, an update of those 2014 commitments because more than they arrive later, now legally three years after the document is no longer valid. And I'll say the same thing about the Ebre Delta, which we all know is a particularly vulnerable area, that it's a zone of the Catalan coast that is under a strong regression, today a Life program is being pushed, it was also promised by the ministry a strategy for the Ebre Delta, and, let's face it, it seems to be that it was said to be a work table because it was also once more there, those promises that were made, from a point of view of the results of the..., let's say, and of the evolution about being loving to what is going on, so truth, res of res, right? So much so that even all MEP Ramon Tremosa denounced the inaction to the European Commission, didn't he? , considering that we are talking about such a vulnerable area that the regression of the delta is absolutely very worrying in this sense, isn't it? , and therefore MEP Ramon Tremosa denounces the inaction before the European Commission in such a sensitive and sensitive area. Counselor, with this first intervention, in any case, tell him that I, if he also 'permits my condition of mayor, now more than as a deputy, you know perfectly and you are a person who has been linked for a long time to municipal politics, that we have a principle, the mayors, the mayors, the governors, that it is all about the territory without the territory. It is not only this, that "things for the territory without the territory, but also more, therefore, in this sense than it is the first line of sea we feel a lot of goldsmiths. You quickly went to the areas where the storm had occurred, you quickly gathered with the mayors, and to the extent of our possibilities, of the powers that the Government of the Generality has, so you are acting, and we ask, in any case, that you explain to us what the level of performance you will do, but obviously what it is that all the delegates, Catalonia, have major instruments to be able to work and be able to act in the territory. I insist: « Res for the territory without the territory. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.98.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candini. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.99.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member, Members, Members, I thank you for making this question with one theme, let's say, that it has two approaches: one of immediate character with regard to all the damage that has been caused by this time that has had very strong effects, and also a more strategic, far-reaching approach, from what we have seen in climate change. You explained that we spoke of an exceptional time and explained what was the size of the waves that affected the coast, affected the coast of Catalonia and affected the coast of Valencia in a very clear way, with waves of almost eleven_metres. But this exceptional time we have to make it clear that it can no longer be extraordinary for the changes that exist at these times to nature and climate, coming from the climate change. This is a new element that we have and that we have on the table. Therefore, this type of incidence, of affections on our coast may, unfortunately, cease to be exceptional in order to be part of a routine against which we must be able to rebel there. Therefore, if we want to face this debate in classic terms, which is what we understand is the Spanish State, I think we are wrong. And we're very wrong. Here we have to incorporate it in a very – very – clear way into what we call the strategy of mitigation and, above all, adaptation to the effects of climate change. And you suggested it in relation to the Maresmian strategy, which is a strategy conceived in many aspects today in ancient terms. We need to talk about a new concept of doing things. In fact, with the strategy that we and together with the territory, in this case, with the Council of Deltebre, we are planning for the Delta, we incorporate some new operating parameters, which is this strategy linked to the Life program, asking to make a very substantial change of layout. I'll make parentheses. If anyone today still doubts the climate change, the existence of this reality, going to the Ebro Delta, going to the Marquesa Plateau, looking exactly what is the level of subsidence there and the level of recoils just, let's say, from the delta area. This is a reality and it is a clear and compelling reality. And so that we can face these challenges, we need to be more able to decide on what affects us and on the management of the coast. The Constitution is very strong in the sense that it gives the Spanish State the practically exclusive competence and with many aspects that are excluded from the scope of the public maritime domain of the coast. All public goods are owned by the State and not by the Generality and not by the City. Here, also, the year 2007 and the year 2008 were made some decrees of transfers of functions and you served the Generality of Catalonia. Very well measured – and this is explained very well by the director general of Urbanism, to whom I want to thank the presence today in this debate –, assembles at a time when we are suffering a lot in other aspects that is the transfer of wheels. It follows, to us, in fact, if you go through some services with limitations that are very obvious. The same Director General used an expression, which may be a little sophisticated in parliamentary terms, but it's very graphic. In fact, the Government of Catalonia in the field, let's say, of the action of the seashore we make a little API, of agents of the real estate. The competition has another; which, in fact, recapits the canons is another and, to us, what we are concerned with is basically to manage the authorities of the activities that are developing on the coast. The concessions we have to make, we have to manage them, but at these times this limits us extraordinarily the possibility of making this strategic view. Therefore, a first idea we want to share with your parliamentary group and we want to share with Parliament is that Catalonia needs political power, able to make decisions in this concrete framework. Because – and now we are entering into the effects of the time that has become between the 6th and 8th of this month of fever – the Spanish State has reacted late and reacted badly, and with a wealth of resources that we consider insufficient to cope with the damage that they have produced. It's true here that there's a diversity of competitions, huh? The Government of Catalonia directly undertakes the repair of those services that we manage. In relation to the collectors we do it ourselves or the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, in relation to the collector of bringing, here, to Badalona, for example, or with other effects that we assume them. But the most important part has to be assumed by the General Administration of the State, with resources that are limited and resources that are insufficient. But, further on, you were talking about the "Maresme strategy". Let's explain... you've started planning it, but we're going deeper into what the "Maresme strategy" meant. What he was trying to do was to make a follow-up of suspense inputs, whether it be deposits or profit and recirculation of sediments arranged in places where there is accumulation, and also construction of containment and protection infrastructure to be able to stabilize these inputs to the maximum. You explained it very well: 48 million euros. The General Administration of the State was prepared to contribute 32. The rest, I had to do the tourism sector and the joints, the territories. At this point, we're late. They have now explained to us, in a meeting held by the Director General of Urbanism of Catalonia with the Director General of Costs of the State, that the corresponding projects to phase 1 that affect the municipalities of Masnou and Premià de Mar will now be approved. Next, it will continue with the actions planned at the next stages of the strategy. The strategy, as you said, was approved in 2014. The delay in planning and execution is very considerable. And more, of the storms we haven't had after that. I was able to visit the area, I was able to visit Pineda and I was able to visit Malgrat. It is fixed that, in the case of Pineda, the defects were smaller because it was able to build, in its moment, under the smile, a dic that allowed to hold the position. That's what we need to learn, and that's what we need to be able to incorporate. So it's not just a matter of what resources they've committed to, it's just that we have to be layers of what gave the principle: to draw this strategy in terms that are still current and that incorporate the climate change parameter. It's basic, it's basic. And that's what we asked the General Administration of the State. We asked for real capacity because we could make the decisions, we asked that, as far as we are concerned, there is a minimum of institutional loyalty at the time of giving the information, at the time of explaining what is going on, and we asked for proximity to the territory, which is the final phrase that you said: you have not felt that you are making a scene with a vision, on many occasions, Jacobin, which is very ineffective and very inefficient. That's the point. We do not only ask to be able to decide from the territory, from the land, on a question of legitimate demand for political power in relation to a nation that is Catalonia, but for very practical reasons, very pragmatic, very obvious. If we manage practically everything that goes on the coast from a point of view of the activities, of the services, it has all the sense of the world that we can also lead in the hour of drawing this strategy. Now it seems..., and the good news is that with regard to the LIFE programme that we want to deploy in the area of Judaism, it seems that there may be a participation of the General Administration of the State, but who decided to push this has followed the Council of Delta and the Generality of Catalonia. The basic idea is, therefore, that resources can now arrive, but in the end they will end up with pieces that do not respond to a more general, more strategic view of an area that is fundamental to economic activity and, above all, to the territorial balance and maintenance of biodiversity in our country. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.100.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mrs. Candini.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.101.0	Thank you, President. Effectively, counselor, you have incorporated an absolutely powerful element to hear and to know how to interpret, therefore, the current moments, which is, indeed, everything you have to see with the climate change. And the climate change, obviously, is giving us many signals from a long time ago and, therefore, the interpretation of what happens in the territory from this effect, logically, requires, therefore, we indicators, requires new analysis and therefore requires new solutions. It's also true that I think we all need to learn a little bit of the mistakes of... for a long time. That's to say, sometimes, it seems to us that we can fight against nature. That is to say, nature, in its head and in its end, has much stronger, more than then, with the climate change, the same nature evolved and changed. What do I mean by that? That possibly, many times, we have finished all folds in planning, for many years, so, many times we have been, let's say, incorporating elements of stay in territories that are very vulnerable. Therefore, storms and rivers are already clearly required to say that nature passes through here, and we must be able to find the balance between the real interpretation of what nature is; moreover, to add everything that represents the factor of climate change, so, really, to know how to interpret and to give a good answer that lasts years and that is a response, in any case, that I would ask – I said earlier – but that I would ask that there be maximum complicity between the local world and the Generality, this maximum complicity between the local world and the Generality. You were commenting, counselor, therefore, that really – and more, I also know very first-hand in my condition of mayor, too –, that certainly on the part of Costs have practically many, many, competitions, right? Many times, when in the exercise, then, let's say, to throw in front of the same municipality– here I see many mayors–, the same municipality, to plan it with rigour, with the utmost consent on the part of all political forces with a vision of twenty, twenty-five, thirty years as at least, to be able to make the planning that it touches in the same municipality, and you find that many competitions, it is there of land, sea and air. And the land, sea and air, in the 21st century, so it costs a little bit, right? Therefore, because I believe, by all accounts, that it is not in absolute rejection. In this sense, counselor, I think that it is very necessary to create our instruments of planning and management of the coast; you were talking to me about this, that in any case, what we are instruments but a new strategy of the territory, I think this definition. This new strategy of the territory, what we are asking is that it is mainly – above all – that is, let's say, complicity on the part of the municipalities. A strategy of the territory that is to be missed – missing – by this constant toxicity of what it is; obviously, we are in a different process, in which we intend, in short, not to ask permission in order to manage our own territory, but while we do not need permission in order to manage our own territory, obviously there must be as much as you would say, the maximum institutional respect, this double-directed way, a maximum information because, sometimes, it is not only – and this man too has lived with us, it is not only – that the Government of Catalonia is not respected as the first institution of our country, but also, as far as decision-making is concerned, from a point of view of our own, it is not only – that the generality of Catalonia is not respected as the first institution of our country, but also from a point of view of our own, but also from a point of view of our own, it is not only – if it is clear that it is not true, that it is not really, that it is not really, that it is, that it is not really, that it is not really, that it is, that it is not really, that it is, that it is not really, that it is not really, that it is, that it is, that it is not really, that it is, that it is, that it is not really, that it is, that it is, that it is not really, that it is that it is, that it is, that it is not really, that it is, that it is, that it is not really, that it is, that it is, that it is, that it is not really, that it is, that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is necessary that it is that it is that it is not that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is that it is In any case, to end, counselor, say, yes, in the name of practically almost all the mayors of the coast of Catalonia, at their side in defense that the Generalitat can lead the entire management of the coast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.102.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candini. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.103.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, on this second return, very quickly, because you have raised which is the way of work, so make a summary respect what we give to the principle. In that strategic view – the strategy of the Maresmian, the strategy of the Ebre, of the Ebre Delta, but of the coastal conjunction – it is the Government of Catalonia that is to lead it and the Government of Catalonia that is to lead it. This is a first concept and a first idea. Fixed that, in relation to the strategy of the Maresme, which prepared the planned reports, precisely, it was the scientific world, the university world, since the leadership of the Generality of Catalonia, and it was placed on the table of the Ministry of Environment, in Madrid. At the moment that strategy was initially approved, it was fixed, huh? It was ignored that the scientific and research basis on which it was based had been elaborated from here to here. Second thing: in relation to the management of all the activities that are due to term on our coast, managed by the Generalitat of approximately 2,500 concessions, of especially intense uses, profitable or dangerous, restaurants, water clubs, etc., the State has reserved the function of issuing a report within two months. The General Administration of the State does not normally issue a report within the terms. In the past two years, forty-four concession shippers, only six reports have been issued before the deadline; however, they do not send out much out of the way and generate a first-class, first-level legal uncertainty situation. Even though it's above the limit, when it's put up in a situation of temporaryity and precariousness to what the Generalitat de Catalunya has already done. You know it and you know it perfectly, in relation to this area. Therefore, we must be able to decide ourselves. The third element: what are we doing? Because we don't stay in the lament, and this could be an inquiry that, in relation to the counselor's answer, you just stay in the complaint and the lament. We want to be proactive, and that is why in the very months this Parliament will see the new law of the coast, which we are working on. At these times, processing, public information is taking place. This law of the coast is not only to deploy the powers of the Government of Catalonia, but to go further. Who are the main novelties? First: the creation of new instruments of order and management of the coast that allow, by means of territorial objectives, the establishment of criteria for the institution of titles and authorizations. We also want to incorporate this strategic view element on coastal management. Third: to distribute the competitions between the local world and the Generality. Therefore, it is a law that has as its object, one of the objectives, to seize the gatherings in order to make decisions. We do trust local power. We think that when it's managed from nearness and it's managed with a deep sense of public service things go and go well, and therefore we want to make this new distribution of competitions. The Generality will be competent in approving the planning instruments and in setting up the concessional titles, and the joints will give the authorities in agreement with this arrangement. We will establish a new economic regime and finance until we can fully assume the management of the domain canon and, later on, articulate the mechanisms to promote the management integrated in the participation of all agents, public agents and private agents. Therefore, the final conclusion would be: a strategic view of a country thinking big, to make a management of the coast not based on parameters of the XX century, but of the XXI century, incorporating the new elements of context, which are badly many of them to stay there. By the way, I make a falcon: look, if they have time – they will have a long time – the third report on the climate change that has been produced since the Catalonian Government with the leadership of the Council Advisor for Sustainable Development and see exactly what we are talking about with adaptation and mitigation policies. And then: establish a _marc, no longer only designed for autonomous Catalonia, but above all thought of a Catalonia that is able to assume all the competitions in that which directly asks the citizens. Not only because there is a legitimate right to do so, but because they do it from Catalonia themselves are able to provide a better service to the citizen and citizens of this country. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.104.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the situation of sanitation]] [[300-00127/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on the situation of sanitation, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Lord Santi Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.105.0	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Councillors, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, will allow me two preliminary considerations. A first is that I express my condolences to the family, friends and companies of the Popular Party of Tarragona for the sudden death of the mayor of Tarragona, the María Isabel Negueruela. The second consideration, which is already more related to the Councillor, is also to express the rebuff of our parliamentary group, we did it in committee, we did it yesterday in full – the deputy Juan Milián –, I do it today directly also, with the Councillor's presence, for these advertising expressions that we somehow understand to incite to violence with the Councillor's image. Therefore, our group's revival and solidarity in this sense. And we're going to the subject of the inquiry; it's not new, there's already been another one with the same... in a sense, it's what happens to the emergencies of our hospitals, counselor? I know you don't like the word col·lapse being used. I already explained to him in committee that this expression is what the same health professionals use to define the situation they see in hospital emergencies day after day. And I was also positively surprised – because, if you recognize that the situation is difficult, then we have already advanced something – that you yourself have also used this expression to refer to the situation that the emergencies of our hospitals are facing. There is a topic of debate, which is related to whether the problem originates from the epidemic of the flu. And, frankly, I don't think it's... I'm sure the influenza epidemic is helping to increase the number of influxes into hospital emergencies. But we are also convinced that this is not the main problem. There are other problems, probably more structural, and therefore, the flu, the influenza epidemic, is not the main problem. And the evidence is that the point at which the influenza epidemic occurred was approximately 12, the week of the 12th generation, and at these times, therefore, the epidemic has failed, not yet enough, still having the name of the epidemic, but it has failed in a quite remarkable way and at this time, therefore, there are hospital emergencies that continue to collapsing. The tension is maintained; the tension to emergencies is maintained. Some data has been cited in relation to the gene, but in the last five days we see that in the Valley of Hebron there are between eighty and ninety patients waiting to be read, with patients who carry five days to emergencies. This is an intolerable situation: five days in an emergency. In Tauli Park, which has also been mentioned, between forty and fifty patients pending bed; in Hospital del Mar, between one hundred and fifteen and twenty patients. But this was reproduced in other hospitals in the public network; it was reproduced in the Broggi, it was reproduced in Martorell, it is reproduced in Viladecans, it is reproduced in Bellvitge, it is reproduced in a bunch of hospitals in the public network, hospitals, some of them, it has also been said, that they still keep beds closed while in the past of emergencies, and not by decision of the nurses, counselor, not by decision of the nurses, there are still patients waiting for them to be assigned a bed, a room. You, at the end of December, the last week practically before the parties of Nadal, presented the integral plan of emergencies for the winter season, huh? , 2016-2017, which includes an allocation of 17_million euros, 1_million more than the previous exercise, in order to meet the needs that during this time it is possible to present to emergencies. And, therefore, I would ask, counsel, that you value us, in view of the results we have at this time, of what has been the degree of satisfaction of the councillor and the department with this comprehensive package of emergencies, given the results we have, and that they give us the impression that they are not very encouraging, because if we devote more resources than before and, in turn, the influx to emergencies is also superior than the previous year, I mean that there is something that has not just gone well. And then you, too, presented, last week, this campaign, "Do you think you need to go to emergency? , in some ways trying practically to dissuade the citizens who vagrate to emergencies or who at least are plantagin – as at least it is plantagin – if the pathology they suffer at that time requires attention in an emergency center or may have other lives of solution. And in relation to this, as well as, today, news is coming about the announcement of the plan, but it does not have enough staff or resources to attend to the needs that this advertising campaign may entail, we would also like to ask you what this campaign has entailed, beyond advertising, regarding human resources to the Medical Emergencies Service in order to attend to this 7_per_cent that you said there are more tricks in 061 doing medical consultations. Look, we know... one thing is available resources, but the other I think it's not so much... it's probably not so much resources... too, huh? - Sure. It's resource, there's a resource problem, but there's definitely an organizational problem, too, isn't there? And, in this sense, it was earlier..., they saw the analysis that the same department does, in which effectively 52_percent of hospital emergencies could have been resolved in primary emergency centres; 12_percent could have been resolved in primary emergency centres. Obviously, this is not the solution to the problem of emergencies, we understand it perfectly, because these are not the patients who are then waiting for bed in the past or accumulated in the emergency departments, but that helps, in any case, to relieve the workload of the professionals who have to suffer from the diseases. But I think we already have an important element, which has been repeated over time, and it is the fact that with good primary care we would avoid the gateway to the health care system being directly hospital emergency centres..., and perhaps, in a significant part of the city, these primary care centres. Therefore, first element, the reinforcement of primary care, and, therefore, also, I would say, the recovery, because there was already, the recovery of large hours of emergency care in primary care centers. Allow me to remind you, because sometimes we ourselves have done at some point call for the department to think about the role that pharmacies have to play in the public health system. And, man, I think it's also worth remembering now that we have three-thousand pharmacy offices, professional toilet papers, that there's a commitment from Parliament and the government to design what is the role they can play in the public health system, and, therefore, counselor, we would also like to know if it has progressed in this sense and how it has progressed. And, basically, this was, this is the object of the inquiry, isn't it? try to analyze what is going on, try to evaluate those measures that may be adopted by the Government or that the Government is adopting so as to try to deal with this situation, that we see, from the data, that this situation is not improving, is not correcting itself, and that is why we are concerned, and I am convinced that it concerns him... Miri, in the data of the later issue of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio, the citizens, therefore, expressed that that public service the function of which he was more concerned than he was given the answer was precisely the service of salvation, didn't they? So, we want to assess what's going on; we want to know what the advisor and the Health Department are doing about everything that's going on, and that's why we asked him this question. And allow me to end this first part by asking you, counselor, a favor: I did not speak to me either to reverse details or to infra-finance salvation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.106.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.107.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... thank you, Mr. Rodriguez, for all of it. I always say that I deserve it, and I often deserve it, and today I also deserve it; so I appreciate it. I'm trying to answer all the things you've said to me, and then focus on the important, that's to say complexity – because here's where we play the success in this war that we all agree to donate, that's the war to get our emergencies to suit patients properly – so the very high complexity of this demand that we have today's emergencies in our country. And, therefore, here we have to entertain ourselves for a moment. But first I answer the things that you've been saying. I don't like to talk about col·lapse, or the team doesn't like to talk about col·lapse, because precisely the professionals who are in the emergency, with their extra effort, would infer a lot in particular, are avoiding col·lapse. Those who are, if you want, are out of order, the emergencies; but the professionals are avoiding the col·lapse. Now, listen, I've served you before, because we won't have a semantic battle either. For what you're doing to the flu, you said it, it's true, we're entering a low epidemic level; neither can we give the question to solve, huh? Therefore, the epidemiological vigilance is maintained, it is kept active, but the forecast is that in two weeks in some regions of Catalonia we will already be in post-pidemic phase. All right, perfect. You said to me: "There are many the emergencies of our public system that this year..., this generation, above all the month of generation, above all the first week of generation, the week that goes between Cap d'Anny and Reis, which has been the hardest week for the emergency services of our public hospitals; therefore, these servants, who were overwhelmed. Yeah, yeah. We have heard, and rightly so, of the Sea, of the Tauli, of the Valley of Hebron. But you won't have heard of Sant Pau, will you? I poquet, poquet of the Clinic. And Bellvitge had some complicated time, but – I had the chance to go over it with my own eyes personally – from the moment they activated the new unit that they have activated, draining, they are the first ones to say that Bellvitge at these times is not saturated. What do I mean by that? That if we go to the analysis of the offer – that we have to analyze the demand in its complexity and the offer with which we respond to this demand – if we look at in the case of hospital emergencies, that it has to be a part of the answer, not the only one, with which we respond to this demand, we add that there are many factors here. A factor, that's structural. Listen, the Clinic has the worst structure, the worst structure for some emergencies – some emergencies in vertical, never seen; architectural limitations – and it has not gone especially badly. They've suffered a lot. Clearly, the structure is uplifting, but maybe not so much from the moment the clinic did what... There's a gift theme, we don't discuss it, there's a gift theme; the business committee insists on this, because it's part of the problem: gifting, seedlings– okay–, rations. And there is a very important theme of organizational model. And there are three different factors that need to be able to specifically analyze each of them. There's an organizational model problem. And Sant Pau is a hospital that looks at emergencies. And that's why Sant Pau's emergency data... all of it, look at the emergencies. And that's why Sant Pau's emergency data this year... listen, you've got a town assigned how the sea and the Valley of Hebron and the others can hold it, huh? It's not like he's got less than he's got, but Sant Pau's emergency data is better. Therefore, we also work, when we give an answer, on this organizational factor that is very important. The infirmary is not responsible for the passers-by. I never meant to say that. And, therefore, this is a matter that is already being clarified. And you were focusing on the question, saying, "They're doing the scale of the PIUC, now that we already have..., it's not over, the PIUC, eh? But now that we've got a first phase of the PIU overtaken, and so we could do a first balance. And precisely when we presented the PIUC in disembarkation, the first one we explained was that we understood that the multifactoriality, the complexity of the emergency demand today was such that it is not resolve with the PIUC. And that's why we said, "We'll strengthen the PIU. We expect an increase of 3_percent in the demand for emergencies and, in change, to the PIUC this million euros to which you have referred supposes an increase of 6_per_cent; therefore, we pre-emptively made an increase that doubled in terms of resources the increment expected in terms of patients. But, as we said, PIUC is the instrument we inherit from previous administrations, it's part of the solution, but it's an insufficient part of the solution, and so we're going to set up a national emergency plan that intends to think about the problem in its complexity. Why? That's why I've also explained repeatedly, because since the 14th year we have a record, we have a CMBD of emergencies with the specific concrete record that allows us to analyze the data in more detail. And that's very important to make a correct diagnosis. And with the National Emergency Plan, what do we want to hear? And I've talked to a lot of other actors who have come to me these days to talk about it. I remember a meeting, a few days ago, in the previous Ple, with the White Sea, here itself, in a room of the Parliament. I was trying to make them see, and I think that with this there was an important understanding on the part of them, that the changes that need emergencies are structural and, therefore, they are substantive changes and, therefore, they are not rapid changes. And if we want upcoming changes, they won't be fund changes. And if we want to change funds, they won't be forthcoming. And all those background changes that can be made from the first moment, we are making them: we strengthen the PIUC, the 061 – now we will talk a moment about the campaign – but there is a part of the changes that you have to see with the new abilities that we want to give to the primary network, among other things, that is not fan in two days. And with that we have to be honest, and I have to tell the truth. I think we'd be..., we'd better admit it all: changes in structural emergencies are not imminent and the upcoming changes are superficial. And if someone today says, "I want a solution of truth and I want them by tomorrow, it must be said that this, unfortunately, did not go so far. It's not like that. And who says the opposite, he deceives – he deceives. Why, for example, did you say: "Who col·lapses? It does not collaps the emergencies by the 12_per_cent it could go to the primary attention; this 12_per_cent has to wait and depart in the morning to see the header meth. It does not collate the care share of the emergencies, 52_per_cent, which could go to the CUP – and in relation to this I do not repeat what I have already explained in the previous inquiry, so I think we take advantage of better time – but in any case I have already explained it: with the CUP, indeed, this 52_per_cent of MAT IV has to have a network of CUP available and this means that we have to make portfolio and territorial planning. And that's where he's working at these moments. There are, in the past, in the emergency boxes, there are people who are penetrating, who are the other 36_per_cent. And what we have to work on the most, what's harder, is this 36_per_cent. How many people come in every year? Of the total emergency assistance, how many people need inputs? So, the middle is... – data from 14, 15 and 16 –, between 9 and 12_percent of urgent consultations end up needing inputs. So, here you have to work especially. Facilitating drainage, but perhaps, for example..., I will give you an example: and if we articulate the circuit in such a way that the CUAPs can be the gateway to the socio-sanitary? And part of the patients who need to get in are getting away with the hospital emergency, because if we give them more ability to take on this type of patient at the CUP, and we give them the CUP the right to go directly to the health care provider, can we do this process of derivation, giving more comfort and giving more ease to the patient? An example, of the type of changes we're thinking about at these times. In any case, the objective is not to deter the city – now I go to the issue of 061 – from doing no harm to emergencies; if we're not talking about this, no way; if the city does what it can. What it is about is to give it to the city more comfortable, closer and faster. When we do 52_percent of MAT IV could go to the CUP we do not do it to take off hospital emergencies, which we also do mainly to give to the city an alternative, to this city that has a need for attention not..., without vital risk, a faster, closer alternative, where they will resolve it with less time to hope and probably with more convenience. We're talking about this. But then, where we need to go, and I leave it for the second part of my intervention, it's the study of this patient that needs inputs, and very particularly of the hyperfrequency patient. Because 5_percent of patients who enter by emergency each year, only this 5_per_cent requires 18_per_cent of emergency resources. Therefore, this is where we also have a very specific repte, to which I will refer to the second part.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.108.0	Thank you, Counselor. The word has Mr. Santi Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.109.0	Well, thank you, counselor, for your answers. A couple of considerations, isn't it? A first is that surely the term col·lapse, which makes you, therefore, perhaps a little strawberry..., I think we do not fall into the Anglo-Saxon concept of col·lapse, which is much more radical, eh? , that the term llati, the Latin conception we have of « col·lapse, no? , more closely or more synonymous with'saturation than 'total fall of the system, which would mean in Anglo-Saxon terms. Second question. And you already know what I think of you and your plans, because you started the Legislature announcing plans and it is that at this stage you will finish the Legislature announcing every time more plans and few concrete measures – few concrete measures. National emergency plan. And, as I said, we're reluctant to plan. Miri, I said..., finished the first part of my intervention saying to him: "I did not speak to me about the reversal of detail or of infra-financing, because I knew that in the end we would end up on this topic, because, necessarily, you, at the end of your intervention, also... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I do want to talk to you about the reversal of the details, which you announce, and of the infra-financing, which you also denounce, because, in the end, the problem of funds that we have is also a problem of resources, because if we have repeated users in emergencies and users..., that is what really saturates or collapses the emergencies, those who wait for read, therefore, we must certainly make an effort of human and material resources, so that these hospitals, these centers in which they have read and are not used, can be made an effort to use them, especially when it is given in these circumstances. But, look, counselor, allow me to symbolize you which is certainly his problem. Miri, his problem is this map. [[The orator shows it.]] His problem is this map. No, they are not the primary emergency centres, nor are they the primary care centres, nor are they the emergency centres of the Catalan hospitals: they are the offices of the tax agencies. That's his problem. And effectively it's a problem of infra-financing, counselor – it's a problem of infra-financing. But from the infra-financing your government decides about the Department of Health. And you know perfectly well that this is so, because you announce us – and do it every time you can –: « Let's reverse the detail in a 37_per_cent. Account. Account, counselor – account. In this 2017 budget you will have 400_million euros more than your department's budget, insufficient to cover more than 1,000_million euros more than you spent in 2016, insufficient to cover the 2016 deviation. Therefore, it is not that you have much more resources in 2017 to meet the needs of sanitation, you have a little more resources to pay for the outstanding debts that remain of the past year, but we resources, it makes the impression that you do not have them. But it is more than that that another circumstance is given, which I gave him during his appearance at the committee: the pes of the Department of Salvation over the conjunction of the lower government, the Department of Salvation loses specific pes in the Government of the Generality, from 38.5_per_cent to 37_per_cent. There's only one in Guanyen. How would we open tax offices if it wasn't because there are other departments that win over? Therefore, infra-financing is due to the fact that salvation has not been prioritized in the assumptions of the Government of the Generality. And this is a responsibility of the government's joint venture; but of the government's joint venture. But, look, let me still tell you more: your government..., parliamentary groups come to terms with the UPC, which gives them support under these assumptions. Tell me how many more resources they dedicate to Salut, these additional resources? I'm telling you, zero. Yeah, zero. From this 0.1_percent of the additional deficit that you can make, which is 220_million euros, to Greeting you in absolutely zero. Look, counselor, there may be those who oppose the street with signs, and then vote for their assumptions. We prefer to show our discontent with the functioning of the Health Department, with the assumptions of the Generality, with our vote against. And we are convinced, counselor, that if you could, you would also vote against the assumptions of the Health Department. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.110.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.111.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Rodriguez, in strict order, let's say, of the comments that you've been making I'm trying to answer everything that... Many plans and few measures. Listen, let's tell him the name he wants, but a plan is precisely a set of measures, concrete, operational, time-bound, evaluable measures. Therefore, when we talk about plans, we talk about concrete measures. Presupposition. I left it in centers. And you already told me this in committee, it was, let's say, you did it for yourself, and I told you that I voted for these very convinced assumptions, because among other things they were accompanied by a political compromise on the part of the Department of Economy which is the following, which is..., with the awareness that the assumption of the Department of Health – I tell you the same thing that I said in committee – always, always, always has a deviation, which therefore has a specific account, which is known as the PPPs. And, therefore, what matters in the case of the Department of Salvation is not the initial premise, which is also very important, but the presumption deserved. And what we have to balance when we assess the Health Department's assumptions of the previous years is about the assumptions we deserve, which in the end and in the end is what the Generality has spent. There is a compromise that the pes relation – escort'm –, the pes relation of the Health Department's premise for what makes the presumption deserved of the total of the departments of the Generality will remain identical to the previous year. So, I'm not pathetic, the Health Department's fish won't go down. The Health Department's fish won't fall. I'll be able to prove it when we have the data from the liquidation of the 17th year's budget, when we know who the budget was worth and what part of that budget deserved went to the Health Department. In relation to resources. Yeah, they're short of resources. But when I say, "It's not just a resource problem, I'm saying it's not a question of increasing resources in the classic sense of the PIUC, and putting more of the PIUC, than maybe, but we just have to look at what kind of resources we need, that they would demand a presuppositional endowment, obviously, and it's probably the ones that will allow us to solve the problems that we're not solving right now. For example – for example – the specific care circuits for the oncological patient, for the patient with heart failure, for the patient with respiratory disease, here we have to put in resources to do new things, different from what we have done so far. For example, what kind of things? Full support teams to the complexity of the CUAP. We explained to you in your moment, you will remember, in disembarkation, when we presented the PIUC. And he said, "Look, and in this CUP de Casernes, in Sant Andreu, we have created a pilot, who is the ESIC, who has the will to stabilize a type of patient that until now the CUP did not take over and went directly to emergencies. And then there are some very important questions. Emergency and emergency committees in some territories work very well; so we have to extend them to the country's side, and that's a coordination issue. And then what do we have to do? Residences, we have to work the residences. We need to build facilities for residences that avoid entries that today come directly from residences. By the way, with a really disturbing weekly pattern, huh? Because they're more urgent when the doctor is less at home, which may be the end of the week. I mean, all these data we have I.D.s and that's what we need to work on. We have to work, as I used to do, on hyper-frequency patients. We need to work on what the primary will do for these people, because I don't care as long as..., no – no –, sorry, we're all very interested, but we don't care just what the primary will do with 12_percent of MAT V, or how we'll bring, thanks to 061, head to CUP this 52_percent of MAT IV. I'm interested in what we can do to the CUP and the primary for the other 36_per_cent, which is what at these times is watching these times of hope that all of us are desperate. And this is where we have to try to give a paper to the primary, but it's a new primary, if we have to train it to do that. Certainly, you asked me before, and I forgot to answer it, what an increase in resources has been made to the SEM for which you do the call service of 061. We have already explained it, to the press wheel of the campaign we have explained: how difficult it was to make a prediction about what would be the increase in tricks that the SEM will receive, there is an agreement that the SEM will ask for the resources it needs to take on the increase in telephone demand that came with the campaign's motivation. The SEM tells us: « At the moment, this 7_per_cent we have had to increase it we can assume with the expected effects until now. So, fantastic; when the EMS needs more resources, it will have them. I must say that I thank you very much – and this is the end of it – Mr. Rodriguez, who has quoted me as the CEO, because the CEO has given us a joy to the Department of Health, and it is that the Department of Health, this year, unlike what happened in the first year of the previous legislature, approves. For the first time in a long time, it didn't pass. The Department of Health, in appreciation of the citizens of Catalonia, approves. The first year of the previous legislature suspended. I believe that the trust of the citizens in our system of salvation is returning. And that's good for everyone, because it's a style to keep working. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.112.0	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you all very much. The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.113.0	It's part of the session. Very late in the day, all of them. First of all, I would like to say that, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral, of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes, has delegated his vote to the chairman of his group, Mr Jordi Turull, with an urgent reason for hospitalization. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the protection of public workers]] [[302-0004/11]] The fifteenth point of the order of the day is: Motion following the question to the Government on the protection of public workers, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word José María Espejo-Saavedra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.114.0	Good afternoon. President, thank you. Members, Members, Government of Catalonia absent..., thank you for being here, I don't know if you see us on television from your offices, but, well, in any case, we already knew that Parliament cares little. It's a demonstration. Look, the motion we tabled here today is very simple. In fact, I was talking to a Member right now and I was saying, "It's the truth..., yes, yes, we will vote for you..., but the problem is what to say, because it's so obvious... And I was saying to him, "Yes, you're absolutely right, but it's that in this Parliament you sometimes have to make motions with obvious content, because the reality in Catalonia is sometimes reaching some levels of madness that are impressive. The motion, as I tell you, is very simple. It is a motion which seeks to ensure, on the one hand, that the public employees of Catalonia are not put between the sword and the wall, and, on the other hand, to prevent the Government of Catalonia from acting, as hitherto, as the Government of a sick democracy – as the Government of a sick democracy; I quote illustrious people who have said the same words in this same Faristol. I believe that there is little doubt that at the first point of this motion, for surely – I do not know, his spokesman will now make it clear to us – the courageous Members of the Junts pel Yes Group will vote against. I don't know, I wish I was wrong – I wish I was wrong. Because they are not subject to Spanish courts or laws. Then, if they go to court, they say: « Your Honor – Your Honor – I was not aware that I was disobeying. I'm innocent. I'm sorry – I'm sorry. There was no record. I insist: I, and I say the same as the other day, from the most absolute discrepancy, of course, I have to re-evaluate the coherence of the UPC, which when they disobey they truly disobey. The separatist when he disobeys is that he truly disobeys. [[Some applause.]] And I don't share it, and I criticize it, of course. But it's consistent – it's consistent. Here it would have been good for the gentlemen of Junts to do the same in their case for Yes, but it seems that you do not, that you disobey only a little bit, it will not be that you incapacitate and stay, like some members of the government, without your official car, without your 100_000_euros a year, etc.. The curious thing is that you are not willing to go face-to-face and then pretend to force officials to break the law and risk their personal situation, to ordinary people with modest salaries..., which you do not want to lose defending yourself in a way that, in my opinion, is shameful. And then, as I said, the very same of a sick democracy – the same of a sick democracy: that the government urge officials to protest against justice to defend a politician of the government party – a politician of the government party. Look, officials can be independent or not, they can vote for Junts for Yes, they can vote for the People's Party, they can vote for the Socialist Party, they can vote for Citizens, or they can not vote, or they can do exactly what they want, and above all they can do with their private lives and their holidays whatever they want without the Government of the Generalitat being anyone... Thank you, counsel, for coming, a little late, but in any case you will be able to hear the last part of my speech. I was saying, in this particular case, that you are no one to tell officials what to do. Because, look, he has told the officials, that he considers it necessary that..., they have to go to a demonstration in front of the courts in favor of a politician of his party, the very party of the judgment of 3_per_cent, which I do not know..., the judgment of 3_per_cent, of the institutionalized corruption of 3_per_cent. So, I don't know if you will also consider it necessary to tell officials that they have to go to that trial..., to tell them..., I don't know in your case what I would tell them..., whether they condemn the corrupt or defend them. In any case, I don't think you have to tell them anything – nothing. [[Greetings.]] What you have to do is say nothing to the officials and let them do what they want with their life, which is what you have not respected: their private life. This motion is a motion that any party, except the CUP, and I understand it, although I do not share it, because it is consistent, can vote for it. And I think they should vote for it, because it only asks not to violate the law or interfere in the lives of officials. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.115.0	Thank you, Mr. Mirror. To defend the papers presented, has the word Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.116.0	Thank you, President. "It is the chance and the nuances that distinguish the hero from the suffering. It's always been that way. No violators and disobeyers we're still living in a feudal society. I've already forgiven you, haven't I? , this date is very little learned and very little orthodox. It's from a northern black novel that I read – I got used to reading the black novel after my step for the Pujol commission – and I got used to it just before I read the transcript of the question that you did 15 days ago, and it seemed to me that I forgot about the discussion that you had with the councilwoman, who played you two. Because I understand that they are the chance and the nuances that place them in each and every one of them defending the hero's paper or the evil paper, because with some other nuances they are perfectly interchangeable. In that debate, one and the other gave mutual feedback on their own defence before their hearing. And they do, I understand, imagining the complete raison d'être and using only part of the raison d'être. Please fill in your intervention, and you will see, for example, when every democracy exercise is attributed... You, counsel, consider democracy to be the sum of votes and it is already there. I don't know if I believe in truth – I don't know if I believe in truth. Do you really think that for the sake of having a small majority, it is possible to dispense in the name of democracy with what minorities think? Does that mean that this is not just one of the democratic instruments for resolving conflicts, such as the fact of voting, and not the concept itself? And you, Mr. Mirror, firmly affirm that democracy is the law in an immutable way. He's not convinced, either, is he? I'm asking, huh? Don't you think this refers to the state of law, that it is a consequence of democratic regimes, and not to the concept of democracy, that it cannot be another government of the people for the people, in all their different forms of doing so? And I remembered the quote: "No offenders and disobeyers we still lived in a feudal society. While the laws set up a right state, if they are unbreakable walls they can set up a right state of loss. And that's why they have to be more liquid than solid, to adapt to the characteristics of the society of every moment, as Bauman also interpreted. Look, it's obvious that both of them are right, but I suppose – I suppose – they'll accept that both of them have full tea. And until here we wouldn't go through a philosophical tertulia if it wasn't for demonstrating the democratic reason of each and every one of them to pull them permanently you'd work for the head. Look, you, counselor – I feel it, huh? – with the unfortunate statements in that interview that reminded him, that he did not just matise, but reaffirmed them. I imagine that it is based on what it means from a perspective of labor subordination that your head insinuates that you should take a party to defend a certain political position, for the sake of this position. And if it does, I don't know if it suits us that you're at the forefront of public service, honestly. That's why we're giving support to the second point of this young man. As you didn't say, as a well-known elephant hunter, "I feel it, I'm wrong, it won't happen again, it's the Parliament that asks me not to. But you, Mr Espejo, who put precisely this which I have just sent to the councillor, in which we can agree, in what we agree, from our perspective we understand that there is a space when you end up converting the motion into a text trap, in a text trap in which you want to make it clear that Catalonia will operate and that you will exclusively respect the Constitution and the Spanish statutory texts, which is the usual relationship that comes and that, under the appearance of democratic normality, indicates a worrying immobilism and a position that is as sectarian as the other. Miri, I didn't want your own job so much. Here too you are, I suppose you remember, that you must also obey, Mr. Mirror, and that when you enter into interpretative contradiction with other laws, for example what you think, we are not the ones that we have to say which is the correct interpretation, nor the government, and much less will you function. Justice will be taken care of, with better certainty. And in this sense, our goal. It is obvious that there is no need to dictate any type of instruction that contravenes the current legal order. Whatever it is, it's not what you say. And, of course, you don't accept this, because in the background, there's a certain kind of confrontation to satisfy your clientele. That's why he needs to hear that we're not voting for him, because it's an unpopular text that turns him into sectarians. And that is why we have also presented a third point, which seems to have accepted us, which I think makes the issue of the young person more just, which is the protection of public workers, because it calls for the recovery of the working conditions that are being dealt with while some of them are being used as a protective shield or as a combat weapon. Look, the best protection for the working class is that they leave them in trouble and guarantee the conditions of their work. Each one has the political ideas that he has, sure he can defend them without his heads at work orienting them and without opposing the safeguard from falling into sin. Believe me, they're big enough, and the public function is created precisely to avoid things like these: to ensure the functioning of the Administration in a way that is independent of the ideology you can have. There's no space now, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.117.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidal. In order to defend the papers presented for the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the word María José García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.118.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, for any advanced democratic society, political and partisan neutrality of the public service is an indisputable principle, as any Democrat in the world understands that officials, public services, buildings and public spaces are not government, are not at the service of the government. They are and are at the service of the people, of the citizens, because we pay them among all with our taxes. And since we are not all equal, we do not think the same, nor do we vote for the same party, and that is that we are in democracy, the whole public must be neutral, objective, impartial, in political and party terms, and they have it in article 103 of the Constitution and 71 of the Statute. Otherwise, public services at the service of the cause of power, coerced and classified officials in adherents and dissidents, public spaces politicized with partisan flags, is what happens in totalitarian regimes, which nullify and do not respect the freedom and political plurality of society. And it's very unfortunate, but all this sounds to us. Ideologicalized public services, such as education, which invents medieval crowns and aggravations, which neither excludes and excludes the Castilian and everything that sounds like cohesion with the rest of Spain; coerced officials, separated into adherents and dissidents, such as the pressures to institute directors on 9-N; the lists of judges that Vidal says he has already elaborated; politicized public spaces with partisan flags, we have it in schools, civic centers, roundabouts, children's parks, municipalities, fire parks, with its stellate, showing an abuse of power by the mayor, director or chief of shift firefighters. As you can see, totalitarian tics that are allowed, that are encouraged, by public officials who govern Catalonia at the service of the process. And it is that this whole process does not follow a democratic path. Quite the opposite. The abuse of power, institutional disloyalty, democratic shortcomings, fraudulent use in institutions, deception, trapping, do they remember 'astuteness'? , are the ingredients with which this Government and its acolytes intend to build a new country. This is often a new country, which has emerged from the abuse of power and the violation of individual rights. It has long been clear that officials are indispensable for all this, because officials move the public machinery, and if the public machinery does not follow their process it will remain in grandiose proclamations and office intrigues; people will see that all this is a story and turn their backs, back to their lives. And without people, there's no process. A year ago, we met a torticero report from the ANC to reassure officials, in which they were calmly asked for an absolute democratic fraud to try to transfer them, they said, legal certainty. The argument was as shaky as they had nothing to fear, because they would not be asked to act if they were not protected by legality, that is, not any legality whatsoever, the legality emanating from the Parliament of Catalonia, and this would be the rule of amparo. The problem – and all officials know that – is that, if this rule of amparo is unconstitutional and is annulled by the Constitutional Court, the only one competent to resolve conflicts of law, the rule of amparo, null and void, ceases to exist, and therefore cannot protect anyone. And this is already happening. With democratic normality, justice is acting against politicians who have acted outside the law: those who did not know anything or those who say they obeyed resolutions of the Parliament annulled. Because, in no rule of law can they live with two conflicting legalities. And that's what all the officials know. As they know, their duty is to act in accordance with the law, with neutrality in the exercise of their function. This is one of the ethical principles that must govern its performance, as stated in article 53 of the Basic Statute of the Civil Service. These ideas, essential to understand why the Government should refrain from asking officials to act outside the constitutional and statutory regime, we have proposed them as amendments to the motion. Finally, one last idea that we have also proposed as an amendment: Catalans, like Spaniards, have the fundamental right not to have to make public our political preferences. Ideological freedom is one of the pillars of our democracy. This right, guaranteed by article 16 of the Constitution, is above those who want to use the Administration for partisan purposes. We understand that it is more comfortable to know which staff members you can count on. Because the success or failure of the process depends on an appearance of success that encourages people, and this appearance of success depends on whether or not the apparatus that is the public administration follows the political slogans. We already understand that this is why it is essential for them to have submission, with the loyalty of the officials. But precisely for this – for this –, to protect the officials, to protect us all, we have the democratic guarantees of the rule of law, which will always act with the measure and with the strength that the circumstances require to preserve our rights and our freedoms. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.119.0	To fix his position, Mr Ferran Pedret of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.120.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, well, if we were able to cover for a moment the context in which this young man is present, modestly I think we should agree that the young man is over, superfluous, unnecessary. It is also obvious, for the interventions that have occurred at the length of this debate, that it is absolutely impossible to make this abstraction respect the context, and possibly not be especially recommanable, because we have the obligation to set our positions in a given context. Also, if we were to be able to abstract, for a moment, from this context in which this young man is produced, all the forces of the chamber, without exclusion, believe that they could agree on the content of which he is referring. Because it is not talking about what has been discussed, even though with little time, in this debate, it is a question of substance on the lawfulness of disobedience in the march of democracy, certainly imperfect, as ours, but it is talking so alone that a determined government, whatever it is, does not take instructions, orders, recommendations, or indications, when you work, that it can assume that it is contrary to the law in force. It is not valued whether you will work them in individual title can disobey or not what they consider opportune, it is asking the government not to take orders and instructions in this sense. Which it seems, say it, thoughtful and reasonable. In fact, I remember that, in the previous legislature, in the work of the referendum on the Law of referendums and other forms of civic participation, at some point in the debates there was the possibility that in the months you would function of the Generality of Catalonia. And, at that time, all the formations with parliamentary representation – all of them – I think we had the right sign, in keeping with the context in which the debate was produced on that law not to seek a solution of these characteristics; it is to say, not to put at risk, for a little while, the career of the officials and the officials, and the possible responsibilities that may be derived from instructions, orders that may be given to the government. In this sense, we believe that it is good to remember the need for public power to be not given instructions that may contravene the law, because they would certainly pose in a hugely complex and uncomfortable situation the many civil servants and public workers in our country. In the second term, it is asked the government to refrain from suggesting or instructing public employees about when to enjoy their holiday days or free will or what to use them for. Okay. Again this would sound strange if it were not that actually Consteller Borràs had to make a series of statements about the character necessary to attend a certain concentration or manifestation, and, asked about whether she would recommend going there, therefore, effectively said that why not. And not only that, but here, in his parliamentary office, he has ratified in these statements. We do not think that this should be the attitude of a public official, we do not think that it is the role of a councillor who is at the forefront of the public service of this country. And, therefore, it seems reasonable to me that from Parliament it is necessary that, at least in the future, since the past cannot change it, it is not reproducing situations like these. Why? So, because you're working on a special subject relationship with the Administration, because there's a hierarchy at the top of which, obviously, the president, but also the councilwoman, who's at the top of Catalonia's public office, and because it seems to me that effectively, as the deputy of Catalonia said, yes, it is possible, you're working and the staff of this country are well-educated to know what they can, what they want, what they need to do with their time. And, of course, it seems to me that it does, if that's what the group that proposes the motion for a resolution is all about, yes, it's Pot, it's about fears that it's true that we also discussed it in the previous plenary and that it was put to the vote, but I think it's always necessary to remember. And, therefore, in this sense, we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.121.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Next, the words of Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.122.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, we will not vote in favour of this proposal, I suppose it was already expected, but in coherence with what it was supposed to be, so I will try to give the reasons for this negative vote. We will vote not, first of all, out of respect; for respect for this chamber, which very often – too often, we believe – has been ignored by some parliamentary groups when they do not like it. I will not list the list of hardships that this chamber of democratic representation has had to endure when in the exercise of its sovereignty it has seen its freedom of democratic debate conditioned. And this freedom has always been – always – of the hand of the order that you so magnificent. It has always been and has been done precisely through that which deals with his motion– recommendations, instructions, suggestions, indications to work – or, at last, matuserament of the hand of ministers who have been given instructions, recommendations, suggestions, indications to work in the construction of monumental minds since the time of the state's locksmiths. Remember the Spanish phrase, so Spanish, of: "Do you make the law, that I will make the regulation? So, here we are. Romanes, principles of the past century. The truth is that they surprise us with theirs, this need they constantly have to make us swear the Constitution, and reminds me of the military obsession to make us swear the flag, and, of course, so we have finished some. Do we really believe that the words of the councilwoman are part of the real needs that so much you call that often speak of the functioning of this country? You, as much as you know the social realities of this country and the real ones, are you sure that this is the concern that exists in the collection of civil servants? As much as to be treated in a young man's room in this Parliament? We sincerely believe that no, that most of you will function, as has been said here, they know their rights and also their rights. And he will excuse me, but we think that the statements of Constable Borrás, although we consider them to be close to a partisan position, seems to us a banality to carry them in the form of a motion in this House. A banality and a disproportionate amount that we have already observed in his inquiry, with a long oratory talk about the workers in general and the workers of public office. Remember? « Those who raise the blind for 365_days a year..., etcetera. Those who, according to you, the government and some of the CUP, huh? , we call to disobey the laws; « those who sometimes – you said – « without the necessary legal training and immediately force them to decide whether to complete or not; « those who – you also said – will function « were used as a political weapon and as a political clamp. Look, all this melodrama that has been used in your inquiry to the extent that we see it contemplated in the motion that you presented to us today, and that the statements of the Catalonian Group Yes, it is able, therefore, to dignify it or to dignify it very much, especially at the first point, as at least there was a recognition of the sovereignty of this Parliament and the possibility of advancing it, and it is a long one that I do not want to accept. The third point, which refers to the rights of the worker, as has been said here, of the workers, is already a topic dealt with on various occasions and approved for this Parliament. Therefore, having placed him in this worthy young man, it is true, but he is, and if you'll allow me, placed with a shoemaker. The papers can improve the motion, but they cannot grasp the intent of the motion or the one with which they intend to present it. So, I'm talking drama, I'm talking about contributions, we think that the man you're chasing is nothing more than trying to put the democratic mandate of this Parliament under a pressure and a few parameters of permanent justice. They want to avoid the fact, that it is nothing more than a national awakening to Catalonia and a willingness to advance in their national and social liberation, generating pors, to which we, like the group, do not want nor are we willing to help them. I believe, sincerely, and allow my irony, that the mantra of the process, the one that you also talk about, has caught them and is affecting them badly. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.123.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Garriga. Next, has the word Lord Chakir the Homrani, in representation of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.124.0	Good afternoon, President. Counsel, deputies, and deputies, I will begin, because I think he plays, thanking the work of the workers and workers who are called public servants, who are the workers of the public servants of this country. I think he's got to be nice, and he's always got to be nice, the work and the efforts he makes. Beyond this beginning, if I may, is curious the willingness of some to put in the center of the political debate around the republic the public workers, since in the background it is a willingness to take away the political debate; when they stay, they want to take away the political debate; political debate they deny and refuse to address. But we will not enter this game: we have said this by active and passive and we will say it all the times you need. We will not at any time place the public workers and workers at the centre of the debate, we will at all times guarantee the legal framework and legislation, and this is policy responsibility and we will take on this responsibility, we are very clear. I believe that, unfortunately, not all of them have this clear and some of their objectives, if they allow me, is to press, to press the public workers with the speech of por. And I think it was very good when Congressman Garriga wanted to get this drama, because it has to get out, because in the background it's a strategy, and it's a very old strategy and, if I may, I'll focus on that strategy for a moment. I'm not talking about how there's primary emotion at the individual level, I'm talking about the phonemental mechanism of social control, like the passive eina, like the passive face of coercion. The socióleg judeoalemany Norbert Elias, in his work The process of civilization, writes: "Sense doubt, the possibility of feeling by, like that of feeling joy, is an invariable trait of human nature. But the intensity, the type and the structure of the pores that beat or cream in the individual do not depend on their nature, but in the last term they always appear for the history and the actual structure of relations with the other men. What do you mean, that? What's that supposed to mean? It refers to this mechanism, studied by sociologists, of social control from the point of view of pursuing a self-coaching process. And that's really what the public workers and workers don't deserve. They don't deserve their use. They don't deserve the will to generate..., to coerce them. They don't deserve it. That is why I reiterate our willingness to let the public workers do their work, to let this work, which they do very well, and to assume all the responsibilities of Parliament, we are very clear, to make it happen, for the sake of respect and for the public workers. From here on out, there's been a series of papers. And I shared the view that the first dream that made Catalonia Yes, it was Pot was a dream that truly gave meaning to the work that is done in this Parliament. Unfortunately, she was not accepted. From the third point, which you see, has been accepted, I think we have listened to everyone's interventions. I think we listened to the inquiry. Do you have anything to see? No, no, I mean, there's nothing to see with the guy we're talking about. In the last plenary we discussed and approved a motion of respect. The group we represent is very honest – very honest – with the public service unions in all the findings we have had with them, both in the particular findings and in the findings with all the groups. There were two of them this week, one a month ago, where unfortunately there were many groups missing, ours did not miss, and it went back to doing today, and we went back to saying: we will work and we will continue working to recover the conditions. And you know that, and we've been very honest. But do you have anything to see that we've been discussing? With this young man's political intent? There's nothing to see. And it's in this sense that we don't think he's going to "quite," if I may say so in this way, and we won't change our vote against a motion that the only one pursuing is to take away the political debate, that's what surrounds us in this Parliament, and place the debate in a reality..., in the reality of the public workers that aren't deserved. And I think we should say that. And lastly, I don't want to finish this intervention without paying for the work that the public workers of this country do and without paying for the work that their elected representatives, their union representatives, do, that they really are the ones that protect the public workers. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.125.0	Thank you, Mr. El Homrani. Next, in order to pronounce on the exams, has the word José María Espejo-Saavedra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.126.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as the Catalonian amendments are concerned, yes, we have accepted the third one; it is true that it does not have much to do with the way in which I raised the debate, but it is an amendment that makes and that, therefore, if we get it approved, it will be good. With regard to the People's Party, as I have already told the honourable Member, we can share the substance of the amendments, but we believe that they do not add value to what was already written and that is why we have not accepted them. Mr. Vidal, look, I've never equated democracy with law without more. I ask you to read or listen to my speech and you will see that I will equate to the law voted overwhelmingly by all Catalans. That's what I literally said. And, look, I don't intend to be right in everything – I don't intend to be right in everything – but in this yes – in this yes. And I tell you one thing: this neither cold nor heat, nor meat or fish in something as basic as asking the government not to give the officials illegal orders, I don't think it's going to go well. And another thing I want to tell you, too. In Catalonia there are no two legal systems, no; the laws that come out of this Parliament are laws of the Spanish legal system. Therefore, if you vote no or abstain from voting, you will be saying that it is not right for the government to make orders contrary to what is said in this Parliament as well. As far as the CUP is concerned, we know... I cannot devote much time to them either, because, in your opinion, the rights of officials do not deserve a motion, to bring a motion to this Parliament. You have said this: "You do not deserve a motion in this Parliament. Therefore, everything is said. And then, Mr. El Homrani, "defuge, what would you say. Well, I think that's what you did in your speech, running away from the debate. « Coercion, « fear, « social control, « pressure; that was what you said about us. Look: « I would find it normal and even necessary for public workers to have a party to support Mas. Coercion, fear, social control, pressure. Nothing more. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.127.0	Thank you, Mr. Mirror. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Vidal, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.128.0	For allusions and to ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.129.0	Thirty-second. See if it's true and we get it to be thirty-seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.130.0	Yes, yes, they will be..., it will be less, Madam President. No, to tell Mr. Mirror: yes, look, if it were true what you said, I should have accepted that the legal order in Catalonia is complete, which is what I proposed. If he didn't accept this, it's not true what you said here. In any case, he voted separately from the first point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.131.0	From the first point?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.132.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.133.0	Mr. Joan Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.134.0	Vote separate from the third point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.135.0	Therefore, we vote for all three of them separately. [[Pause.]] Mr. Mirror, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.136.0	Yes; for Mr. Vidal's allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.137.0	I hope Mr. Vidal doesn't come back, because, if not, these allusions can be a...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.138.0	No, no, they'll be very short – they'll be very short – President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.139.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.140.0	No, Mr Vidal, you are right that in a correct situation this amendment could be worth it. But since there are people here who maintain, precisely those who vote no, that the Spanish legal system and Catalan are two different things, I have not been able to accept it. It's for that reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.141.0	Let's vote on the motion, the three points separately. Okay... [[Irene Rigau and Oliver enter the Session Hall. Greetings.]] Let's go vote the three points separately. The vote begins. We're voting point number one. The first point was rejected by 48 votes to 64, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number two. The vote begins. The second point was rejected by 58 votes in favour, 67 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. The third point was accepted by... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's true. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You're right. No, you're right. You're right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Turull is right, and more so I was wrong in the two previous votes, because I had to add one more vote, because it's true – it's true – : Together for the Yes you have two delegated votes, that of Mrs. Assumption Laïlla and that of Mr. Gerard Gómez del Moral, who has delegated it by urgent hospitalization; I said so in starting this plenary session. [[Widow's remorse.]] He forgave – he forgave – the vote, before, of Catalonia Yes that is Pot, the delegation vote of Catalonia Yes that is Pot i dels Socialistes l'he counted it before. What's going on, I forgot to count this vote three times. So now, in this case, there's a tie, a tie 58 to 58, and, as you know, we'll repeat the vote, and then we'll let go of two minutes, we'll re-vote, and, if the tie continues, it's down. Okay? [[Pause.]] Therefore, we vote for the second time. The vote begins. The third point was rejected by 58 votes to 60, with 9 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the trilingual teaching]] [[302-00105/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on the trilingual teaching presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra. [[Pause.]] Thanks for going out in a hurry and quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.142.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. According to the later studies, 33 percent of families take their children to extra-school English classes. And 33_per_cent is exactly the percentage of people arriving at the university with a B2 level of English. This coincidence of data also coincides with the perception that most families and experts, such as Dr. Cristina Escobar, have when they say that the level of English that is given to Catalan schools is insufficient. On the other hand, we have to get the economically-advanced barrels to..., the students who go to schools in these centers to get more than two points more in English than the students who go to less-advanced barrels centers. We cannot talk about the success model of the Catalan school when, in one band, the majority of students arriving at the university do not have a B2 level of English and when, in another band, we have more than two points of difference between the students of one barrel and another. While the level that gives the school, in English, is not enough, the level of English will depend not on the abilities of the students but on the socioeconomic situation of their families. We want all Catalan students to have the same opportunities to see where they are and come from the coming family. It's not a question of ideology, it's a question of social justice. And that's why we presented this motion to try to improve English learning in Catalonia. We ask, first of all, to increase the endowment of the faculty so that we can reduce the ration. Secondly, if we want to improve the English level of the faculty, the first one we have to do is to improve at this level of English, with permanent training in both English and AICLE, and with the state of the teaching to speaking countries. In the third place, we need to provide all the public and concerted centres that we need, because we currently have a lot of assistants to the concerted centres and a lot of pockets to the public centres. And in the fourth place we ask to increase the programs that favor the learning of the English to the Catalan public media. This point..., said the same councillor to her inquiry, she recognized that she was not doing well in Catalonia; for this reason we have put it as it should. And finally, if we really want to do trilingualism in Catalonia, it is necessary that both the Catalan and the Spanish as well as the English and the Occidenty to the Aran are carried. Why don't you go ahead so far, that the families have to appeal to the courts to see their rights recognized, and then these families are left in a vulnerable situation before the settlement, as the Greuges Synod acknowledges in his report last week. And now I imagine that when the rest of the doorman comes out they will dedicate themselves to repeating the mantras that they always repeat and that I profit to deny. In the first place, there is no international academic study that validates the model of success of the Catalan school. And the most obvious proof is that I'm asking the department for it, and I can't quote a single one. There is also no proof that the Spanish level of Catalan pupils is higher than that of the rest of Spain. And, of course, the president has left, but it would be a good thing if you stopped saying lies in his parliament and in the television set, because it is that the proof of PISA in Catalonia is in Catalan, with which it cannot demonstrate the Spanish level of students, as he is dedicated to saying. And now he goes, for me, the most fun mantra, which is when they say, "Hey, Catalan students come out of school knowing Spanish. Clearly, most people go to school knowing Spanish; it is that at the length of history most people have never gone to a college and know how to speak one or more languages. It's not about knowing how to speak a language, it's about which level is that language. This explains very well a linguist who very much likes the Department of Education, which is Jim Cummins. And I say that they like them very much because I asked them on whose theoretical basis their model of linguistic immersion was supported, and they only sent me an article from this lord, an article from 1979, that I say it's time for the department to update its bibliography and read it above all, because it turns out that this article doesn't give the reason to the linguistic immersion system! Well, as this author likes them, I'll quote an article a little more recently, from 2003. And in this article he talks about the BICS and CALP competitions. In short: BICS is a more rudimentary level of language, CALP is a cult level. Catalan students, of course, come out of the school dominating a BICS level, but not a CALP level. And we want all Catalan students...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.143.0	Mrs. Sierra, I know it's hard, but it's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.144.0	... – I finish – we want all Catalan students to come out with a cult level of Spanish, Catalan and English. Because English is not the future: it is the present. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.145.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. To defend the papers presented, has the word Ms Esther Niubó, in representation of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.146.0	Well, thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, well, today we are discussing a motion that we consider very important, priority and I would say that it is strategic for the country, such as the promotion of better competition in angular language, and concretely in Catalonian schools. But let's not be fooled: this young man, translated into a proposal by Ciutadans on trilingual teaching, brings him together with little lead, especially for which he is pursuing a modification of the vehicle language of our education system. I'll talk about it right away. For a band, yes, we could celebrate the initiative, if you wanted to improve the skills of Catalans in foreign language; therefore, to increase the endowment of teaching in English, to encourage the unfolding, to reduce rates, to improve the formation of the teachers or to expand the places available in the Official School of Idioms. If that's all, we celebrate it, and we only celebrate it, but we share it and, in fact, we have contributed, modestly, reinforcing the text through the papers that we have presented and that we will gather. But he said that we have our doubts, because we think that what he is really pursuing is changing the vehicle language and talking about what they so much like to talk about in Ciutadans, about linguistic quotas, on the margins of educational and linguistic projects that determine the different centres in an autonomous way. And proof of that is that when we presented a statement at point 3 to guarantee a trilingual domain at the end of compulsory schooling, which includes catal, castle, English, and four languages in the case of the Aran, therefore, trilingual domain without touching and therefore, maintaining the vehicle language provided for by the LEC, this is rejected, and it means that what Ciutadan must be pursued is not to guarantee this trilingual domain at the end of the ESO, but the català ceases to be the vehicle language. And this surprise us, because in the same way that at the end of the public compulsory teaching with the català as the language conveys any student to Catalonia knows the castle perfectly, so he could also dominate the English if he progressed or strengthened the teaching in this language. He will say: "How? Therefore, I look, for example, through a better degree of both initial and continuing teacher training at all stages, especially the teaching staff who are called upon to do non-linguistic subjects in this language, and because, according to published data, they do not reach twenty-thousand Catalans who have a level sufficient to teach classes in this language, and therefore require an increase and improvement in the public offer of permanent training, especially the presence, that since 2010_has been very small. Secondly, to compliment Marc's goal for multilingualism, approved in 2013, which promotes that the centres provide a few minutes of curricula in non-linguistic subjects in English from primary to baccalaureate, and that is why, therefore, we need to enable resources. Or, thirdly, encouraging the inter-canvas and foreign states not only to teach, but also to study, and thus to take advantage of the programmes and opportunities offered by the European Union in this sense. All of this has been put on our desks, which have gathered in the transaction of Point 2, which we appreciate, and which we understand, therefore, that they do not need, to be promoted, the creation of a head office, that there is no need for a new branch, right? As Ciutadans would say, for this, but there is already a whole department responsible for moving in this direction. We also welcome the acceptance of our theme number 4, in order to increase the places available to the different official schools of languages of Catalonia, especially in the most solicitated languages, such as English, taking into account that there are many centers in Barcelones or in the Eastern Valley, for example, in which there is not even a 30_percent of the demand. And, honestly, we know that, apart from the essential efforts that must be made in the compulsory education system in this area, today, without reinforcing this learning by the non-educational way, extra-curricular way, so it is very difficult to guarantee the knowledge that the world of work or society today requires. And here we do want to highlight the need to ensure the adequacy of these special non-compulsory rule teachings to improve access, because since 2010, therefore, there are tax increases between 50_percent and 180_percent in some cases; this has meant that it is limited in the possibilities of many families to make lower, and what we do not want precisely is to deprive families of this linguistic domain, because if this happens, if this is deprived, what women are deprived of educational opportunities and job placements. And that's why we think it's phonenal to work to end the Bretxa that exists for what makes the English domain between the students according to socioeconomic origin, still very important, knowing as we know about the private efforts that many families dedicate, in the measure of their possibilities, therefore, to pay out-of-school classes or summer courses in English. And, therefore, with the exception of points 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3, which we ask to vote separately and which we reject, because we understand that they touch the vehicle language and the wrong right mind of the couples to choose, and that we hope, therefore, that they will not prosper for what they would mean by the immersion model, but that we will gather the other proposals intended to compromise the Government to strengthen the dominance of English in our educational system and that they will advance, in addition, in reducing the inequalities still existing and massive when we analyze the skills in an angled or foreign language. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.147.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. The words of Ms Teresa Vallverdú, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.148.0	Thank you, President. We have in front to debate a young man who presents us with a series of points that say they have as their goal to improve the English level of Catalan students. I have to say that as the objective seems absolutely commendable, and I will say that we share it absolutely, but we also believe that it is a partial view of the linguistic needs of the current Catalan society. We live in a society every time more complex and, consequently, every time more multilingual, and this society into transformation must bet for the domain of different languages. The education system must aim to train multilingual speakers who can interact in this complex linguistic and cultural context and who have a linguistic domain that favors them in academic and professional settings. But we faced this young man with a constructive spirit, despite the obvious and observable differences that the group that presented the motion and what I represent have in questions affecting languages and, above all, in which language should be the vehicle of teaching in our country. We were going to present two papers. One, at the first point, because we consider that the autonomy of centers is what enables them to decide which system is the most appropriate to improve the level of students' English and that it is not through a young man in Parliament where they are told how to do it. We tried to negotiate, but we didn't get out. We presented another theme at point 5, which has not been accepted either, because it seems important to us that public communication means should be used to improve the level of foreign languages, but we wanted to highlight the fact that since 1987 all series and films in the media of the corporation can be seen in original subtitled version, and not only in English. Since 2014 also the telenews issues the unfolded, subtitled statements; this season there was the cinema cycle in original version subtitled 33 every day on the evening; there is the presence of angled language in children's and young people's programming since 2011, and there is published in open space the programmer to visualize the subtitles in the European standard for connected television. I mean, it seems to me that he gives it importance and that he gives it a lot. For what he does in training, there are multiple activities with high participation of the teacher to improve his proficiency in language and to train them to teach non-linguistic subjects in English. And places with free enrollment in English courses for teachers at official language schools and at the Institut Obert de Catalunya. There are interchannels and teaching stages in language-speaking countries, which are mainly promoted through the European Commission's Erasmus+ programme, with economic aid to the education centres for foreign language training, educational cooperation projects, innovative practices, exchange of good practices... And the Department of Education provides training, advice, and ongoing support to centers that have help or want them. The follow-up of the evolution of each student's English level during compulsory secondary education is also carried out through the evaluation sessions, which are the instrument to evaluate each student's learning in relation to each subject and to follow up their learning process in the course and to the next course. We don't see why a tutor for a specific matter. About conversation assistants, it's also coming to an end and it's a formula that already works at the Hospitallet, Sabadell, Castellar del Vallès..., and it's planned to do more to look for complementary formulas to the Conversation Assistant Program and university students from other countries that acquit the educational centers. For what it does at point 6, which has been added through a slogan of the Socialist Party, we have to say that official language schools have vacancies in various languages. It is true that the Englishman has more difficulties, but this has not ended up feeling the issue in the House. And there's point 4, which is, as we hear it, the center of the young lady. He proposes a language model that considers the Catalan, the Castle and the English to be vehicular languages, more than the occident in the Aran, with a minimum of 25_per_cent for official languages, and asks the right of the parents to sort the language of their children's schooling. Contradiction to stop the linguistic immersion system, which for us is the right one, because it guarantees the knowledge of official languages and clearly exercises cohesiveness of society and guarantees equal opportunities. I don't think I'm wrong if I say that the rest of the points have been laid as far as they are concerned, to make this central point more payable. A young person without this education should bear in mind that there are other foreign language curricula apart from English, more than the multilingual orientation in language learning. It can facilitate the domain of other languages and spread and maintain the language of origin of the new student, as an element that enriches us and as an opportunity for the students who speak to them, in a Catalan society that is open to the world. Plurilingualism, therefore, to the teaching, and the Catalan language, as to the language of cohesion. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.149.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vallverdú. The words "Mrs. María José García", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.150.0	Thank you, President. Advisers, advisers, ladies and gentlemen, no one is discussing the importance of languages in academic and personal training. It is not just a matter of opportunities, it is also a question of being able or not to be a full part of the world in which we live. That is why we agree with Mrs Sierra's approach in her question and in her motion, and that is why we will support the points she proposes, to which we have contributed - I have tried to give - some concrete expression, such that in all public centres English is introduced progressively until it is immunized in a subject at the end of primary school; that in secondary school a second foreign language is introduced, and that at the end of ESO the immunized presence of English is equivalent to that of the official languages. Yes, we are surprised that the councillor takes out the general knowledge of English from the public, because we don't know what you can aspire to with a better basic rudimentary minimum level of English. We do not understand how the proud counselor can be that more children have a basic knowledge of English, which will not be useful to them, unless their parents invest, if they can, in classes, colonies, trips, exchanges that improve these rudimentary English knowledge of the school. And we're back to equity. Those who have the means will truly learn English and those who do not will be left with the rudimentary English level of the school, with which they will not be able to compete or access the same opportunities. And the differences are already seen in the PAU notes. We know of cases of brilliant students of the public penalized in the note of access to the university for a discreet result of English. If we care about equity, we have no reason for satisfaction. Conversely, we must be very concerned about the starting inequality that represents the low level of English in the public. Because precisely who we have the most to take care of is who has the least means, so that public education gives him the opportunities that his family cannot give him. We must especially protect the rights of the most unprotected, and that is why we have recorded other amendments that we have now explained. Well, we thank Congresswoman Sierra who has accepted everything. To begin with, we are curious, speaking of rights, to discuss the guarantee of English in public education when the official languages are not guaranteed, especially the mother tongue of more than half of the students, being the official language. Catalans have the right to education in Catalan, in spiders, and we also have the right to education in Spanish. And there is even the right for parents to choose the official language of schooling for their children, in which they will learn to read and write. And these children have the right to have the other official language introduced progressively until the balance, which is the linguistic conjunction, is the model of the Language Policy Act of 98 that this Parliament adopted. We have explained this many times in this plenary session, we have read the sentences that make it explicit and protect these rights, starting with the ruling of Constitutional 334/97, which does not endorse immersion, but rather the linguistic conjunction, which can gravitate towards the official language with less territorial presence, but never excluding either Catalan or Castilian as languages of instruction. Everyone knows that the Generalitat has lost all the lawsuits for imposing immersion. All parents who have claimed their children's linguistic rights through the courts have won. Even the Generalitat has had to compensate for damages to those who have requested it, but they will recognize that it is very painful for parents to have to defend themselves, by investing their time and money, from an arbitrary and unjust government that does not even respect the laws that he himself approves. Neither the Law on Linguistic Policy, nor the Statute, nor the LEC, any Catalan law protects the exclusion of Castilian as a vehicle. And yet, this exclusion is the basis of the Catalan immersion model, mandatory and universal that the department applies. It is particularly outrageous that it is minors who do not have their guaranteed linguistic rights in Catalonia, and more so in an area binding on them, such as education, that the Administration which should protect them will violate their rights. It is shameful that we live in a society that harasses families that defend the rights of their children and that since the Generalitat this mockery is not prevented, nor is it prevented by protecting the identity of these families, as we have unfortunately seen in Balaguer. We believe that freedom should be normalized. And it would be as easy as the Generalitat to start by guaranteeing schools, at least bilingual; with a minimum presence of every 25_per_cent official language so that parents can choose normally. It is difficult to understand that a 25_per_cent of the Castilian harms the Catalan, but a 50_per_cent of English, no. We already know that the excuse for everything is linguistic projects, center autonomy... But just as the counselor would not allow centers without math classes, she could avoid centers where the Spanish is forbidden in the courtyard and excluded as a language of teaching; because, counsel, so illegal is one thing like the other. Thank you very much, Counsellor, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.151.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Next, to fix his position, has the word Jessica Albiach, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.152.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Counselor, the first of all was to give thanks to Congresswoman Sonia Sierra to table the theme of English, which we already know is a pending assignment to our public education system. In fact, the counselor commented on it when she appeared to the Teaching Committee to discuss this issue. The councillor said that there is a part of the student who does not take advantage of the skills in English, that there is a margin of greater significance in the learning of languages and, moreover, that the results of the external tests of basic skills show that, while it has progressed, it is true that it is slow and that we need to improve, and much. It is necessary to advance to primary school, secondary school, to educational centres in general and to high complexity in particular. Because, in fact, the average of the tests of basic skills does not go up in any case to seventy-five points, which would be a good result. At the time of embarking on bilingual teaching..., plurilingual, forgiveness, and, in concrete terms, the learning of English, we need to think of three essential factors: the first would be the methodological approach, which cannot be another but the recreation of real contexts – and this is already beginning to do –; the conditions in which it is to be spread – and that means centre autonomy, teaching resources and benefits to the classrooms that are to be lowered yes or yes – and the third would be the formation of the faculty. These three points are certain that they are collected from the Member of Parliament, Sonia Sierra, who is presenting them to us, but it is certain that they require a better funding that we believe has not been collected from the teaching assumptions that we have now for the next course. That said, add that we would vote against point 4, which, if we didn't like it before, with the slogan of the People's Party, still less, since it speaks more of quotas and, moreover, what it does is to surprise the linguistic projects of the center, which have long been consolidated and that they work well and, moreover, are starting from the autonomy of the center that we defend. Therefore, we need more resources from the department for multilingual teaching. And at the same time say that we will vote in favour of everything that is raised seriously in favour of teaching English and any other language, but we will not enter the game nor question the immersion model or the autonomy of the center. We believe that the Catalan must continue to feel the vehicular language of public education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.153.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Next, has the word Mr. Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.154.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, to say, then, that we will vote against the approval of this motion. I must say to you, Mrs Sierra, that at some point we had doubts about the possibility of voting in favour of some of the points of your motion more clearly aimed at improving the provision of staff resources or organizational improvements to improve the learning of the English language in our public centres, but I have heard your intervention, sincerely, in that, in the end, the decision that we are about to vote globally against the motion is the right one, sincerely. Another previa, a good news: recently, very recently, the Valencian Courts, by the way, have approved an initiative according to which they recognize that Catalan and valence are the same language, they are two different ways of speaking the same language; it seems that we begin to come out of the dark times. And, in this sense, I want to quote the reference of a Member of the House of Commons, if I am well informed, who said that she valued herself very much the valence she is speaking to Girona, that she is speaking to Reus and that she is speaking to Maó. Following his inspiration, then, I will enter into the motivations for which we will vote globally for this motion. We continue to defend immersion as a reference in language learning, as a teaching of quality and as an integrative and cohesive model. In this framework, effectively, it is necessary to improve the teaching of languages and to provide it with more and better resources in public educational centres. So the answer is yes; but not to the detriment of Valencian language, nor using this proposal to question linguistic immersion. The Valencian language that continues to drive in our schools, as it is official and our country's own. This fact which has been accompanied, indeed, by the proper learning of the rest of the languages which our public teaching incorporates, including, naturally, the occidentity, that to the Aran it is the language of vehicle and immersion in the teaching. We still find ourselves at the end of the objective, which is ours, that valence is the common language of communication between the various linguistic communities of our country and that the opportunity is in the Aran. In a country that tends to be formed by a mostly multilingual population, only a language – this is an obvious, obvious fact – will perform the function of being a language of social communication among people with different mother tongues or communities. Our proposal, and this is a political objective, seems to us to be legitimate, is that these languages are valence and occident in the respective national territories. We think that the public teaching should contribute effectively to this proposal and this reinforces even more the need for courage and occidentity in the following vehicle languages, meaning doubt. We share, therefore, with the young man such a time the objective of improving the learning of languages in our schools, including English, and, therefore, of improving its endowment, resources, etc. But frankly, and for this reason we will vote against this motion, we do not believe that its proposal is the most appropriate one. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.155.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the lady Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.156.0	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I want to thank the effort to negotiate the transactions of the three bidders. At the end, we couldn't reach agreement with Juntes for the Yes; at the first, because he wanted to decafeate our proposal to allocate more economic resources to teaching, and the second is that I was very surprised, Mrs. Vallverdú, because it's no longer that they don't listen to me, that they don't listen to me when I speak, it's that they don't listen to the counselor. It was the counselor who said that this topic needed to be improved. Look at the transcript, since he didn't listen to us both, look at the transcript. Then, both the PSC and the PP, more or less I have accepted them all except those that do not fit our program, because here, obviously, we cannot give in. Mrs Niubó, I have already said that they speak Spanish, but BICS and CALP skills; here is the key. They don't know how to talk, they know they know how to talk. Then I love the new speech that here we are multilingual, I mean, like, a chulery... not level B2 d'anglès, but we are multilingual. Now, I've asked the department in which languages, as a teacher, where they have formed, which title is asked. Not an answer. Let's go on without knowing who this multilingualism is, when we don't even know English. Then, on the subject of auxiliaries, Mrs. Vallverdú, but if I've already told my question, she didn't listen to me. It's that what we don't want is the Hospitallet having, and not the rest; certainly, Castellar and Sabadell are looking at it, but they're not doing it yet. And the concerts, too, but we want you to go to the public. It is here; we want all students to be equal; you already know that no, but we do; each has its own point of view. Then, you say that it is the most equitable system: more than two points of difference between one bar and another, and another, that also serves for the lady Niubó: the students of all socioeconomic levels – of all – get worse results at PISA if they are Spanish-speaking than Catalan speakers, and I don't say it, I said it – the Jaume Bofill Foundation, a little suspicious of being from Ciutadans. Mrs. Albiach, the català must be a vehicle language, and so must the català, the Spanish and the English. It's about adding up, not subtracting. For what Mr. Riera does, Mr. Riera, to see, "immersion is not immersion, if you are Catalan is not immersion: it is a monolingual system in your mother tongue; if it is no longer the advisor says immersion, if it is more ancient than teletext! And then I'm not surprised that they're voting against us, because you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.157.0	Mrs. Sierra, I know it's hard but it's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.158.0	...are absolutely conservative on all these issues. I was hoping for the vote against. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.159.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Mrs. Niubó, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.160.0	For a separate vote on points 4.1, 4.2, 4.3. For us it can be done together, but... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.161.0	Separate votes have been requested on points 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3, which have said that they can be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.162.0	We also ask for a separate vote from point 4.d.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.163.0	4.d.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.164.0	Yeah, all of point four, let's go.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.165.0	All right, all right, all right, all right, all Then we will vote first points 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3 together, after 4.4 and after the rest of the motion. Do we agree? [[Pause.]] So, let's start the vote. We vote points 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3. The vote begins. Points 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3 were rejected by 33 votes to 96 with no abstentions. We will then vote on point 4.4. The vote begins. The 4.4_point was rejected by 49 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Movement on Trilingual Teaching was rejected by 58 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into prison equipment in Barcelona]] [[302-0106/11]] The point of the order of the day is: Motion following the question to the Government about prison equipment in Barcelona, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose it, has the word Lord Jordi Orobig. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Please, I'm in a hurry and I'm quiet because we have to continue the session. Thank you. [[Pause.]] Please, Congressman, start whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.166.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. MPs, MPs, well, in the first place they'll let me have a record for my escho companion in Gerard Gómez del Moral, who was supposed to defend this young man on today's day and who, because of a medical unexpected, therefore, had to abandon us. A short while ago, I had the opportunity to talk to him and he told me that he had already done the pre-op and that he would soon be speaking. In the measure of my possibilities, and I am aware of my limitations, I will do my best, therefore, to defend it properly, since I understand that at the level he showed to the inquiry that he had a place in the past plenary, so it obviously costs a lot to get there. That's the fact, isn't it? This fact, which is certainly not a dish of anyone's taste, allows me, sincerely, to say, and in this case will allow me, therefore, in this case triviality..., to do my big week: in the same week we have been able to approve the Law Project of the Book of Justice and, happily, if everything ends as it seems to end, then we will have a large majority of Parliamentarians to agree precisely this, which was the will at its time of the Department of Justice, which was to proceed to the closure of the Barcelona Prison Centre, the Model, and to do it in some conditions that are not only for the internals, but also, in this case, therefore, legally, for all those who are normally working in public that they are working on their own work. I believe that with this action there are only better for everyone. I believe that there is already a collective consciousness, which is demonstrated by the consensus that I believe that it will soon be evident, that the regime, the provision of services, the regime that the internals of the prison center of the Model were not the appropriate one for the standards of time in which we find ourselves, that in any case we are not talking about how we are going to follow or proceed, as is the case in the agreement between the department and the Barcelona Assembly, with a new center, but that logically the center of the Model required a lot of investments to solve a minimum standard of quality, if I do not recall it, with an import of approximately 20_million euros, and we understand that the right, as we are underwritten, only insists on the principles of personal knowledge of the cases. And here we are, as I believe we can appreciate when expressing their different views to the parliamentary groups, which I understand are the protagonists of improving the proposal initially put forward by the group proposing the motion, and therefore, obviously, also improving the working conditions of the staff. And thirdly, and I believe that it is also very important to give an answer to an immemorial petition from the city of Barcelona, as old as the opening of the Model centre, that is to say, 1904, that it is the fact of releasing a very important space from the city of Barcelona, that this can give an answer to the demands of the past, to the equipping of us in all spheres, as my partner Gerard expressed; therefore, in the educational field, in the school area, in the civic sphere, to give an answer to the needs, in this case, of the Barcelona society, and, in this case, more concretely, to the requests that also from immemorial time have been maintained from the Association of Vescras de l'Esquerà. In short, we understand that the approval of this motion in the terms as it will be definitively... We started from a motion that, we understand, satisfied all these aspects derived from the confinement of the prison center, but the one that is certainly, that there has been a special incidence, for the different groups, to look to improve this young one, making special emphasis on all the consequences that they have to see in a fundamental way with all those fears that can arise for all those people and collectives that in a justified way, with such a transcendent change, can hear the threat of their life style, their style of work or, in the end, the normality in which we all yearn to develop our daily life. But, I insist, I am convinced that the agreement resulting from the motion that will be approved today and the burden that will be placed on the Government, which is in coherence with the agreement on its day signed with the Barcelona Assembly, can only have positive consequences for all applications. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.167.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Orobtig. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word Rosa Maria Ibarra, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.168.0	Thank you, President. It must be by way of presentation of the papers...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.169.0	Exactly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.170.0	Thank you. Well, counselor, deputies and deputies, members of the unions that accompany us today, the motion that presented us to the approval of the Group of Joints for the Yes in the original text was very simple; they say to us: "We are closing the Model in 2017, that no worker did not lose the job, that is built the center opened to the Franc Zone and why it is possible to close the Trinitat Vella. That's what the original text said, short and short. It was very simple, we have already said; it was too simple for a reality much more complex than it is now with the lock of the Model's men's prison. In this sense, our group is clear that the Model is to be closed, because the conditions in which the centre and the investments are, possibly, that should be done to improve these conditions, so they are really very large, and therefore we understand that it is to be closed for this state as well as for the needs and the demands that the city of Barcelona has historically made of this space. But we can't say that the Model is so tight and it's already, and it's already finished, and it's easy; it's not that, especially because the Model isn't just a building. There are, therefore, approximately nine hundred people living in the Model, of whom around seven hundred are pre-emptive prisoners..., and where they work, if I don't have it wrong, 447 people. Therefore, the Model's unnecessary closure is no longer a complicated situation for all these people, because it changes their living conditions, as much as they see them as they are going to work with them. It is not the same going to work, if you live in Barcelona, on the street Understand, that going 'to work, therefore, to another prison center outside the area of Barcelona. This is without talking about the families of the inmates, and the people who work with the inmates of the prison, who legally assist the inmates of the prison Model, and, therefore, that they will also have to do so, in this case displacements. Therefore, we could not accept the motion in this way that it was planted, and that is why we presented a series of papers that go in the line that it is written or that this project of construction of the prevention centre of the French Zone, that while you are not building this prevention centre is given a series of conditionalities basically guaranteeing that there would be no loss of place of work, neither of staff will work, in any case, nor of those who are working, of the people who work in the Model, nor of the other penitentiaries where they are reallocated, therefore, the internals of the French Zone, and, therefore, also of the staff who work there. We demanded that an immediate negotiating table be convened with the representatives of the workers so as to agree on all the extremes that will entail this closure. Also, the necessary means are provided to enable the families of the inmates to access these prisons without difficulty where the inmates are reallotgin in the time they spend from the Model lockdown to the construction of the new prison in the Free Zone. And that's a guarantee to internally displaced people that they'll always be at home... the closest to home, and that they'll see these means so that families, as we say before, can have fluid communication, just as they wouldn't have if they were at the Model. And lastly, we also asked him to agree with the professional colleges, especially the ICAB, so the media so that the lawyers can do their assistance in a way, let's say, fluid and no problems, right? , it was already for video conferencing or other media. We see that the literality of our proposals has not been accepted, but I understand that with the willingness to agree with the other parliamentary groups, and I know that this has been done, let us say it, is the hope of these ideas that we have presented, and, therefore, our idea, that it was: we do not deny the need to close the Model, it is true, but this cannot be done in any way; it has to minimize the impact that this will entail and is to prejudge the construction of a new centre in the French zone. That's why our contributions, which we understand have remained, let's just say, are reflected in this text, and that's why we will give our recollection. We appreciate the willingness of Juntes for the Yes, therefore, to be able to talk about it and to introduce the papers. Also to Congressman Gómez del Moral, who has had this little problem; let's hope he's recovered soon. And also to all the other parliamentary groups, with whom we have been talking about this subject in order to be able, let's say, to finish making a text that I think will reverse the necessary conditions because it is so the Model with sure guarantees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.171.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ibarra. The words of Mr. Joan Giner, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.172.0	Well, very late, President. MPs, MPs, today we see, as always, or when we talk about prison centers, a very complex world and a situation that brings... that needs to be seen with perspective to hear what we're doing here. If we're talking about the model's lockdown, we're talking about an association of veins that's deep during the franchise, that some members of the public are accompanying us today, that already called for the recovery of the space and denounced the unhealthyness of this space between the prison center. An association of veins that even claims that there is a care center for the treatment of autism in an area that must, and will, hopefully, be recovered for the veins of Barcelona. At the same time, if we see the Model lockout from the inside, what we find is a centre that does not guarantee – and this is a consensus of society – the human rights of prison centers. It is a reality that we have to assume and that is why we have to move forward in the construction of a new prevention centre near the metropolitan area, in concrete terms, to the Free Zone. If we see it from the inside point of view, closing the Model is a guarantee of improving its situation in cells and during its deprivation of liberty, remembering that, in the end, the punishment is deprivation of liberty and not evil among Catalan cells. Which, in the end, from the point of view of the interns, we also find their families, and here we see a penyora... – that's why we're talking about a complex assumption – a penyora in the hour of seeing how these families will move to the centers that are further away today to visit the interns. That's why I want to guarantee, and it's an issue that we... we wanted to defend and we put public transportation and help, because as many workers as the family members of the interns can have all the facilities they can to access to visit the interns. We also talked about videoconferencing or working because there's videoconferencing with interns because there's legal support. And, at the same time, we believe that this model sealing plan, at the same time, the locking of Trinitat Vella's open centre, we believe that it is positive for two factors: in concrete terms, the first, we need to equip the Trinitat Vella's equipment for social housing, and it is an initiative that the Joint Assembly is bringing forward and we believe that, as it is now, the situation of housing is very necessary, and, at the same time, we need to equip the Free Zone of this open centre with the quality of the internal ones. Last but not least, we don't forget Wad-Ras and the women's prison. We believe that what is needed in this case is to build a prison in the Free Zone that is preventive, but it also has a gender perspective, so that we can adapt the life cycles of the inmates to their deprivation of liberty, which is also to respect human rights. In change, we can focus this view from the point of view of the workers and the workers who are currently in the Model. That's why we think it's absolutely necessary– and that's where we've put ourselves to the point, that we didn't see it clearly and that it was too simple for the complexity that we're dealing with–, because there's no loss of purchasing power or complements, the complements to work in the Model, of the workers and workers, and at the same time that it's a union table immediately that allows the fact of being able to move or to move these workers to other centers, with the firm compromise that no worker... – neither will work, nor interested –, no worker related to the prison center of the Model, even though it's not from the Department of Justice, I didn't lose his work or his working conditions. It really brings us to a point of the naked, a point that we have not seen clearly and that we believe that we have to put on the table and we have defended on one of the items, that we appreciate that it has been accepted, that it is not possible to do this on television advertising, it is not possible to do this at the time of a pin or a medal. Cal, first of all, to lay down a plan for the restructuring of prison centres, of the prison system, to do things rigorously, because we are dealing with a very complex issue – not rigor, sir counselor –, to do it rigorously, because it is affecting the lives of many people, of many internals and of many families, so we have demanded that in the end there be a complete and rigorous plan for the restructuring of the prison system in Catalonia. If we want to start big changes, we also have to make them responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.173.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Giner. Next, the words of Mrs Carmen de Rivera, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.174.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, all the union representatives who are here this afternoon, and the staff of the Department of Justice, also here, Members of Parliament..., this afternoon we voted on a motion that speaks of a matter that has been being discussed here in Barcelona for more than thirty years, which is the closure of the Model. It must be said that the motion initially tabled was not going to be approved, since, although it contained the main and priority question of the closure of the Model and Trinitat Vella's centre, it left aside the main questions that the adviser himself had pointed out timidly, that is, in his response to the inquiry, but which were not contained in the initial motion. Key issues such as: What about the staff and other staff working on the Model and where are they going to move them? Will the closure of the Model and the consequent distribution of prisoners by the various prisons in Catalonia and the forced relocation of Model officials mean the loss of employment? Will the wage conditions of these workers be respected? How will communications with the lawyers of these remand prisoners be arbitrated, let us not forget, that they are not yet being tried and that they need more than ever to speak to their lawyers and go to the courts? Will the conflict increase right now, which has already been a serious incident with the transfer of prisoners? Have you been informed? It seems that there are prisoners who are worried because they see... that they are here in Barcelona and they are far away from their family. And the final question: what will happen, will the Generalitat of Catalonia build a new center for prevention in the Free Zone or not? Or do you intend to amortize a prison in Barcelona? The first days seemed to be, it has been clarified over these days when we have dealt with the motion. And all these questions not only are asked by us as Members of Parliament, but also by the trade unions as workers' representatives, by the neighbors, by the relatives of the prisoners who have..., who are in the Model, and by the inmates themselves, who, let us remember, are not penalized, are preventive. Because there has been a lot of announcement, because there has been a lot of movement in the networks, but here, in the Parliament, apart from three_minutes in the budget session and the Councillor's response to Junts' inquiry for Yes, there has been no further explanation. We worry because we also see a bit of improvisation, I don't know if with electoral intentions of Esquerra and Mrs. Colau with the commons, but we see a bit of improvisation and here there are people's lives, there are many people who have their salary at stake, they have their job at stake, they have the power to see a family member and visit him. Turning to the explanation of the amendments and much of the amendments that we have tabled accepted, thanks to the predisposition of Mr Gómez del Moral, whom we wish for a prompt recovery, and Mr Oriol Sagrera, who has been moving everywhere and trying to reach consensus, we have wanted to clarify and to ensure that the closure of the Model is done in a gradual way and that the Parliament and the trade unions are informed first of all, to ensure the employment of all those working in the Model and the other prisons, that it is also ensured that not because the Model is closed and that it is intended for officials there, the interim and the workforce of these other centres will be blown up, that the salaries and all the extras that have been received by the officials and the staff of the Model, of course that a period of negotiations with the trade unions will be reported and opened, and lastly, but very important, that a preventive centre will be built up in the areas of the Franca Zone and that will be initiated. As I said at the beginning of my speech, having reached a compromise and noting the main points that we were concerned about and that I believe are of concern to a large part of the unions and people who unfortunately have to go to the Model to visit some family member, we are going to vote in favour of this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.175.0	Thank you, Mrs. De Rivera. Next, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.176.0	Thank you, President. Well, good afternoon. It's been said, it's a complex theme, with a lot of actors and a lot of analysis vectors. That's why we're going to focus on it from a phrase used by the deputy of Catalonia. Yes, it's Pot, Àngels Martínez, this morning, saying, "Who is the love of words, who is a character of Alicia in the country of wonders, in the sense of: who says what, with what actions has done before and now and with what interests. A little to clear up every game from where to play and what's the playing field. We will start with our own from the CUP - Constituent Creed. We challenge, not new, the model of the prison system; we challenge deprivation of liberty as the only way of managing crime, and we have always been asking for more alternative criminal measures and other forms of management of all this; we challenge the model of imprisonment, if for us there were none. For another band, we challenge or conduct a class perspective analysis of the people in the prisons. We arrest them full of poor people, and that's not something new. So we're talking about the locals, too. Besides, most crimes are heritage crimes, and that's not a new thing either. We have also always been very critical of the fact that the prisons are away from the urban centres, as are the foreign internment centres, the mental health centres are there often, and this is a historical criticism that we have also done and that I do not have time to develop. So, what's our perspective? What are we talking about? From internal and internal rights; and, from internal and internal rights, we will support the Model lockdown and refrain from all those points that I am talking about opening more prisons and opening more prisons. Then, there is the platform« Our Fem the Model. Any of us talking about this platform and with what interests? They plant that they want community equipment and that they want to decide what kind of use is to be made in the land, plus it's about participatory process, it's about recovering historical memory. We read that the interest that is behind it is in community logic, say yes, urban. And, therefore, we will also give support or give support to the participatory initiative. Therefore, there is the General Directorate of Prison Services and the Council, which the speech is to close the Model to guarantee... – because the conditions of the building are not the right ones – to guarantee the rights of the inmates, which will guarantee work places, etc. But how many people talk about advice and direction? First, the government presents itself to a young man. So you're telling us enough, too. Then, the Model is as it is, in part, because it has fallen apart, so to speak, and surely the Government will say to me: "Yet, we were not in the Government. Yes, but there was a government before he let the Model go and let him get there, so to speak, until the conditions under which he is now. And it's also the claim to close the Model like opening the Free Zone. So, we're playing a little... we're cheating on the lonely, in this sense. I was fast, wasn't I? Because I have less than two minutes and I already know that this would require explaining a lot more, but I seem to be explaining myself. Therefore, the love of the words in this case is, in part – and says in part because I understand that the government of this country is new – responsible for the justification that needs or justifies the need to close the Model. And then we have the free zone platform and the unions. And here the arguments are also the interests of prisoners and prisoners, the relationship, the interest to ensure the proper ration of professionals, the criticism of the dispersion, etcetera. But have you been talking to us about this platform since? Okay. To us, they surprise us because we understand that until today these types of actors have not been very concerned about the interests of prisoners and prisoners. We are also surprised that it is critical to disperse, say, that many years ago from the anti-capitalist left and the independenceist left, for example, it is critical to disperse Basque prisoners and here we have never felt a union of prisoners giving us reason and working against the dispersion. Nor have we ever felt that there are questions about the restrictive interpretation of the Criminal Code and, therefore, in the logic of preventive detention; we have never felt a criticism with a class perspective of how the Criminal Code applies. And, therefore, we understand that you or the masters of these words are concerned about your work interests. Then, in this sense, we will abstain in all those points linked to work interests. Yes, we will vote in favour of all the studies, the measures and all the rest of the points of the motion in favour of the dispersion..., to work against, forgive, the dispersion, and the rights of the prisoners. And that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.177.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. [[Greetings.]] The words of Ms. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.178.0	Thank you, President. It seems that some, or don't understand, how the prison system works, or get lost. Gentlemen of the CUP: we are talking about the prevention centre and the open centre of Trinitat Vella, not convictions for crimes and terrorist assassinations. Don't forget it. [[Some congressman gives a couple of punches to the bait.]] That said, what exactly happens when, in the end, the political marketing photo is more important than managing well? So, that things are right and wrong. I mean, well done work is impossible. Why do we say that? Why decide to close prisons between vermouths, pati photographs and gesticulations with the government of Mrs. Colau, together, in consortium with the Socialist Party, brings the result of this young man. What do we think of this young man? Practically the same – the same – that we thought before it was presented and, finally, with the advisor's statements. We have not added to this transaction of this young man for many reasons. We were very concerned about the indefinacy there was about the model's project and its form of closure. We've been practically thirty years asking for the tank, now: one hundred and thirty years and now it's eight months, without doing it right? – One hundred and thirty years and now eight months? Just because there are signs of an agreement and it seems that some have started a campaign, or a pre-campaign of municipal elections? Not to us, it doesn't seem to be. We would have liked you to have accepted any of our papers. I already understand that the signature of the PP to some makes them allergy, what we didn't think is that absolutely desidelogized questions and that they had a lot to see with the prison reality that we have and, even so, that of the legal operators, were a hindrance to, as at least – as at least – talk about it, because this happened to me practically to one of today's media. We were also concerned about the impact of the workers, especially those who are involved and reinforcements of the two tanks which, in principle, were designed. And we were worried because I see that it's impossible... or you didn't like people so much that you make a specific reference to the merit contest and skills to provide work places for specialist technicians and penitentiaries. They didn't want to include it. We'll see what you're doing with stakeholders and what you're doing with terminations in the future. We were also concerned about family members and interns, especially those of the Model, not those of the Centre Obert, we were not fooled. We were also concerned about the fact that this affected the legal area: the operators; the consequences of the lock-up to correct; the sending of the prevents to forty kilometres of your court, as would be the interviews between lawyers, family members, conduct..., yesterday we had problems with the conduct precisely, from Can Brians to your court. We... it is true that there are certain points in the motion that we will not vote against them, and that is a reality. Because we believe – we believe – that there are things that need to be addressed and it is obvious that decisions need to be made. We would very much have liked the same rigour that you showed with the writing of this motion respect the center of Trinitat Vella, the hassin applied also to Model. But there are things you can't vote for, among others..., you can explain to us – we will ask you written, oral questions... – at point 5, what do you have to see the two tanks announced by Trinitat Vella and Model with the center for women? That you didn't add that this wasn't the subject of the young man? That you're planning on closing Wad-Ras and not letting us know? Have you talked to the unions? Haven't they ever talked about the Wad-Ras women's center? That is why we cannot vote in favour. And, above all, there are elements between the lock and the provision of the lock of the Model Center, in this fixed, improbable, eight-month terms, after one hundred and thirty years of operation, that do not please us and that arouse suspicions not only between the workers and the unions, but, at last, between the parliamentary groups. Among other things, because we find that this makes a report detailing how the prison system in Catalonia is restructured with the Model lockout far from what you have predicted for the Trinitat Vella center, where you do fix date per project, study and bid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.179.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Then, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Jordi Orobig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.180.0	Well, thank you very much, Madam President. Well, I seem to have very little time. To thank, in this case, all the spokespersons for their interventions, especially those that have enriched us, eh? – Does that count well, Madam President? He had three minutes, didn't he? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Back, just? So, in any case, thank the contributions. It is clear that this young man was better, that what this parliamentary group was looking for was to have a very broad consensus and, obviously, with his contributions, I think we have sunk him, right? That's what it was about. It is the department's concern – and I understand that it is – to respond to all those requests that you have been able to make and include in this motion, and that is why they have been collected and we have been able to deal with them. And I think that's what we have to do. If not, we feel very comfortable doing it this way. For what it does to the CUP spokesman, please thank that, from its ideological divergence with part of everything that involves this young man, he has the ability to sort out the grade of the ball and, therefore, pick up those aspects of this one that you understand are satisfactory for people, for the collection that implies or for the same city of Barcelona, right? And, therefore, I also believe that it is to aggravate not to make global negative plantings respect the proposals, if they do not partially satisfy them. And as far as Mrs. Esperanza Aguirre is concerned, she knows the saying that... [[relays]] – Forgave, forgave, Esperanza García – [[the timer riu]] I know – I forgive, I ask you – that they say, in this case, that the woman is the only animal that interbanks twice with the same stone. We've already discussed this subject. You yourself presented a presuppositional statement calling for the lockdown of the Model's center by the year 2017. So, let me say today that if you hurry to do it in eight months or not, listen to me, we repeated it – and I refer to the record, in this case, of the Presuppositional Section of Justicia – we have had the occasion to show it the slogan signed for the People's Party, literally asking that it is still the prison center of the Model the year 2017. Therefore, listen to me, apart from this, other considerations: logically, I think it is the will of whom wants to transform the world into political action and effective action. From this point of view and from this faristol, all I have left is to deeply congratulate the Department of Justice, and in this case its adviser, for having been able to bring this initiative forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.181.0	Thank you, Mr. Orobtig. [[Pause.]] We're calling it a vote. Mrs Vehi, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.182.0	For a separate vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.183.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.184.0	The first point, the sixth, the set. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, look, I'm telling you... or go on, see: the first point, separate; then, the second, the third, the fourth and the fifth, for us, you can vote together. Then, 8, 9 and 10 can also be voted together, for our part. And the 6th and the 7th, separately, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.185.0	Okay. Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.186.0	Thank you for making my last name clear. [[the speaker laughs]] - No, no, no, Miri, president, we wanted to ask you to vote separately from the motion. For points: 1 and 2, if they can be together, perfect; 3 and 4, together– I don't know if they've already said it, huh? –; the 5th and the 6th, together. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? From the 7th until the end, you can vote together. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.187.0	See, a separate vote has been requested from points 1; 2; 3 and 4 can be voted together; 5, separately; 6, separately; 7, separately; 8, 9, 10, together; and then it's over, because it's over. Okay? [[Pause.]] Fem..., or go on, there would be one, two, three, four, five, six, seven votes. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's get started. We'll start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 123 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 113 votes in favour, against and 19 abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 3 and 4. The vote begins. Points 3 and 4 were approved by 122 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 113 votes in favour, against and 19 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 7. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 122 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. And then we'll vote points 8, 9 and 10, or the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on prison equipment in Barcelona was approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into children at risk]] [[302-0007/11]] The item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on children at risk, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot. To expose her, has the word Ms Gemma Lienas. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Many thanks for going out in silence and in a hurry. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Lienas, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.188.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, on another occasion I told you, playing with the title of a novel by Cormac McCarthy: ours is not a country for children and young people. If we really want this to happen, we are being changed because children and vulnerable young people have the gift they deserve and, consequently, a socially adapted future. And a future adapted on the basis of the basic conditions of the infant, united to the possibilities that surround it. In this sense, I am sure that the expression "genetic determinism on many and many of you puts them at the top of the hairs" does not alienate me: to me too. By the way, genetics is a conditioner, but that's not all. People are also conditioned by our socio-economic situation, which when it is favorable the genetic situation of departure improves, but unfortunately the opposite also happens. In short, it's not the same baby, we pose by case, with Down syndrome in a family with resources of all kind than in one that doesn't have it. My question fifteen days ago referred precisely to infants and young people at risk, and in it I was concerned with the complaints that, at the length of all the time that I worked on the subject, all the sectors that were involved came to me, complaints that I summed up in four points: lack of legal certainty, coercion, lack of transparency and fragmentation of the family bond. The inquiry also focused on the problems that many CRAE and CREI have and the situation of abandonment in which workers and social workers are found: precarious, miserable contracts, working conditions that do not allow them to do their job as boilers and that cause them anxiety and depression, just to give us some examples. In short, the intention of the inquiry was to put the emphasis on the fact that the model of child protection that we have is not what it should be. We have an institutional model and we should go to a community service model; we have a pal·liatiu model, when what we need is a preventive model. That's to say, we need a model that I really acted as a positive conditioner, as I said before, because we don't have to reverse situations after that, which is difficult. Actually, I'm not saying anything that our childhood experts don't say. Says in Jaume Funes, in his book The place of childhood – and I translate it –: "Emergence, the critical case, can make us forget that most of the childhood that needs help is not in a situation of abuse or abuse and that even in these situations it can and must be stopped before. To further reinforce this idea, the suggestion that the report published for the same department in 2006 entitled "Children in residential centres of education: protected or stigmatized? ; the title is already quite suggestive. Also the study that seemed to me to quote the other day the counselor, which is a study of the department of 2016, entitled "Subject benefit of foster adolescents in Catalonia, the conclusion of this study says: "The adolescents in extended families and in alien families show values of subject benefit better than that of the general population of the same age. In change, the subjective well-being of adolescents in residential centers is significantly lower. I remember, when they presented this study, because I was there, and I was very interested, but, in change, I missed a date, which is to compare the subjective well-being if it had remained with the family. In any case, sometimes a centre is the only and last solution, but then we need small and integrated centres in the territory, which allow for an effect and a personalized daily life, with professionals empowered, connected between them, with decent wages and sensible rights. At the time of the preparation of the motion we asked ourselves if we were to make a list of requests and try to reflect everything that the different sectors had proposed to us, but we considered that we would certainly leave ourselves with aspects for the way, and what we wanted was a fundamental review of the model. That's why we saw better the creation of a working group that brings together the Government of the Generality, local administrations, parliamentary groups, trade unions, social entities and external specialists, all folded without limitation. And we want a group like this and not a parliamentary committee because all the participants were on equal terms. To the young man we also incorporated work axes, not points, so as not to limit the pocket of the group. The work axes are: legal guarantees for families, participation of children and young people, coordination between administrations and resources to prioritize assistance to families, working conditions of workers, transparency of the system and updating of the follow-up to the present time and to the new profiles. Finally, I would like to thank the question made by the honourable Member, Mrs Serra, who went in the same way as ours. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.189.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word of Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.190.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Fifteen days ago Mrs Lienas asked the Councillor to respect the situation of children and young people who are in foster care, who are in reception centres or intensive residential education centres. And he was explaining to us something that is real and that we've all shared in this Parliament, also in other motions, at other times, right? , and it is the difficult situation that has occurred in our country before the conditions in which some of these minors or infants live at these times in these centers. And he was setting us, therefore, this worrying panorama, which we all share, which after Gabriela Serra, in the subsequent intervention that she did, so she also shares, and in some things we may agree that there are many things to do. But, well, during these months we haven't talked much: we have made motions in this House, we have approved various motions for resolutions to the committees and, at the very least, we have prevented the DGAIA from being left with the orphan's pensions of minors, which we were able to approve shortly at the presuppositions. Clearly, the surprise was after, when, fifteen days after those interventions, the motion that brings us today Catalonia Yes, it can be considered that it is not up, from the point of view of the demand, to solve these problems. And that's what we have to say. That is to say, Catalonia Yes, it can propose to us a commission formed for the government, parliamentary groups, experts, social entities, unions, local administration, of unlimited character, that you rethink the model. And then a series of concrete tasks that we consider not to be modeling, but to be much more concrete tasks, some of which are part of our own activities as parliamentarians. But what we find most worrying about this young man is the calendar he's talking about. If we follow what you say, this big group of professionals will be in two months. Clearly, two months to form a working group, we only understand those who work in public, that we are too accustomed to cheat two months to make a working group. We are able to disconnect from Spain in divided_months, but to make a working group we need two_months. Okay. Two more months in order to be able, if this group considers it opportune, to commission an audit, which seems to me correct, for another band; but for an audit of which we want to do it it is necessary as at least five or six months, as at least and very quickly, taking into account that you are immigrating, being very fast. Point 3 says that once this work group's performance is completed, therefore, this audit, if it is so wanted, that we are already in December 2017, will have six months to present preliminary conclusions – six months – and one year to the finals. Bearing in mind that in this country we have the tradition of making elections every two years, we are not going almost to July of the year 2019, in case there is no, eh? Therefore, it seems to us that it is an example of what we consider ineffective; this is ineffective. And what it is... is to say, we agree with this working group. What have we proposed in these papers? We want to urge the government to make an audit, which tells us how the centres are, structurally, about their attention to young people, to professionals, to working conditions, to the execution of contracts, to the private and external services of these centres. We want an X-ray of everything, a scener of how he is. And then, once we have this audit, generate a group of experts who tell us how we give a solution to what the audit has detected. And from here on out, we're setting up which are the concrete policies to do it. That was our model; that's what we've been trying to defend at our desks, and unfortunately we think they haven't just been picked up on this young man. So what we're doing is abstaining. Our position will be forbearance in this case, while at the point where the possibility of the group considering it appropriate to do this audit – even though we consider it the first one we should do – we will vote in favour of it. That doesn't mean we don't agree that the model needs to be rethought – then I'll refer to the second part of the next young lady, because today I'll split up..., there's an intervention in two moments. Because talking about a model means talking about a lot of things and it means opening up the melo of a situation today, that of the children's and children's friendships in Catalonia and the functioning of the DGAIA, that it should be analyzed with the greatest possible consensus, but that it should open melons that at these times carry a lot of closed years and open them. But, yes, we cannot give up the efficiency that the citizens deserve and, above all, the minors of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.191.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. The words of Mrs Elisabeth Valencia, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.192.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, today we speak in Parliament once again to talk about the model of child protection that we have in Catalonia. We go ahead with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot that we will vote in favour of the motion, that what it asks is to create a joint government-parliament committee with the participation of all the parties involved in the protection system, because we believe that it is created with the aim of improving the system; therefore, it is necessary and we will vote 'yes'. But we think that the government should be given shorter deadlines for implementing the measures, we must be more ambitious. This government, which announces much but implements little, must be made proposals in a precise way, reaching commitments for government action. We share with other groups the possibility that this analysis of the system will be carried out by professionals externally, if this speeds up the implementation of measures. Gentlemen, time is running out. Look, when a minor has a problem, he needs protection. Minors who are lucky enough to have a family that loves and cares for them and cares for them come to their family. If the family is not prepared to care and care for their children, it is clear that it needs an intervention from the Administration. The point here is that the Administration must intervene in the most appropriate way possible, in order to ensure that the objective pursued by the law, which is to ensure the best interests of the child, is met. To intervene in the most appropriate way we need real data from the protection system, numbers and indicators. The counselor, when she comes here or makes statements, tells us about open files, but we would like to know data such as percentages of school absenteeism that have children who are within the protection system, how many end the ESO and how many not... We think that these data are very important to know if the child is 100_per_cent in society or not. It is not enough to ensure that children are not on the streets; it is a matter of ensuring that these children have equal opportunities. We want to know how long the minors are within the centres; it is important that we know whether or not the period stipulated by the law of six months of stay in the centres is fulfilled. The time in the life of minors is vital. We appreciate and recognize the complex work done by DGAIA staff. In relation to the reports made by these staff, we believe that they should meet objective criteria. We do not doubt their professionalism, but, given the high workload they have and the importance of the resolutions that dictates DGAIA, the reports must meet technical, objective, evaluable, precise criteria... I will not be the one to evaluate the content of these reports. For this and for this will be the experts, but if staff need advice it should be provided. When a Defence Resolution is made by DGAIA, DGAIA has two months to open file. The procedure lapses, and the family, on many occasions, has no recourse or simply does not know the time limits, does not appeal the resolution. And why don't they turn? Well, because no one informs them of the deadlines. We therefore call for greater support and counselling for the families of the children in care. Families should be able to have a copy of DGAIA reports; this is a resolution that we have adopted in this Parliament, and it has not yet been implemented. We ask the Government to comply with the resolutions adopted by this chamber. It is hardly worth presenting many initiatives here, if the Government then fails to implement them. We know that there is an announced plan for child mental health; let us hope that it will be noticed and implemented as soon as possible. Minors must be with their families. We recognize that the Government is enhancing family reception. We have to keep doing it. We're asking you for a review of model centers. We know the centers are collapsing. The model should tend to smaller centres to better care for children. The bigger the centers, the more disgusted they are. Stability is a key factor; both the fact of changing schools and always having the same educators, the same foster families..., this influences the little ones. We must, on the one hand, improve the job stability of the professionals of the centers, and, on the other hand, that the minor is subject to the least number of changes, in order to provide stability, as it will be a key factor for their well-being. In conclusion, we agree with the objective of the motion, but we believe that, as an opposition, we must have a more ambitious commitment to deadlines, so that the review of the protection system and the measures can be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.193.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Valencia. The words of Ms. Montserrat Vilella, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.194.0	Well, thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, we find ourselves today before a young man who presents us Catalonia Yes, it is possible, which in principle seemed simple– the Member Lienas, therefore, said « will be from a point of view», and in the end it has turned out to be a complex young man, who until the last hour we have been debating, negotiating and trying to seek consensus; I do not know whether we have come out of it or not, but finally, for what it is seen, we will approve a young man who wants to create a space of work and reflection. They do not want to change everything, nor do they want to change nothing, but they want to look for this area of work that allows us to do the work, to the deputies, our legislative work and also our control and follow-up work, and that must be allowed above all..., and we want one of the points that we propose is that this mixed working group is not located in Parliament but is located in the same department, because it allows, precisely, that the same system is followed by the same system of care for childhood and adolescence at risk, which the same person thinks, and we can be present, we can bring and then we can bring to this room, if any, the measures of legislative change. It has been complex, because obviously, therefore, I appreciate all the work that Members of this Parliament are doing in the field of childhood, because it is very likely that we will be working on every plea that we have a better system in our country, and it has been complex because each or every one of us sees it in a different way. But, in any case, what we would ask from Juntes for the Yes, we would ask from the group that supports the Government, that if we commend them to this mixed commission, if we let them participate in rethinking this model, see the things that work, that are many, and see the things that don't work well, that are some, and some things that don't work, that are others, identify them and be able to change them, so it will be very good. And, therefore, what we are asking for is this compromise that this working group, whether or not it is to the exact taste and gratitude of each of the groups, we are actually going with this constructive spirit and that we can above all push the same professionals, who are doing a very complicated job..., I would say that it is one of the systems, the system of protection against childhood at risk, and above all those children who have measures for the sake of unemployment..., it is indeed the most complex system that we have in our society. Infants who arrive at this situation are infants who have experienced many things that have gone very badly into their lives. And, therefore, we have the responsibility to complement the rights of infants, in the first instance the parents, but if the parents, for whatever reason they are, cannot or cannot do so, obviously it has to be the Administration. And we need to find a way to give tools to these professionals so they can do their job better. What we cannot do, and on some occasions it has happened in this very plenary, is that, in order to put the subject under discussion, we have exaggerated, we have generalized, we have presented a dramatic situation. And what we wouldn't want is for you to complete what Mrs. Lienas said "the prophecy, that we predetermine that it is a system that can't carry anything good and that, therefore, I don't carry it. What the children of our country claim to us as legislators is that we imagine them a full life for each of them and that we make it possible. Therefore, this working group and this young man will certainly not fix everything, but let's put ourselves - there is all our strength to give prompt and above all to put in value the work that the professionals are doing. Tell them a congresswoman who worked in an EAIA and worked in a CSMIJ supporting child care centers. It's one of the most complicated and complex things. It is one of the jobs that requires a professional but personal but more intense involvement. Therefore, let us give them strength and allow our country to follow an example, as in some things it is, of the system of protection for children at risk. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.195.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Villa. Next is the word Maria Serra, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.196.0	Good afternoon. It is that also in dic Maria Serra, especially Guatemala. That's why the president, who was in an act the other day, reminds me and likes me and excites me. Nice late, huh? Thank you, President. Thank you, Gemma Lienas. I mean..., it seems to me that your young lady once again raised – like your group – the concern we deeply share about what we do with this childhood, with this scoundrel, with these children and children from whom the institution takes responsibility, takes custody and, therefore, tries to protect. We said, I think..., and it's been more and so it's not... – that's what's left of me, not what I've been talking about... [[Pause.]] Yeah. I will try to make the most of it, because I share many of the appreciations that have already been made; I share, Raúl – you know – many of the observations that you have made and that seem important to me, as well as the concerns that Junts' companion gave for the Yes. Now, we won't vote for the young man you've presented, will we? We're going to... we're going to ask for a point vote. Why? Because, while sharing, I think that the cause concern, and it seems to me that it's the most important, is to say, how do we get better because things work out, and still share this, we don't just share and we don't just recognize the effectiveness and effectiveness in the concretes that the motion presented to us by the Group of Catalonia does, right? It's true that I said it myself, didn't I? , that we believe it is necessary to make a profound rethink of the whole system, of its means and objectives, of its shortcomings and possibilities, and that this rethinking should be encouraged in an analysis and a deep reflection, realistic, distressed, etcetera. That's why we proposed to create, bring forward this public but independent audit that we were able to take a picture of ourselves, to take a static picture of how we are at these times, how we have the system, how we have the centers, how we have the functions, how we have the educators, the educators, the protectors and the protectors, right? And that's why we said that this assessment was an element that could bring us a light and a realization that would give us much more mechanisms to be able to intervene effectively. We don't understand that the committee that you proposed to us is a committee that helps us solve or accurately take everything that we proposed and that you proposed to us, don't we? Why? Because it's true that there are a lot of actors, and it's good that there are a lot of actors, but we have mechanisms to be in touch with these actors and enrich ourselves with their contributions without needing to be part of a mixed committee. Why? Because it's true that they may have, that they have ideas, that they have ideas and that, therefore, we would be in equal condition as to knowledge, but we don't have equal responsibility or responsibility to intervene on these conditions. And, therefore, there are many actors but with many different levels of responsibility and so much opportunity to transform all this model that we are thinking of, right? There are other questions that we have not just heard either, and, I mean, we don't think that the scoundrel, that children, that children, that foster children should systematically participate in all the processes of the implementation of the unemployment system. We believe and share the idea of many professionals who argue that it is not possible, that participation does not proceed in all the process that is in place at the time when the child, the child, must be assessed and separated, therefore, as possible, from their families. Nor do we believe that this committee is the one to deal with the work problems of workers. We believe that there is a public function_table and that, therefore, they are the ones who have to deal with it. Yes, we believe it is worth doing – and this was our proposal that has been collected for you – a follow-up to the regulations, approved agreements, all the recommendations made by the Greuges Synod, etc., and so on, and this is shared with the PSC's companies and companies, that the terms you give us seem to be non-realistic terms, that they are terms that do not respond to the real ability of this committee to come out and do all the work and assume the full responsibility of reviewing, referring to, reorienting the system. What's left? Possibly, and I'm also saying it as a bit of a review and self-criticism, if it were, possibly, sure, that more time would have helped us profile more. There are some questions that are believed between the motion that will come later and this one. And, possibly, with more time, we could have done something more accurate for both sides. And so, let it prevail, let it prevail above all the interest of the infant above all, let it prevail the interest and the welfare of these children and young people that the DGAIA assumes the guardianship and, therefore, the responsibility. The commission will come out, we'll put it there... and we'll do it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.197.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. Next is the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.198.0	I'll do like Gabriela and... there's a pen here that someone left and I don't know... In the first place, president, councillor, I want to express, therefore, our sorrow and our feeling for the transposition today of a director of ours to Tarragona, and ours also close with our companies in Tarragona. And also, in another context, the desire for prompt recovery for Gerard Gómez, company in so many commissions, and that is soon recovered. Well, I suppose, ladies and gentlemen, that also the people who are dedicated to this area take the call; take the call, and do it with a certain normality, but it seems to me that one of the most difficult decisions and situations in life must be to decide whether a child is removed from the custody of the parents; it is to say, if we bring a child from his or her family environment and put him or her under the supervision of the Administration directly, right? Because the professional who finds himself in this cruelty – and the deputy of Juntes for the Yes, therefore, has not had a certain experience – you see before a situation that..., for if they are already dramatic and conflicting, that they are the situations of those families; you see before the hurt of the parents, and especially the seas, that expresses itself, for example, in the centers of the DGAIA, and your professionals know it. In the determination to protect the child's interest, there is always the uncertainty of not knowing whether the decision is the right one. I mean, that's not math or natural science. I mean, we're talking about very complex human constellations, and you can't have, except in exceptional cases, the certainty to say, 100 percent, the best for this child is that. That's why the first thing we want to do is pay tribute to the professionals who face these situations every day with their own, so better intent and professionalism. And we also want to thank the deputies Gemma Lienas and Gabriela Serra for setting us up the stage for this debate. It is a question that we need to do with delicacy and prudence – it is very delicate, it is very easy to inflame souls, there are many people affected – but it is also to be done with determination, because it is clear that there are things that are not working. And we can act without wasting our time. Because what these motions reveal is a frac or at least a certain frac of a protection model that had emerged as the great model of success, and then, in some cases at least, it has left those to be protected. And that's what we've been through. We've been getting to know each other very clearly. The other day, Constellera Bassa was holding Mrs Lienas back apocalyptic and, certainly, she was a little bit. But it is that the literality of the two interventions, when one passes them, certainly, has a certain apocalyptic. "The child protection system does not work, he says. "The reality shows that not all infants and adolescents who are under guardianship are effectively protected," said the other. And you won't break me, to repeat what's said, some of the things that are said. But, as I said, there are so many affected people that we have to try not to throw gasoline on the fire. But I'll tell some of them. It was said: "There is a clear lack of legal certainty for families; "families feel helpless and cannot access the consignor; "in disemployments they are vulnerable to phone-related rights; "it is coercion and blackmail to families to prevent them from wandering to court or talking to media; "many workers suffer physical and psychological attacks that cause anxiety and depression; "prisoners have more rights than our children, they have said, and more. And there were concrete examples, with really dramatic situations that violated their rights and that had suffered injuries that would surely last them all their lives. And it's true that parliamentary logic, let's say, in pictorial terms would be the style of clairvoyance, right? No, of darkness, I forgive – of darkness – that is to paint things..., the opposition to black paints, we are... But what is clear is that here there are some dark spots that have been assigned to us, and when there are spaces of shadow what we have to do is to put on – is to put on –; surely, knowing that we have forgotten enough of the lights there is. But there are also shadows, dark spots. And we celebrate and thank Congresswoman Lienas who presented this young man. We will vote for it. There is some point that perhaps we would make a difference; perhaps the composition of the committee should also have a little more articulation because it is not, in the end, an accumulation of difficult voices after ordering in a sense, right? But in any case, we're not going to make a big deal out of this. There are many questions that need to be improved and we are here among all of you to make it a front. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.199.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Next, has the word Ms Gemma Lienas, to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.200.0	I'm sorry, I'm a congressman now... [[The joker laughs.]] Has anyone left a lapis? [[Widow's remorse.]] Okay. Thank you, President. It was before the motion presented for our group – rethinking the model of care for children and adolescents at risk in Catalonia – we incorporated some work axes into it, which I read them. And, in fact, we didn't want to include points not to limit the pocket of this work group. Finally, we have incorporated some points that cannot be interpreted as restricted, but as orientated, and we have incorporated them because the elements that we have accepted yearned in this sense and, therefore, if we want to open ourselves to the possibility of accepting them, we have to put them as points. We would like to thank Juntes for the effort to reach agreement through the precision of some points that help to make the motion more understanding and more accurate. And above all, we believe that there has been a significant change in attitude since we made the first motion on child risk until now. We see a clear will to change things. We also want to appreciate the attitude of other groups, both of those who have submitted papers that we have been able to accept with those who have not submitted and who have said that they will give support to the youth, as those who have said that they will abstain. We, the young man, before presenting it, before registering it, sent it to some center workers – center workers and center workers – and to a childhood specialist, Mr. Jaume Funes. We were going to gather the suggestions that made us get there whenever possible. Therefore, the young person is well known to specialists in the world of childhood. We continue to be happy with the motion we have put forward, because what we want is for the participants to have the same opportunities – the participants of this work group – to be equal in terms of conditions for all of them, because we are in favour of taking over the city. For what he does over time, Congressman Moreno is a complaint that I give time to the government and Congresswoman Serra that I donate a little to the working group. Look, he's not worried, not too long or too little; we don't want to put concrete points in the way, so there are other motions. What we want is to put a thread in the needle to change the pattern, and we won't do that in six months and maybe we won't do it in a year. We'll see how much time it takes. The case is that we rejoice that this young man can be approved, because what we pretend is to improve the welfare of children and young people who are in a vulnerable situation. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.201.0	Thank you, Mrs. Lienas. We're calling it a vote. Why ask me the word, Mrs Serra?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.202.0	To ask for separate votes from the points. Wait, if I find the paper... Please... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, that's not it. Excuse me, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] Voldria separated 1, 2.c, 2.e, 2.f, 2.h and 3. Then another block: 2, 2.b, 2.d, 2.g, 2.i. And the 2nd.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.203.0	The 2nd in this second block?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.204.0	No, third block. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.205.0	I don't know if there's any sun left... Mr. Moreno, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.206.0	For a point of order. I'd like to know if 2.g has asked for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.207.0	The 2nd?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.208.0	2.g.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.209.0	2.g. Yes, it was asked how to vote separately, but it was said that they could go in a 2, 2.b, 2.d block. But I think maybe it's better that we vote for it all separately, because, I don't know... now I'm explaining what's been asked. Point number 1 was asked to vote separately; then, in one block, 2.c, 2.e, 2.f, 2.h and 3; and then, in another block, 2, 2.b, 2.d, 2.g, 2.i; and then, 2.a_sun. That's what he asked for, so... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, it's four votes, because 1 also asked to vote separately. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] So, let's do these... In total there are – one, two, three, four – five votes. Okay? [[Pause.]] We shall vote, first of all, on the number one point. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 105 votes to 26, with 26 abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 2, 2.b, 2.d and 2.i. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah. The 2, 2.b, 2.d and 2.i. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, that's what I said, yeah. The vote begins. Points 2, 2.b, 2.d, 2.i were approved by 115 votes in favour, against and 16 abstentions. We will then vote points number 2.c, 2.e, 2.f, 2.h and 3. The vote begins. Points 2.c, 2.e, 2.f, 2.h and 3 were approved by 105 votes in favour, against and 26 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. It's the 2nd; the rest of the young man is the 2nd. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 2.g. Another vote. So, we will continue to vote on the 2nd– 2nd. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, the 2.g after, because the ges you after the a, not for nothing. [[Give me the applause.]] First, the 2nd. The vote begins. Point 2.a_has been approved by 105 votes to 10, with 16 abstentions. And then we'll vote on 2.g, which is already the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The Ministry on Children at Risk was approved by 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the dignity of child care]] [[302-0109/11]] The new item on the agenda is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the dignification of the attention to childhood, presented for the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Maria Serra. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.210.0	Forgive me, huh? But I have an embolism of papers... I don't know who's playing. Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Today we have the satisfaction of having an overdose to help the child. But, in other words, we're going straight and short. First of all, deeply thank all the groups of this chamber for the interest and attention they have shown with this young man. I've gotten stuff from everyone, and with all the groups we've been able to work looking for wealth, looking to learn, looking to get better and looking to make a place that you actually serve to improve the attention that our infants receive. It is true that it has been easy, relatively easy, to agree on everything that was better, I think very clear and clear, in everything that refers to the best of the situation of the centres, the best of the situation and all of the working conditions, from their material and housing point of view, of the educators and educators. I think it has also been easy, relatively easy, comfortable, to agree on everything I have to see with the freedom of expression of children and children who are in the DGAIA centres to manifest their beliefs, their choices, but also with the absolute neutrality of the centres that breed these children and children. It's also relatively easy, because we're leaving, I think from a very strong consensus, to accept many of the recommendations that had already been made in this chamber at the time and had already expressed to the same syndic. We'll spend the name on the syndic, because lately this room seems like we can't do anything without counting on the syndic. But good, it did good. Therefore, we have taken into account, too, all the recommendations made by the syndicate, which are of the Lord, of the common sense and which are, therefore, welcome. And we've... we've learned that from all of it... it's not enough for us, it's hard for us to know that from all of this, there's been a theme, a theme, a theme that we haven't agreed on, that we've been able to say that responsibility, care, care, protection of all children and children that are protected by the DGAIA have to be done and done about public coverage and about public attention, substantially public, and that, therefore, the two points where I didn't get so much..., I didn't get so much consent, we didn't get so much consensus and so much unanimity, it's precisely in the points that they were seeing with the return of privatization, with the reversal of all those services that are currently being outsourced. And neither have we had support in the proposal that we made that all the nine places that will be created, and that we already know that it is created, because he gave it to us to hear from the councillor in person, that they were all to fall public. We didn't get all the seats... that everyone agreed to this. However, we have managed – indeed we have managed – to give a sufficient amount of time to ensure that the centres are vaginous and that the places are vaginal and that they are vaginal... those who are to be, and deserve, those who allow human, dignified, respectful, and familiar state conditions; these give or twelve children and children of whom we always speak, right? We have also spoken and we have put ourselves very, very much in agreement to bear in mind that children and children who are transferred to one of these centres, who have, in the shortest possible time, these fifteen days that we have granted, school attendance, and who, if not so, can have, as it should be, the teacher, the master of help that they need. I insist, we have agreed on almost everything, less to defend a public system of attention to our childhood. And it is true that one of the observations that we have rejected has been to say: "It is not possible to do this now; it is not possible to reverse now and it is not possible to get places now to be public. Let me tell you who I am this observation that happens that for many years very many people, among whom I count, for the age, eh? A lot of people have followed and we have stood firm in demanding and demanding that at that time it was not possible; finally the insistence has made it possible. That is why, despite the fact that we have not rejected the support, we will continue to say that we cannot wait for everything to be perfect, that we cannot wait for the total reversal, that we must take small steps, but that the timetable and the objective continue to know that the one that protects, that it is public institutions, that the one that works, that the institution that is responsible for this channel, does so from public responsibility, from public assistance, from the quality that we must demand to assist, to embrace and therefore to protect the public, and that, therefore, our children and our children who must be protected that always do so under a public umbrella...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.211.0	Lady Serra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.212.0	...right and effective.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.213.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.214.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.215.0	To defend the papers presented, the words of Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.216.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I apologize that before I greeted him, in the initial intervention. Well, actually what Gabriela tells us is true. It has been relatively easy to agree on the content of this motion, among other things because it is a concrete motion, which speaks of themes that have also emerged during all these months in this Parliament; it speaks of the conditions of infants, CRAEs, assembly centres, and CREIs, and also of the willingness to increase the presence of the service as a public service, that at these times what we have is very much private in almost all its totality. A very high percentage of places in these moments of CRAE and CRAE are external, run by private companies. And, therefore, all that's true – and I know what it's about – that this can't be done now because we're going to need such a strong reversal, let's just say, to reverse the system we have at these times..., but that doesn't mean we don't want to give up from that point on the places that we do are doing with public priority and that we do a study, like the same young lady, to go back to it little by little, and as we can do to convert the system to be more public and less private every time. For another band, also in this young man, well, we insist on the need that, as this system is like what it is and we have it as we have been living for many years, it must be transparent. We would appreciate it if Parliament had completed one of the points of a motion that we approved by the year 2016, where the centres, in a public way, would have to make public their accounts on the Generalita website, and know how much it was charged, how much it was spent, and that has not yet been done, and I think it is a good transparency exercise to know exactly where the large amount of money we invest in this system is going to stop. It's about professional work, it's about the issue of mental health, which is a very important issue in the system, as it relates to the environment, isn't it? We have presented in this sense some points, which are not accepted... but which I would like to put in full, that what they want is to claim one thing that we in this Parliament are too used to as it happens, and that is that it is not complete to what is approved. And this happens to us in motions... and I'm not talking about motions from our own Socialist Parliamentary Group, which also... but some points that are interesting from the point of view of the realization of actions, which we talked about before, right? , from action-reaction, from being able to start doing things now, right? In July of last year we approved this motion which I said, which required assurance in all cases before a removal of the infant or young person from his or her family nucleus, that the child and adolescent care team would provide the family with an intelligible and enlightening document on how to expose existing lives, both in the area of administration and justice, to which the family can rely. It doesn't even appear to us on the compliment report that this has been done. Nor to ensure that meetings between the family and the direction of the DGAIA, therefore, is allowed the assistance of a lawyer, at the request of the family. We don't know, don't put it on the compliment report, that this happened, does it? As the lady says. Or even set up by means of the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families and the direction of DGAIA, in terms of three_months– to count from the month of July, huh? – a specific mechanism to meet the demand for information, complaints and complaints from many families that once they have withdrawn custody, they ask to have information and to have much closer attention with the DGAIA because they consider that nothing has been done that is right throughout this process. And that specific channel didn't get in the way either. So what we're asking is that it fills in these things that are girls from everyone's will and that's not a question of money, it's a technical question, that we could probably solve to make the system more just. I'm done. Let's talk about the model, and before I told them there were some things I think we should start talking, if we're talking about the model, right? There is a fundamental issue that must be reflected on for all of us: is it a person from the Administration who must dictate the withdrawal of a minor or must he be a judge? That's one of the issues. There are countries that have a model, there are countries that have others. This is an important issue from the point of view of the guarantees of the child and the family. This does not mean that the Administration does not have to act quickly before the detection of a case that may be subject, therefore, to some type of maltreatment or situation in which the family's disengagement is to be dictated quickly, but immediately thereafter the judicial conditions that allow the family to defend and defend the work of the DGAIA must be given, and we consider that a decision as important as taking custody of a child must be directly referred to a court. This is one of the issues that we think we should go out or that we should discuss in this new model; there are not many, but this is one of those that is raised and never..., or that does a certain by, so decide which is the best way to do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.217.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. The words of Ms. Laura Vílchez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.218.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members..., in May my parliamentary group made an inquiry to Councillor Bassa and I myself started my speech by saying: « This is an intervention that I would like not to have to do. And today, nine months later, I could start by saying exactly the same thing. Today, nine months later, the Councillor can observe that it is no longer only my parliamentary group that tells her that the protection system does not comply with acceptable minimums of guarantee and quality, but that, today, it is the opposition to the whole that has begun to work in the face of the inaction of her Government to exercise responsibly its competence in the field of the protection of children and adolescents in Catalonia. No matter how much they try to deny it, there is no clear or concrete response to children, to affected families, or to workers who assist and enable daily, real and daily care. And not only do I say this, but the opposition is saying it, as I am commenting on it, but the syndic also says that year after year it fills pages and pages in monographs on the situation of children and protected adolescents in Catalonia, full of recommendations, both in the specific reports of children and in the reports on the prevention of torture; they are also told by the associations of affected families, they are also told by the social workers who support the day-to-day protection system. What this government is doing so well is responding to a jump in the woods, a jump in headlines. And what it should do or what it should already take time to do, because they have had time, is to think about and plan a serious restructuring of the model of care for children and adolescents that truly focuses on the best interests of the child; work and provide the facilities that are needed for everyone to carry out their work in the best possible way and for all the actors involved to feel that they are doing their job, with all the guarantees. To this day, this is not happening; it is not working energetically or effectively for this purpose. Nor do we see a decisive and much less priority in the budgets, where prevention, once again, and unfortunately, goes from point to point. Therefore, from the opposition, we will have to sketch them with the steps to follow to get a decent protection system where truly a helpless child finds the protection he should never have lost. For all this we want to thank the CUP for having presented this motion, which we find to be so, so successful that it seems to us. [[Rialles.]] « Create, « plan, « approach, « fix are verbs that we like and share, and share verbal complements and share final objectives. And for that, saving our differences, today it was time to agree. And for this reason we have presented our papers, because in this sense our intention is always to build and seek consensus. Says the David Román, a professional, an educator, that foster children are those that their families do not know, they cannot or do not want to become 'em. And to us she sincerely gives us the feeling that this government is passing just the same, because, if not, it doesn't explain. Because if you knew you'd listened many months ago to those who live with this reality every day, as I did. And, therefore, it could already be many months before important, solid and useful decisions were made, because if you could, if you could, you would already be implanting a mental health plan that, even though we still don't know it today, some of us would trust it, hoping that it would address urgent issues. And why, if we wanted to, we would have seen the reflection of this will on the assumptions, which we only saw reflected in part. Therefore, we will support the youth in the vast majority of points, hoping that it will not fall in the same way where the department has all the motions on childhood and child protection that have preceded this. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.219.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vílchez. Next is the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.220.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, well, today the papers have been reversed a little, because Catalonia Yes it can have made the speech of the challenge, change the system, while the UPC has made the speech of the reform: reform it, accept that it is good in its conjunction, but that it has to evolve to improve it. And the MP of the CUP, to whom we thank, Gabriela Serra, her efforts, as the other groups have done, the work done, and also the willingness to arrive, therefore, in agreement with the other groups, sets out this reform both in the dynamics of the DGAIA as in a presuppositionary increase; a presuppositionary increase that makes me think of something that led to my company yesterday, and it is: listen, if we get to sign these assumptions that you would vote here, we would have said "austericides", we would have said "neoliberal rescues". In fact, they will vote for assumptions that in social parties have less expense than those of the year 2012, when you were at the door, preventing entry, because they were "austericide" assumptions. So they'll vote for them this year. It is life and it is the domestication of the institutions, that gave the deputy of Podemos. But... another time the national chanting worked. Here, at this point where Mr. Carrizosa is – and I don't compare him, eh? – Mr.Artur Mas said: "You have sent this legislature to make punches. Remove what he said. They went through the ring. This year they said: "If you don't pass through here, the process is going to make punches. And they've been through the ring, too. In any case – we tank this parenthesis – we celebrate another time, I repeat, the content of the motion. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, but it's the freedom of speech, of talking about what a... you know? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Effectively. And we're in favour of the reformist points of this young man, well thought out... we're against that kind of pressure, aren't we? , which the honourable Member is giving us now, which is this point where there could not have been found and agreement on the sole and exclusive management of the public. We think that this does not respond to the Catalan reality, and in fact it does not respond to its assumptions of the Generality, because you ask us for a single public system and then you submit to the Generality assumptions that they say that the third sector is being helped for their concerts and to pull forward..., make the ullet, pick the ullet to the third sector. Therefore, we believe more in this, in this mixed system: concert-public, concert and private. In any case, you offer us important steps, such as our therapeutic centers; as psychological support staff; as a more familiar dimension of the centers, which has all the meaning; as programs of struggle against the school fracturing; as staff attention, which is actually, as we said before, in very complicated situations. There is an interesting point, about religious symbolism, that you ask to withdraw, because they say that it tempts against the freedom of conscience any religious symbols, for example, that carry a concerted order, a religious order, that assists children with difficulties, right? I think that the presence of a sign is not an attempt against religious freedom, whenever that person and that child are allowed to develop their beliefs and to accompany themselves and leave themselves free to live and practice their faith, right? In fact, there is a very interesting article by Unamuno, which was not exactly clerically representative, about what happens when these symbols are taken and who are the ones who pose the opposite. Two final reflections, which I believe we share. We're better off a baby, will you? I think we need to think about this, maybe. That is to say, where is a child better: in a family that has a lot of problems, unstructured, with a very bad situation, or in a collide center, even though this collide center is good? What's better? Maybe in the family, even though I have a very delicate situation. Not always, huh? – not always – there are cases of intervention, but... But the results of the institutional model lead us to ask this question and I think it's worth it that we make it between all of us, because I honestly don't have the answer. And, for another band, how much does an institutionalized infant cost us? It costs a lot of money to the public. And if we dedicate this money to the family, to the family nuclei with problems? – maybe he has economic problems, maybe he needs a psychological treatment of some of his members. Maybe it's better for the infant, and even more, it's more rational than a presuppositional point of view. So, let's study it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.221.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. The words of Ms. Anna Caula, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.222.0	Thank you, President. Good evening, counselor; good evening, everyone. From our group we want to thank, and add to what other groups have said, the deputy Gabriela or Maria Serra, this late, for being able to come to good and, above all, realistic and possible agreements, so as to move forward on a theme that brings us all, and with the will to build and make our child protection system a powerful tool and that covers all the needs of the most sensitive populations: infants and adolescents. Congratulate her, too, because no one can say that there has been a working and fine-tuned youth, in the best sense of the word. From our group, our will is to try to solve problems and improve. Mentality of: we detect a problem, we search for solutions; we detect what we can improve, we do it. And with this vision we look at it. We already know that this is a way of never ending, because our goal would be to approach excellence; but we accept it. As it goes, our sources are analysis, reflection and evaluation, as work tools to move forward. For what it does to the movement in concrete terms, we first of all appreciate the trust of the different groups for what it does to point 3 and 5a, on the Comprehensive Care Plan for people with mental disorders and additions, one of the strategic lines to empower and a need for country. This plan, which will be presented in the next few weeks, has worked and agreed with all the agents and entities in the sector. That's why we defended and found our papers presented, because we believe that this board will equip us with the tools and solutions needed to move forward in the points raised to the young man. Another of the questions of the points of the motion that we want to highlight is to value the work to further develop the psychosocial assessment of all the centers and, once the needs and shortcomings are identified, to put all the weight in the implementation of corrective measures to deal with these risks. We would also like to make a point of our counter position on point 5.a. We agree that all places must be public finance, but it must also be clear that the system needs the coexistence of different models: public and concerted. That's right, with public control, effective, rigorous and real. Because we talked about it the other day and shared it: there are exemplary public centres and exemplary concerted centres and, at the same time, better public centres and concerted centres. Therefore, we understand that what is a curious legislation in the tendering process, the subsequent award and, above all, in the follow-up, evaluation and supervision of the project developed. We understand that they are two models that have to live with and with a common and round objective: they have to ensure the same opportunities and guarantees for foster children and adolescents, regardless of which centre they are assigned to. And why do we need both models? Because the concerted model allows us to quickly cope with social emergencies – the past year has reached seven hundred infants, during 2016 – fast that in the public system is sometimes limited. This double model also allows us to offer immediate responses to the territory, territoriality and expertise. And I would not want to end the intervention without special emphasis on prevention work, and not just on protection, which is also a priority for us. We can try to find solutions at the tip of the pyramid, and they also heat these. But maybe the best solutions start a little earlier, with early detection and intervention when the problem is gone, not when it's stalled. We can continue to put galleries where leaks are filtered, or jump to the roof, detect where it is drilled and cover it. One company was commenting on me the other day as if we were to intervene before the case of a 14-year-old boy who was already in the second manhood. As much as we can focus and protect this minor, my question was that we didn't or didn't do well and how we could get better so that we didn't have to intervene in fourteen years when the problems are already important. Because when we hear that we bet on prevention and early intervention, we can really change the future of our children and adolescents qualitatively. Finally, we also appreciate the addition of point 7, which precisely reinforces what we had previously been talking about. The honourable Member told us that the best place a child can be is at home, that the best place he can develop is in the familiar surroundings. We would add that we must also have the necessary Community support for proper development. This is why we continue to bet: first, the family; then, extended family; then, welcome and protection in centres as worthy as possible, where we want to ensure individualized, stable and secure care, and that a link is developed, betting for the same small family units. That's how they want to move forward. Ours is a clear bet for mating, a clear bet to strengthen and donate community tools. And it's clear that we'll get better, because we want to get better. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.223.0	Thank you, Mrs. Caula. Then there's the word "Mrs. Gemma Lienas."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.224.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, Catalonia Yes, you can be glad to see that the CUPs have added to what has been a concern of our group since practically the beginning of the legislature. And we're glad because this is a delicate subject, which raises a wrist and which costs looking face to face. Therefore, it is obvious that the more political groups we work on will be easier to change the situation. And we are also pleased that the honourable Member, Mrs Serra, raised exactly the same questions that our group raised, which must only ratify that there are problems. The honourable Member's question was clear and compelling, although it did not merit the adjective of "apocalyptic". When I say that the model doesn't work, I don't talk about the Law of De-Employment and Protection..., I mean, I'm talking – I'm sorry – about the model of De-Employment and Protection, not about the Law of Rights and Opportunities in Childhood and Adolescence, this very good instrument to preserve the rights of children and young people. But there are two hits, and big ones, in relation to the law: the first is that it has not just been deployed and, therefore, we still need rules and precisions, and the second is that the application of the law is not always the way it should be. And it's not because, despite the fact that the object is the child's best interest, this object doesn't always settle down, because we disembark when we can't do it if we pose more human and economic means to help families. I would like to remind you that the Amnesty International report on minors at risk and unemployment, cited by Mrs Serra when she asked the question, says: "Children who are placed under the protection system come almost invariably from disadvantaged social sectors, social exclusion and marginalization environments. This situation often contributes to strengthening those mechanisms that remove children from the enjoyment of their right to education and access to health, inter alia, by strengthening the causes of violence, psychosocial diseases and behavioural disorders. Follow him, two conclusions. It's hard for a creature to unmanage if they belong to a family with economic resources, and it's easy for guardianship to only make the problems of this child or young person worse. If we disembark, the first resort should be the extended or welcoming family; ultimately, a family nucleus. If we don't, we're not paying attention to the child's best interests. And if we disembark, the last resort would have to be the centers, but centers in better condition, both for infants and young as for workers, with more public control and with more transparency. In short, and using a phrase from Jaume Funes, childhood expert: "In the last few years, the permanent overflowing of the system... – I add: retailing, lack of resources, political priorities, etcetera, and continuous, what he says –, "it seems to have created a menu of collective consensus in which it seems that everything is worth, while a creature is nourished that would always be, between comets, "It would always be worse at home his own. Or, in the first place, it works often with injury; and, in the second place, we have taken care of the child from home already we give ourselves for satisfaction and satisfaction, without taking into account what happens later. For all these reasons, the motion submitted by the CUPs seems relevant to us. A young woman who does not claim the same as ours, as Congressman Fernández said. She's a young woman who doesn't want a model change but wants to improve concrete aspects. We have not made any proposals, we will vote for it. We are pleased to be able to say that we did what we were asked to do yesterday by a worker from a centre. He said to us: "Please – please – be generous, agree. That's what we did. We welcome the fact that it is a matter of substance, for example, in this young man, the subject of workers' and workers' rights, a subject which we also consider crucial and which we have raised in our young man. It also seems to us very opportune, to put another example, to bet for the better of the living conditions of the children as the creation of bodies of participation in the centers, an aspect that we have already gathered in some proposal of previous resolution. And lastly, the creation of life-sustaining teams at the centres, we believe, will be a particularly interesting tool for the lives of the children who are protected. And one aspect that we have not addressed in this young man or in which we have presented our group is that of the unaccompanied minors. This is a serious problem and they think we will need to face it in the immediate future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.225.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. Next, you have the word Serra, to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.226.0	Thank you, President. I don't have much time and, from the reviews, I've commented... but, like... I'd like to point out two, that the Gemma... - you didn't tell them and I thought you'd tell them and you wouldn't tell me, huh? I think we've also won a lot with this environment of making a few kids where babies and babies are liked and stuck together and feel the least they can, improving their food, carrying a person I cook, watching them cook like home, watching them do like home, right? And we've also incorporated the need for these economic parties for extra-school activities, for oci activities, because it's a right, oci, right? Mr. Fernando: Of course I do, of course I need to reform when it is intended to guarantee the exercise of rights. What can never be done is what many – and you also sometimes – do, which is reform to maintain servitude and to maintain slavery; then it is not worth reforming, because that is to cover what is there. But when you reform because the exercise of rights is done, it's done. I can tell you where children and children are better. Children and children are better in a house; in a flat; in a tribe, yes; in a community; in a commune, yes. Children and children are fine when they have a couple, a couple of mothers who are fine. Children are fine when they have healthy barrels, an effective health, a quality education, a ‘dignity, dignity', and a right to do so. Children and children are fine when their families are not exploited by a neoliberal economic system that does not allow them to develop as human beings. Children can't get rid of them when we've made a right and not just a request for a few. Children and children are overjoyed when they can be in accompanied and familiar rights where racism, patriarchy and all this has ceased to exist or does not exist. With this is the CUP - Call Constituent rupturist. I've been breaking up with this; I've been wanting to break up with this for a long time. And that's why I'm saying here: maybe these today's reforms will allow us tomorrow, when we get to this breakup, to be accompanied by many of these children and those children who have survived thanks, among other things, to a team of professionals who are the ones who make these children able – and these children – be the little or many who are happy in the way that they have now touched their lives, that's for sure. We'll have them when we get there at the time of the breakup. So now they can't wait, and now they need this reform...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.227.0	Lady Serra, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.228.0	...for the exercise of your right. I'm already here! [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.229.0	Mrs. Caula, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.230.0	To ask for a separate vote on item 5.a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.231.0	All right, thank you. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.232.0	To ask for a separate vote on item 5.a. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Is that the same? Ah [[the timer riu]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.233.0	Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.234.0	To ask for separate votes from points 1 and 5.c for one side and from the statement of point 5, distances 5a and 6.d for another.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.235.0	You see, separate votes have been requested from points 1, 5.c, which I assume you can vote together. [[Pause.]] Then it came from the 5th and 6th. Right? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Announced from 5, 5a and 6.d. [[Pause.]] All right, then. We'll start by voting together points number one, 5.c, okay? We shall vote together, 1, 5.c, who have said that they can vote together. The vote begins. Points 1, 5.c were approved by 122 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the number five announcement. The vote begins. The number 5 statement was approved by 122 votes in favour, 9 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 5.a. The vote begins. Point 5.a_has been rejected by 36 votes to 70, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 6.d. The vote begins. The 6.d_point was approved by 122 votes in favour, 9 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on the dignity of childcare was adopted by 131 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the revision of the autonomic financing model]] [[302-0108/11]] The twenty-first item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on the revision of the model of autonomous financing, presented Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Andrea Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.236.0	Yes, yes, yes... thank you very much, President. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.237.0	Please, hurry up and be quiet so that the Member can continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.238.0	Thank you very much, President. And first of all thank all the groups that have contributed– Party of Citizens, Socialist Party, and Catalonia Yes it is Pot – to the improvement, to the enrichment of this motion that is presented I would say that with a certain responsibility. A certain responsibility because on the part of the government we already know what there is: there is an independent plan. There's all the cards in the same basket. But I say we have to have an alternative plan, because if you think so much about the right to decide, man, for the meantime, or if it goes wrong with you, I say you should try other options, right? , because if independence goes wrong, you will have missed the opportunity to be managing, to be at this moment deciding where you are deciding things that would affect the community you govern, Catalonia. Then you say: "We approve the budgets with the CUP. And we are already complaining, because we do not have « because we are being robbed, because we do not have..., in short, all these things to which you are paid, all these things that always complain about the Government of Spain. But, man, why don't you do it backwards? Why don't you go with your homework? Why don't you go where the funding system is being decided, debate a good funding model, and then you complain? And they already say they can't approve the budgets because they haven't got that funding model right for Catalonia. That, by the way, we are arguing that the current system is not a good system and that it has to be reviewed, of course, because the LOFCA precisely foresees that there will be such a revision of the funding model, and now that can, now that is the time, be the opportunity at which it should be done. I regret that the groups of the Government do not have this alternative plan, that they have trusted all their options to one thing. And if they get it wrong, what? Who will suffer from all this? All the Catalans that you are not going to attend to because you refuse, because you are leaving office in order not to attend all those negotiations in the council..., finally, you have to go, to the committee of experts that has been appointed and that, by the way, I hope and wish..., look, they already have twelve hours left, but appoint the expert to go to that committee of experts that was decided at the conference of autonomous presidents on January 17th so that this new model of autonomous financing can be formulated. I appreciate it... and I think we've done a good job. As the government leaves office, the rest of this chamber and the rest of this group have done their work, and they say to them, "Hey, why can't we discuss a funding model? Why are we not going to be able to be represented by all Catalans at those meetings, at those conferences where things are discussed – which I think, man, should all be interested in – "on education, on energy poverty, on dependence, on social services, on our pension system? To all that you do leave functions, because you are with your plan, the independence plan. But I insist: if it goes wrong, what? They will have missed the opportunity to discuss all these issues. That is why I thank the amending groups, I believe that we have finally achieved a text that reflects that need and predisposition for us to discuss what I believe is of interest to all Catalans and which is the reality, which is not their epic, which is not their story, which are the accounts and not the stories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.239.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Levy. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.240.0	Thank you, Madam President. I think they'll share with me what this is a definitely kafkia debate. Mirin, you, the Group of the People's Party, which has ruled and ruled Spain and which has blocked the renewal of the autonomous financing system that should be in force, which should have changed since the 1st generation of 2014, sees us here with a responsible attitude; and the Group of Junts for the Yes, which governs the Government of the Generality, which should be the most interested in improving the tax receipts of this country, turns out to take a voyeur's position, if it's all from an outing, as if not with them. Honestly, kafkià. Our group could have taken a very clear position: the Group of the European People's Party – which has very little authority, sincerely, to put forward what it has put forward –, we abstain from this question, we vote against it and it is already there. But no, we believe that our responsibility has been to intervene in this debate and try to focus on what I think will eventually happen. And it is better that it passes in a transparent way than that it passes through this way that Mr. Junqueras has set out and posed in fashion, that it consists of speaking in castle in intimacy perfectly with this double life that he has politics, that makes the mornings raise a very strong attitude; but, in change, then, when he has to talk to Mr. Montoro, for example, how the remedy of deficiency is renewed around 2016– and which explains it: "we have to pay the providers–, he has an absolutely responsible attitude. So, well, we've pointed to the second way, to the second life of Mr. Junqueras, to the responsibility of the political government, and that's why we've presented these papers. These statements have a very clear sense. All of us here know that to make the social policies that we need to cut back on resources. And that's why there are only two ways: either to make a tax reform, which you are not able to pull forward, or to approach a model of alternative autonomous financing. It is true that there is the path of independence that you are planting, but they accept that, at least for 2017 and 2018, at least in this stage, this will not be so. And, therefore, we should all try to find sufficient resources to pull it out. And this is the layout we've done and we've done trying to collect the best experiences. Because if someone has modeled the current model of autonomous financing, you know that there have been the different governments of the Generality. Without this government it would not have been possible, with a certain perverse situation, that when we have raised something everyone has criticized it and when it has succeeded everyone has pointed out himself in the matter of comparing, the comparative burden. That's why we've been trying to focus. The first thing we've done is ask him, with a message to the People's Party, to swallow the opportunistic element of quoting here the conference of presidents, because we think it's a different thing. We don't believe much in the presidents' conference either, we think the president should have been there. I'm a trade unionist, and I think it's gotta be in every cell until the last minute, but that's my thing. There was no such thing, but the truth, frankly, as are the conferences of presidents in this country, are instruments that the government uses to return, all of them, when they are interested, and therefore from this point of view, that is why we have asked for it. But, in change, we have proposed alternatives that I think are the ones that can be placed. First, we must be-here, to the Tax and Finance Policy Council. And, certainly, the government cannot use this theme from a partisan point of view, represents the conjunction of Catalonian citizenship, represents this chamber; we believe it must be to defend the interests of the citizens of Catalonia, even in relation to the autonomous financing of the own years. If independence or federal state is achieved later, it is now; but for the time being, we have to do it, we have to do it in this area. We have to demand a bilateral treaty, and we have set it up as a slogan. And you, the Group of Joints for the Yes, should be applauding with the gorges, because the People's Party is voting in favour and you accept that the establishment of bilateral negotiating spaces between the Government of the State and the Government of the Generality is the one you are asking for. We got it from us, and you don't like it. This is because, moreover, this is the issue that has always worked, because everyone knows that the councils..., that autonomous financing agreements have been achieved for two lifetimes: to the multilateral space of the Fiscal and Finance Policy Council; but, before and after that, they are areas of bilaterality, and that is why we put them there. I, lastly, the subject of experts. Miri, this is where I, Mr. Junqueras, sincerely believe that you, with your ability to characterise it, are mistaken. It can't be. We cannot be the only autonomous community that is not only not politically, but does not accept that there is an expert, which many autonomous communities have named through their Parliament. You might say that I don't name it the government but that I name it the Parliament and we agree and find it in this area. Above all, when the great experts in the model of autonomous financing are all Catalans. It's the whole group of company Antoni Castells, Maite Vilalta, Montse Bassols, Nouria Bosch..., we have the best people to do these things, and, in turn, we give up doing it. And, frankly, the thing that you've done to us to use friend Guillem López Casasnovas, who is the Balears expert, to, through here, negotiate with the shadow and in a little transparent way on this subject, no. I, lastly, we want to be there. Look, if you don't want to be there, you don't, but at least you accept that Parliament appoints an expert, and at least you clearly accept that Parliament can play an important role. We're not just playing the Catalan government premise, we're playing the catalan faves of our own years. That's the point. And maybe someone can think of me as naive, I know that from then on I can have 200,000 tweets saying that I voted with the PP I don't know what, but, me, in front of everything... [[Funnel veils]] – Yes, Mr Junqueras, first of all – first of all, I will not tell you that tax reform does not do so with the votes of the PP and Ciutadans; first of all, the interests of the citizens of Catalonia. We've tried to be responsible. We believe that the successful candidate can vote, that you should vote, and, if not, that you will decide on some mechanism for the Parliament of Catalonia to intervene in the issue of the model of autonomous financing, because this is something you cannot dispose of as if it were a private good, it is a common good of all the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.241.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Next, the words of Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.242.0	Thank you, President. Well, as Congresswoman Levy said, we have also presented some papers to try, so bring some more elements to this young man. And I have to say he surprised us, too, right? , the attitude of the People's Party, which wanted to enter, somehow, to... [[Funnel veils]] Yeah, that's the dialect, isn't it? , appear in this young man and that the joint work between two institutions that often or, sometimes, therefore, seems not to be talking too much, as at least with this subject we can pose in a table or, at least, see if we are able to improve things. Our reviews have been on the line, first of all, to find that we should have had a new funding system by the year 2014. Since 2014, it is said, Mr Junqueras, that we have lost the opportunity to have more tickets to devote not only to social investment, but also to economic recovery, for example. If we had been able, among others, to negotiate a new financing system – which is pending since 2014, then – we would probably have more resources than we would have allowed ourselves to devote to social policies or economic policies these resources. But the truth is, since 2014, we've been on this for three years. Therefore, this is a finding worth making, because it seems to me to be a certain irresponsibility on the part of the Government. And I'm talking about the government of Catalonia because I'm in Parliament and who we're asking for an explanation is the government of Catalonia. The deputies are in opposition, our job is to control the government and the proposal to the government. Therefore, I can't say it... – or I'll say it on the touch – to Mr. Rajoy; but, in any case, today, let's say it, obviously, to the Government of Catalonia. You have not wanted to negotiate since 2014 – you have not wanted to negotiate. And, therefore, we find ourselves with a financing model – we find ourselves with a financing model – that has expired and that no one has been able to renew. What do we ask of our examinations, which have been approved and which, therefore, we are not satisfied? So, that the Government..., which has started a new paradigm, this Government has started a new paradigm, which is that it only represents and only represents defence and only speaks for a few Catalans: for seventy-two Members – which is always what you say, it represents seventy-two Members– well, not all are Catalans, and then some Catalans. When the President of the Generality and this government is the one of all Catalans, but we have changed the paradigm. In this legislature, it has changed its paradigm, and the government does not defend all Catalans but defends its own, those who voted them. This is a new paradigm very little democratic, for another band. I hope in this one..., or not, I don't expect it. If you ever make this new country, I hope this changes a little, because a president of the Generality is of all Catalans. And you, who are Vice President, and you, Mr. Romeva, who are Councillor, are of all Catalans. And you're using partyistically... [[Funnel veils]] – yes, and so much, and so much... –, the issue of autonomous financing in propi benefits. What you should do, as those responsible who are from this country, is see 'in the Tax and Finance Policy Council and work for a new financing system that will have to improve yes or yes the Catalan tickets. Because, listen to me, he'll be here by now: I need to check the system, I need to see how it's going to get better. It's true, Catalonia makes more efforts than other autonomous communities and less than it does... Yes, we can agree on many things, and we need to change this funding system, but it's that you don't make any gestures, it's that you don't want to change it, because you're in another scene. But today we are here, today Catalonia is in the situation that it is. And what I'm sure we can change is the funding system, and so what it does is work in that sense. And if after you, in parallel, want to work with other scenes, do it. But, listen, today we can get tax reform tickets, which they don't want, we've already seen with the assumptions, but, among other things, changing the financing system. Therefore, listen to me, we ask you to participate in these multilateral spaces, in these tax and financial policy councils, and also, why not? Sending experts to this commission that has to work on this line. As Mr. Coscubiela said, we have great experts who have always helped us improve the financing system, and I don't know why you have fallen arms in this sense. And then another important element that we have also raised and that joins the movement, which is that the bilaterality between the Government of the Generality and the Government of Spain must also be worked on. And we believe absolutely in that sense. And so... and that's why I want to thank Congresswoman Levy for the belt she's wearing, because she's incorporating this bilaterality element. Therefore, there must be a will of this in the People's Party, because, if not, I understand that these points that we have tabled in Catalonia would not have been approved. Yes, it is Pot and the Socialist Party. And why don't we take advantage of it – why don't we take advantage of it – and look forward to a little? And there is another element that will appear in this young man, if he approves, and so much so, that it is a follow-up that should be done to this Parliament from the government's task. Because the opposition task is to control the government. And, therefore, one of the tasks is that you improve the entrances, the resources, through, among other things, the financing system; therefore, that we can follow up would be the reasonable one. So, listen, this young man is talking about more resources, more resources, and he's talking about working from the dialogue and the loyalty between two institutions that have to be done is to improve the reality of the citizens of his country. And, in your case, Catalans and Catalans. And not to do it is to disrespect the Catalans, and not to do what you touch them. And I'm telling you, this new paradigm that you've created is a little democratic. My aim is to fix this error because no – no – is for the benefit of the country neither Catalans nor Catalans. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.243.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Next, the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.244.0	Mr Junqueras, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen... Vice-President, Mr Junqueras, you have become a hindrance to all Catalans. When there's half the Chamber that you want to talk about funding, you're the plug. You now, the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, are the ones who are avoiding, with your immobile, obstructive attitude, you are preventing that in Catalonia we have a better, fairer, or, at least, that we talk about it. Because you just want to talk about what concerns you about independence, and that's it. And it's his book and it's his road map, and in the meantime, if we don't have enough means to finance social services, education, health, complain, it's Spain's fault, but we're leaving. And you are avoiding – avoiding – that we get better funding. In the meantime, you guys are playing independence. And, hey, I think we should take a little advantage now that the People's Party is moving, after so many years still with its absolute majority. Not to say the..., we feel a little..., well, we're going to take a little credit for this too... [[remorse of the voice]] , that in the investment agreements we said to you: "Move, negotiate, open the melon of autonomous financing, do not be hostage to your territorial baronies, and I am pleased that you have done so – I am glad that you have done so. It is a pity that when we have decided we have here the cap of the Government of the Generalitat, which does not want, simply does not want to negotiate. You do not want to negotiate, you do not attend the conference of presidents, from there comes an appointment of experts and you do not appoint any experts from Catalonia so that you can say what works well and badly from this funding system for Catalonia. You don't name anyone, you don't want to go there, you don't want to go and argue, you don't want to really explain things; you just settle for making mantras and demagogy to the Catalans. Too bad. The fact is that in those forums that you don't want to go to, not only are we talking about funding, we're talking about many more things too, which we also... There is talk of employment and talk of many more things in which Catalonia is also absent. And that is, allow me, a way of passing from the global, from the big, from the complex, to the local, from the small and from the simple. The things that go best... humanity has thrived on the basis of complex societies that are organized. If we lock ourselves in, if we are not able to talk to the rest of our fellow citizens, if we are not able to talk, we will be unable to move forward – we will be unable to move forward. And you don't want to talk, and you prefer separation and subtraction, to union and sum. You are like this, you are satisfied with the small and the immobile. That, let me tell you, is anti-politics. I mean, you don't come here to not move yourself, you don't come here to be a plug; you come here to solve the problems of Catalans, but it doesn't matter, because you are in something else. Finally, the opportunities you lose for Catalans, the money you may be losing with a better funding system for all Spaniards, the opportunities, the..., everything you should encourage from the government, you are losing it. And I tell you one thing: we are already in Congress working for a better funding system for all Spaniards, and with that we have also dragged the People's Party, to speak. [[Widow's remorse.]] Do not be yourselves, please, the obstacle so that we can negotiate a better system of financing for all. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.245.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Carrizosa. Then, to fix his position, has the word Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.246.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, it's obvious that the young man is taking part in this new dial operation. Maybe someone was hoping for something else, a little more concrete than the proposal; but no. He's on the line he's been to so far. Just sit down at the table and we'll be gone by now. Assora's table, in other contexts, has value for itself, when the parties recognize a little of mutual credibility, when there is political will, but we know that talking about reforming finance with the People's Party government is a dead end. You yourself, the Catalan People's Party, you know, when your previous president set it up in 2013 and was quickly disenfranchised at that time. One of the reactions was that of the still Minister of Hisenda, Cristóbal Montoro, who said the following. Diu : 'New autonomous financing is a distribution, and what are we going to distribute if we do not have growth or increase in tax bases? Under these conditions, the dialog is not credible. Because you, when you feel strong do the order and command, and when you have to deal with major parliaments or when you see that independence is going in earnest, then yes, then dial. Lucky we're vaccinated, and we're vaccinated, for your own words. In 2005, the FAES published The fraud of goodism, a free collection, with authors such as Andrés Ollero, who all points out that he will be the proper president of the Constitutional Court thanks to a pact of the PSOE with the PP ; Xavier Pericay, who is the final leader of the list of Ciutadans to the Balearic Islands ; Miquel Porta Perales, who titles his chapter « Dialogue as a therapy buenista, or the coordinator of the volume, Valentí Puig, who lets one of the best sentences go, follow it: « Since everyone is good, dialogue is everything arranged. That's an ahistoric, judgmental conception. And we think that this is the true attitude of the PP to the dialect, when he claims that Catalonia continues to talk, for example, about financing. It is a pure maneuver of distraction, a pure dilatory maneuver, from which no new agreement will emerge. And we understand it perfectly, because we know that a State that has a debt that exceeds one hundred per cent of its GDP; that cannot issue currency and that the European Union also claims 5,000 million external retails and that does not want to touch, for another, the privileges of the oligarchy of this State, of the bank, of the energy companies, of the telecommunications companies, of the builders, a state in these conditions is a state with a structural crisis. The Spanish State, as it is designed for the regime of 78, is to say, as it is now, that it cannot bear a better share of the Catalan financing, neither of the Islands nor of the Valencian Country, which are now legitimately posing this claim on the table. Catalonia was created by a political and social majority that supported the reform of the Statute in 2005 and 2006, but there remains the renewal of the better of the financing system or the additional third provision. But we are now in a new phase; the majority for a new status and a new funding has not left an independent social majority, and the best operation is to confront ideas in a campaign, that of "no" and that of "yes". Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.247.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. The words "Mr. Josep Maria Forné", of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí, follow.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.248.0	Good evening. Thank you, President. Vice President, councillor, deputies and deputies, we celebrate a lot of this young man, of course. And we celebrate it for which we are feeling, because we feel that yes, there is a awareness that things are not going well, that there is no just financing system and that needs to be reviewed. Well, that's changing a lot of things, they've changed the scenes. Because the truth is that this music and the letter didn't feel it at all, there's something that's moved. It must not have moved – it must not have moved – because of the modest position that some groups occupy, here of opposition and there pure appearance. There must have been no movement for this; then we'll talk about it; surely it's not for that. But, well, let's celebrate that there's a change of perspective, let's celebrate that there's a change of position. Therefore, welcome to this vision that things have not gone well. Agafo a few words from our company Muriel, who soon made a year that died, Muriel Casals, said: "The authorities of the Spanish State have subdued this country to certain conditions that asphyxiate it economically and deny it nationally. And one way to asphyxiate it economically is the financing system. Therefore, acknowledge that there is this asphyxiation... thank you, welcome. Now, if you want to start working with these good intentions, if you want to start, you have forty-six tasks to do before they are entrusted to you and they are simply..., they are nothing but incompletions, resources, transfers, which we could improve..., [[remorse of the voice]] Yes, we could improve very much the conditions of all Catalans, of the lives of all Catalans. Therefore, there is no more work, and it is more well-appointed. This is where we could start. We also celebrate the discussions a lot; the discussions especially of the Socialists, of the Socialist Group, and of the Catalonian Group Yes, it is Pot, and especially I want to thank the effort made by Congressman Joan Coscubiela to try to incorporate us, because he was only the one who tried to try to incorporate us into these discussions. You must also want to say a little how to use the tools, say, of the motions, not so much to achieve results but to make gestures and to achieve nothing but postureig. So, in this sense, thank you. And, especially, of the papers, thank him for the fact of rescheduling bilaterality. A dialog... – the Albert, the company of the CUP, said earlier – a sincere dialog goes by assembling 'without the recognition of someone else as equal, and that's bilaterality. At least – at least – there's a little effort on this side. This way, welcome the young man, welcome the intentions, and welcome... but there's still work to be done. Unfortunately, we have to tell you that we reject the four points. [[remorse of the voice]] ; we reject the four points because the first one, which simply says that it is to expose and publicize a series of data..., goes, more public than they are on the website of the Department of the Vice-President and of Economy and History and that it knows everyone and that if not, then somehow it can be achieved through other public resources, both from the Generality and from the State; publishing data and knowing data does not seem to us... We seem that the political content of the motion is in the other points, in which the participation is demanded and which has already been noted, therefore, what we say, is persecuting this motion. Why don't you take this part? Or, why do we think we don't? Look, we've had five financing models since 85, 91, 96, 2001, 2008. In all of them Catalonia, the Generalitat, the Government of the Generalitat has been quite the leader of these funding changes. We see how things have been. Having memory is also something that helps build. And in this sense, we didn't make it. We don't want to interfere with anyone's interests, especially those who have the most difficulties, such as Valencia and the Islands, with their financing models; sometimes, because you say Catalonia, it's simply an obstacle. There are absences that speak more than certainly presences, there are silences that are more expressive than indeed words, in fact, look if it gives if the fact that there has not been, the President of the Generality, to the conference. And it's worth it. You know, we don't give up anything, and we think that if there's any benefit to having Catalonia's citizenship, it's through having a good state. And this will be the effort we put in. We don't give up anything; we don't give up anything because everything is possible. The pact cannot be based on the need to survive, which is what we have been doing so far, but it must be an expression of sovereignty and affirmation. We don't give up anything because it's all about doing. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.249.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Forné. Next, Mrs. Andrea Levy will rule on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.250.0	Thank you very much, as has been shown, to the parliamentary groups that have taken a responsible attitude, especially Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, Socialist Party, also to Citizens. That was the responsibility of everyone in this chamber to improve the text, because it has been shown, oh, surprise, that by dialogue one can reach agreements. I know that we have agreed on different parliamentary groups. It has been possible, dialogue operation, yes; consensus operation. We have achieved this, it has been achieved in a motion that affected something that also has the majority consensus of Catalan society, that is, that we should work on an improvement of the financing system. So, what have you done? Deny dialogue. Because, do you know your problem? , that you feel very comfortable in the monologue when you are here, when you are between your environment, between your media, between your acts, but when you face different positions, when you have to talk, when it comes to dialogue, you feel nothing comfortable because you run out of story – you run out of story. And that was what it was about, to put on the table issues that could raise agreements that we were talking about, it was about reaching agreements. They don't like deals, they prefer to keep dragging us on this..., finally on this trip nowhere. I'll give you one thing. What's not going anywhere is not moving. You'll find yourself at the same point, turning over yourself, but, you know what? They'll keep finding us. They will continue to find us those who want to do what we want to do is work to improve the lives of Catalans. What we want to do is continue to work for everyone's well-being. I deeply regret that you like to hear the echo of your own voice when you fill rooms in the European Parliament, rather than listening to all of us who want to propose a calm, necessary dialogue on what affects the lives of Catalans. I'm sorry that you're still in the story and that you don't want to introduce us to the accounts. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.251.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Levy. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Vice President, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.252.0	Multiple direct allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.253.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.254.0	Very briefly. There have been several spokespersons who have based their argument on ensuring that we do not attend the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, which is absolutely false. And if the use of their interpretations is false, it doesn't mean that they are their interpretations. Too bad. [[Some applause. Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.255.0	Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.256.0	Yes, because of contradictions. [[Pause.]] Thank you. Mr Junqueras, there had to go the vice president, the economic adviser of our autonomy. You had to go. He sent someone else and that person couldn't even vote. That's like not going. [[Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.257.0	Mr. Coscubila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.258.0	Yes, thank you, President. Friend Junqueras, friend vice president, leave us a little Germany duels. The important thing: we need the Catalan government to be in the negotiation process of the autonomous financing model that is on the way, we need a Catalan expert there and we need the Catalonian Parliament to follow this function. Because what we don't want out of the way is that you, this, negotiated under my hand, in the afternoons, in the castle, talking to him in the intimacy and enjoying the presence of a good friend of ours, which is said Guillem López Casasnovas, who goes there on behalf of the government to dance, but not on our behalf. Please, do things a little good. [[Alice Romero Llano asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.259.0	Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.260.0	Yes, President. No, I meant that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.261.0	Why ask me the word? For allusions? Contradictions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.262.0	Yes, because of contradictions. In any case, the vice president has come back, because he has not intervened to the judge.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.263.0	No, no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.264.0	For contradictions – for contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.265.0	I'm sorry, the vice president didn't open the door, he spoke as a congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.266.0	Ah! , as the deputy. All right. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.267.0	But I give the word because I gave it to everyone. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Yeah, and as long as it is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.268.0	Okay. In any case, for contradictions – for contradictions. I'm the one who'd want to... that's to say... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.269.0	He spoke because he asked for the word for allusions as a deputy, and I give it to him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.270.0	All right. I told Congressman Forné not to give up anything. Miri, I do give up. Give up not negotiating a new funding system, and that means giving up having more resources because Catalans can have better sanitation, better education. Give it up, you guys. Because they have created a new paradigm, which is to defend seventy-two members and a part of the Catalans, and the President of the Generality and Vice-President Junqueras must keep in mind that they represent all the Catalans and that one of their obligations today is to go there to defend the best financing system for the Catalans. And that's what you don't do. And that's irresponsible. [[Greetings. Josep Maria Forné and Febrer ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.271.0	Mr. Furné.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.272.0	For allusions. [[Pause.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.273.0	Yeah, yeah, come on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.274.0	We... all governments represent, with their majority, the conjunction of the citizenry, and that is what all governments do. And the best way we have to achieve the greatest benefit for all of Catalan citizenship is to achieve full sovereignty for this country. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-09-2902.275.0	Vote. Since no separate votes have been called, we shall vote for the whole House. The vote begins. The motion on the revision of the autonomic finance model was rejected by 60 votes in favour, 68 against and no abstentions. Thank you all very much. And the session goes up.
