ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. [[Question to the Government on youth entrepreneurship]] [[300-00157/11]] The new item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on youth entrepreneurship presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Lord David Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.2.0	Thank you, Members, President, Councillor. Look, I want to talk about Sergi today. In Sergi he is a twenty-eight year old from Masnou, who works on his own, but he had always wanted to set up his own company. And that's why he went to the administration to ask, so information to see what he could do, and from there, they told him there was a series of training courses. And he said, "Perfect. But what was his surprise, that these training courses could only be filled in the morning, with which he could not attend. Still, in Sergi he was able to organize himself to attend these training courses, and then he started his processes to be able to create his company through Action. But what was your surprise again? That when he starts to create all these processes, they make him turn from one side to another, and, moreover, to those concrete questions that he needed for his company, personalizations, could not give him an answer. But, well, he set up his company, and one time, so, he already started his development, he needed a follow-up, and he went back to the administration and asked if he could get help. I, from the generality, said to him: "Yes, we have some follow-up programs. And in Sergi he said: "All right, so I'll take part in it. But what was your surprise? That these programs, in the end, were no use to him. And like Sergi, there are many young people in Catalonia. And I wanted to bring you this news. [[the orator shows the chamber a full]] , because it is very enlightening, its holder, in that it says that 46_percent of young Catalans are planning to create their own company. And that's a lot of good news; it's a lot of good news because it means young Catalans have concerns, it means young Catalans want to create their professional project. Therefore, we have very qualified young people and we also have young people who want to create their professional project. So that's why today is so important this question about young enterprise. And as with the opposition, it is our responsibility, too, to convey our vision and our proposals so that we can reactivate the economy and so that we can enhance the business fabric we have in Catalonia. As you know, the young people of our society are a collection that has suffered a lot and a lot during the crisis, and this has materialized in a high rate of maturity. It is true that in the last few days, therefore, this tax has decreased, but we are still a long way from the European media; so this is one of the main concerns of our young people. And that's why their department, counselor, together with others, must visualize the realities that exist, must visualize the needs that have and must bring the necessary solutions to reverse the situation. And here it is, the different administrations have to give the necessary support and have to put the concrete tools so that they can help to develop all these professional projects. But what's the reality? So the reality is that administration too many times ends up being part of the problem and not part of the solution. The current model produces what generates are times of crisis, as we have seen, with a high number of matures, and also generates job insecurity, which, on the one hand, involves the temporality of their contracts and also a high left-handedness. And what we want is, precisely, to make a radical change in this model and move towards the knowledge economy, in which concepts such as "business" are already linked to the education system, for example, from primary to university. And at the same time, to encourage, therefore, not only education, but to encourage innovation, to encourage research and to encourage technological transfer. And I will give you a very concrete example: Miri, our parliamentary group at the Congress of Deputies has managed to introduce 500_million euros to the general assumptions of the State in reverse in the Cervera Network. We would like to know, in this case, if you would also participate in this network and if you would help the Eurecat integrate there. Let's hope that what they don't do is leave the fall empty and lose the opportunity to be decisive in all these changes that will take place in the future. In any case, a phone element to change this model produced are the entrepreneurs: we believe that they are a key piece to advance towards this new model. And they have to donate integration facilities, don't they? Now the example of the Red Cervera was set; therefore, it was easy to integrate into these networks. It will not be possible to change this model if we do not count on all these young Catalans who want to start and who want to create their own personal project. But to change the product model we have to do, first of all, it's to change the environment, and it's to create a business ecosystem in which all this activity is developed. And this is where you, the Government of the Generality, have the necessary mechanisms to do so. What? So, many ways; but, for example, eliminating bureaucracy and administrative crossings. But what's the reality? So, these existing programs are not effective, they are not illusionary, all the contrary: the lack of knowledge. What these programs are supposed to do is take the young entrepreneurs from the hand, it's to elude them and it's to encourage them, and it's not to create a web page where there's a series of programs and where they're going to go through pants like we're playing Mario Bros. Eventually, before yesterday, we received an answer from his council, in which he spoke of the compliment of some of the motions that our group has presented, on issues of entrepreneurs and on issues of entrepreneurs, and it was about the famous single window. And in this answer, you were talking about the installation of new unique windows in different municipalities. And we, counselor, rejoice, seem good news; but the question is, what is the amount of paperwork that these windows make? What is its effectiveness? Because what we know is that when young people go to these windows, when there's some way that it's not municipal, they start their hatred; when they ask questions more than generics, they start their problems, or their projects are blocked for lack of very specific documentation or concrete processing. And then I would also like to ask him: how can it be that, within these nine hundred municipalities, there is not yet the city of Barcelona? , which is precisely where the most people there are, is precisely where the most entrepreneurs and young people who want to create their professional project there are, where there is an interrelationship of start-ups, where there are international events of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs. What's going on? Why isn't there, yet, this unique window? And then there's the question of the programs, which we talked about before. And I'm telling you, counselor, there are programs that are interesting, yes, we recognize it. But do you know what the problem is? So most young people who can be part of these programs don't know the programs. Therefore, you have a communication problem, you have a disclosure problem, you have an information problem. You communicate very well according to what questions, but on such an important subject as entrepreneurship do not do it in the right way. Plus, obviously... apart from its effectiveness. Because surely you will talk to me about the "Consolid't" program. All right, but do you have any data to participate in this program? Do you have any satisfaction data? Because if I don't remember correctly, this year will be the third edition of this program. In short, counselor, what we ask of you, from Ciutadans, is that you use resources and that you believe those tools that really serve the people you need and that you can get to the conjunction of the needy. What Sergi asks, what young entrepreneurs ask, is that the administrations are agile, is that the administrations can give them solutions to their problems, not just to the general problems with which anyone can be found and which can be found on any web page. What we expect is that the programs aren't just a marketing operation, but that you believe them to be true, that you implied them to be true. And that's why we need to create this new ecosystem that we've been talking about, that some, since the opposition, have been working and proposing for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.3.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mejía. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.4.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, honourable Member. Good morning to everyone, and also good morning to Sergi, this twenty-eight-year-old businessman of the Masnou who has many wills to make plans. And it's important, and regardless of where it is, regardless of the age you have, and regardless of what you want to do, the important thing is basically that you have projects, because it's the project and it's the quality of the project that will determine whether you're finally pulling forward or not. You said to us: "He went to a training course and was done in the morning. Well, there are training courses that are fan in the morning, depending, especially, whether it's for workers or it's for young people who are tired or it's for young people that..., and there are courses that are fan, also – also – in the afternoons and other hours, and there are courses that are fan, so, distance and online. Because if the main ones..., if the world's leading universities do online courses and online training, I don't see that I can have, nor can I, anything bad, that you can do online training. Then he goes..., he says: « He had problems to do, to create his company. Depén – depén –: if it is creating a society, if it is creating an entity, in two days it may have done so. And it was a process of simplifying the creation of societies because it was very easy to create this society. And it was a law, the Law 16/2015, that for most activities that are neither harmful to the environment, nor with risks for public health or for people is very easy, very simple and simple to create this society, because what it is doing, precisely, is giving confidence to the city, giving confidence to that entrepreneur because he can open the activity, and making only a communication to the Administration, from here, this Administration, then, will already investigate it, but he can start without problems. And, besides, what is intended, with this law, is to harmonize all the municipal regulations and the different municipal regulations so that it is not very different to set up a company in Masnou than to set up a company, for example, in Mataró. That there's a good tax on... then he talked about the Single Business Window. The Single Business Window..., now we have 905, of municipalities– 905–, and we are going to grow because there are fifteen there are negotiations, and we will have 920. We're missing twenty-seven, that's true. We say we're on the right path, we don't... like we have 905 out of 947, we don't say it's a success, no, no: we're on the right path, because we're missing Barcelona, obviously. The law says that all municipalities have to be in the single window and have to have a single business window, and therefore we work and are working, too, with the Barcelona City Council, because they are incorporated. I have no doubt that the Barcelona Assembly will join, and..., what happens is that the difficulties we have and that the Barcelona Assembly has, because it has a high number of passages, are superior to those that can have other meetings, but the Barcelona Assembly will be at the unique window. He says, "Whom do you think you're doing? So, look, there are more than five hundred petitions, and not only from the Generality: there are no local administrations and no State Administration. And the only business window is not the way they do it or stop doing it, but it's an entry channel, which, from here on out, moves and moves together, and that's what's happening. And the majority of – as it's evolving, huh? – processing that can be done, can already be done online. In fact, 73 per cent of all the processes that are done are online, start and finish, and this is our will. And are we satisfied with that? No, because we wanted it to be total, but we're moving on, we're moving on and on. You spoke, too, in your inquiry, of 46 per cent of young people who want to make a entrepreneurial project. And that's good, and that goes with a reality; that's to say, when every year the annual business tax comes out, so there were times when that tax has increased, and it has increased in a way that could lead us to be content, but then it would add a reality. The reality is that one is a contractor by obligation: has he lost his job and has to be self-employed or has to be a contractor for what? , by obligation. And that happened – many cases. Now, fortunately, we have a business tax that seeks, basically, opportunity. That means you see a business, you see a business, you see a business, you see a growth opportunity, and from that growth opportunity, so you decide to pull a project forward, it's a project... you said it and you said it right: it's a life project. Because being an entrepreneur is a lot more – it's a lot more – than doing a business, it's dedicating yourself there, because you have to think, you have to work, you have to curse, you have to see that, if you have problems, then, then, then, as solutions, and, therefore, it's not the disconnection of when you just work and no longer think about it, but think about it constantly. I, from here on out, how does it promote this entrepreneurial aspect? So, basically, with training actions, with training actions, and with awareness actions– basically. And these awareness actions start for schools and start for institutes. There are already more than two thousand students who are taking classes..., in fact, ESO can already sort out an optional assignment that is Entrepreneurship; we have vocational training a program, called "innovation in vocational training", which is to help make innovative projects and make entrepreneurial projects, such as the Innova FP; we have other projects to promote entrepreneurship at the same high school and also at universities. We're doing it. What else? Counselorship. You say: « The Sergi perhaps... Miri, the Sergi, through the Catalonia Emprên network, the Masnou, or the Maresme County Council, surely has advisors and trainers who are specially directed and specially trained to help the Sergi in iron, in driving this project. If they have doubts about what they want to do, if they have doubts about how to value their entrepreneurial project, if they have doubts about how to look for finance, if they have doubts about how to do all these things. And this is one of the most important parts of the Catalonia Empren program, which is to give capillary to the formation of entrepreneurs of the territory, and this we do: we do it through the services, 376 entities and 1,800 you serve all of Catalonia, in an absolutely capillary way. And that's what we do, too, to encourage entrepreneurial hope, because it's important, because because because there are entrepreneurs there must be people, there must be young people who want to start. Last year we made a specific program, an innovative program, which we did..., we organized the iFest. The iFest, we made it to the Arenas and the Fira de Barcelona, in Montjuïc, to the Palau de Congresos: three_thousand young– three_thousand young. We barred young people who were in vocational training, young people who were in college, young people who were in institutes who were beaten; we barred them, of different ages, to make entrepreneurial projects, projects of entrepreneurship. It was a success. This year we'll have six thousand and we'll do it at Palau Sant Jordi on November 30th. Therefore, this – this – is the task that we, like the Government, do in entrepreneurship, especially in awareness of entrepreneurship: at schools, at institutes and also at universities. But we do more things, we do things with support. And here, again, the Xarxa Emprên: 300 support technicians who have helped all of Catalonia – all of Catalonia – to create, for example in 2016, more than 2,800 companies, 2,800 companies that are entrepreneurial projects. This isn't a project anymore, it's no longer an idea, it's a reality, and the reality is: we had an idea, we wanted a project; we went to be advisors for 109 entities that participate and that we subsidize and support through the Enterprise Network; one of these 330 support technicians... that are all over the place, huh? Now we're going to make a special program for young entrepreneurs in the most depopulated communities and mountain communities, because we think it's still more necessary there to have entrepreneurial projects than to fix people and fix young people in their territories. But then, information campaigns? All the way – all the way – from young offices to young offices – young offices give a lot of information –..., and also through help. You talked about the youth guarantee programmes; so, yes, the help to self-occupation of the youth guarantee fund: 3,3_million euros that have benefited five hundred young people. Thank you. Keep going.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. I have the word Mr. Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.6.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, you have started your intervention talking about courses, which also have courses adapted for other times. So Sergi didn't have this fate, and it's a real example. Therefore, we can review a small number of these times so that we can adapt them to the full range of young people who can get these courses. After you spoke of the creation of entrepreneurs, of the agility that there is at the time of creating businesses, that in two days... But if I am not talking to you about if you need the CIF, of if you need to register the name, of if you need a current account, of if you need to give high social security. What I'm talking about is the blockage that makes and gives the Administration in concrete cases, and that they don't know how to give answers to concrete questions. For example, if you ask the single window if a person can donate independently if he is working, or if he can capitalize on the event before or after creating the business, they don't know how to give an answer. But what kind of effectiveness is this? So, that's what I'm asking you, not the general procedures that you can do in twenty-four, forty-four hours; I'm asking you for the personalized problems that you can have each of the young entrepreneurs, that you can have Sergi or any other young entrepreneur. He was also talking about the one-of-a-kind window, as I was saying. I ask you: you have had a compromise to develop the whole law from June; we understand that by June the single window will already be installed in Barcelona. Can you compromise this? After that, he was talking about a series of training data, which came to two thousand students. If it's all right, if it's a good one, but are you okay with it? – do you comply with it? Do you think that's enough? Do you think we don't have any more skills or the government doesn't have any more skills to get to more people? You were talking about advertising, about information. Do a bit of self-criticism, please, because the information isn't really up there: if you go out on the street and ask Sergi or ask any young entrepreneur if he knows most of the programs the government offers, he will say no, and those who know them will tell him that they are not effective, that they are not effective for his life project, for his professional project. So, here's something that doesn't work. There are other questions that concern us, because you say that you believe in entrepreneurship, that you work on this issue, but then, if we look at the assumption, we see that the entrepreneurship programs have fallen in line with the previous assumption of EUR 1,200,000_. So, here's a problem. He can explain to us whether it's really... that you can't believe the rest of the government doesn't believe it. Then he was talking to us about the Empren Network. Let's go back to conformism, let's go back to what we think is already done. No; miri, of its assumptions: from 2014 to 2015 there are no data; from 2016, 13,500 people, and from 2017, 15,000. Is this the maximum we can aspire to? Do you know how many young entrepreneurs there are in Catalonia, how many autonomies there are in Catalonia? Other data from your own presupposition. Number of successful restarts: 2016 is not there; 2017 is three-hundred; fixed'salt' I'm telling you: 2017 is three-hundred– this is an estimate. Numbers of successful returns. Let's go back to conformism. And so I could give him a series of craps about his own premise. Therefore, counselor, look, what we give him is that young entrepreneurs... in Sergi feel alone when he wants to create the company and when he needs a follow-up from the Administration. And what we are asking of him, from Ciutadans, is that they do this follow-up, it is that they believe, is that the incentive, is that the illusion to continue with this project of life, with this professional project that many Catalans want to develop in order to develop their professional career. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.7.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mejía. There's a word from Councilman Baiget.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.8.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. MP, obviously the government does self-criticism when it has to do it, and the government always has – always has – this goal and this proposal for better, because it knows that it always has to improve and knows that the better things the government does are better that will benefit Sergi and benefit all citizens, all those people who want – want to – to promote entrepreneurial projects. Miri, you were talking about the Reenterprise project and you said there were no data. Successfully resumed this year: 407 cases, huh? With an investment of EUR 17 million, there were 830 transferees, 1,970 re-entrepreneurs and 1,456 cases. This is the scale of what was done in the Reenterprise project. But you said, "No, we do what we have to do..., or the Generalita makes a lot of publicity in other areas and has no communication, or it does not make enough diffusion or communication in the matter of entrepreneurs. We... we can always get better, but I think we make a good spread, because we make it all over the territory, we make it all over the administration, we make it all over the place... And you enter for a young information point, you enter for the SOC, you enter for a meeting, you enter for a regional council, you enter for some point authorized or linked to the Enterprise Network: all the while you will inform it, from... Plus, the web – which is also an important source of information – Catalonia is one of the most visited websites of the Pages that the Generality has. So, there's interest and it does, and if it's a visit, I think... because it's useful, because, if not, it's not a visitor. Therefore, there are, and is given answer to life projects of the citizens, and is given answer to the life projects of young people; if not, ask it to all these 1,300 pages that are young who have joined the programs of incorporation of young people into agriculture, and who do that, thanks to the support that is given from the Department of Agriculture and, ultimately, from all the government, these young people have also begun to make their vital project in the case of agriculture. So, miri, projects, there is. And we have it, so, in shape... what do you want me to talk about? Support programs? I'm starting with the Emprên Network – I've already told you –: 109 participating entities, 330 support technicians, more than 2,800 businesses created. I can tell you about the agreement with the Council of Cambres to promote entrepreneurship: almost a thousand entrepreneurs at additional meetings. I can talk about the program "Consolidate't, supporting the autonomous work, that in the later edition more than seven hundred autonomous workers... I can talk about the 3,3_millions of youth self-employment aids to the Youth Guarantee program; or also the entrepreneurial programs based on the Youth Guarantee, that are also 3_millions destined for these programs; or the linked programs of pre-acceleration, that are also, technological, that are programs to extend the entrepreneurial concentration effect that is in Barcelona to all the Catalan territory; or also the programs linked to the enterprise, that are also, through the knowledge program, that is, and with the industry of knowledge that each time we want to mobilize the enterprise program; or the programs linked to the enterprise, that are also, technological, that are programs to extend the entrepreneurial concentration effect that is in Barcelona to all the Catalan territory; or the programs associated with the mastery, that are also, and with the industry that we want to memorize the corporate programs; or the mastery; And you could talk about the help and contacts that you make through the private investor network to look for finance, or about direct help – direct help – such as the line of downwards by self-employed, entrepreneurs and small and medium-sized enterprises, which the past year made more than 1,400 operations for an import of €13.4 million, or the loans involved in cultural industries, or the start-ups matching loans, or the loans in business angels. I look, in short, when we make the sum of all this wide list, because of activities and activities they do grow, and many of our programs have boosted the creation of five thousand entrepreneurial projects, and mobilized, last year, some 50 million euros in direct aid to entrepreneurs, with funding lines and grants to specific initiatives to support the creation and consolidation of enterprises. This – this – is the job that this Administration does because every time there are more entrepreneurs in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about capitalism, work and life]] [[300-00162/11]] The desire of the order of the day is: inquiry to the government on capitalism, work and life, presented for the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Mireia Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.10.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Every day it is more empty, this House of Parliament, when we start so much time. Well, today we have an inquiry that is called work, capitalism and life. In fact, the idea of the battle between capital and life brought it several times to the plenary of Parliament. We have talked about public services and the democratization of institutions, the need to have respected territories with logic of human ecology. We have talked about policies and related demands to ensure the lives of refugees facing a quasi-psychotic Europe that closes borders. We have talked about redistributive fiscal policies and many other proposals embedded in this logic of winning the battle between capital and life. Today, at the gates of U de Maig, we want to bring it from the perspective of work. And it's that we understand there's a conflict in Catalonia's economics and labor relations for... we say it's against the living ability of lives that are worthy. Let's get to the dice. While in this House several times there have been repeated mantras such as the downfall of the sky and the improvement of growth, the data do not tell us the same. Some ideas – there would be very many, infinite, but we have the time we have – increase the inactive population. That's one of the things that can explain the decline in the weather. And it increases the inactive population so that a lot of the active population is expelled from the labour market because there is no work and because they end up feeling the enquisition of precariousness and of the twilight, or because they have to leave the country. The employment contract with the Catalan countries grows in a lot of temporality, in relation to the indefinite contract. Attur – no longer in taxes, but in voids – in less than twenty-five years in the Catalan Countries increases to more than 68,467 people, while for more than twenty-five years it rises to more than 856,855 people. They're spherical. In fact, in September 2016 in Catalonia more than 40_percent of people in trouble more than two years who did not work, and more than 50_percent did one year, and more than 24_percent did not receive any subsidies or benefits. Labor Sinistrality– perhaps the most expedient data –: to the Catalan Countries, the year 2016, more than 123 deaths due to labor motius. And if we're talking about wages, well, the data is still pitiful. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the labor cost continued to fall, according to the INE: a minus 0.8_per_cent; however thanks to the convenient collectius returns timidly with a 1.2, also on data of the INE. However, for us, the transcendent fact is one that gave a study of the Workers' Commissions that we had commented to the Workers' Commission, which is that an 11_percent of the workers and Catalan workers are at risk of poverty and work. If we're talking about women, they're tougher. We have sorted a date that seems to us to explain very much the job insecurity of women, that it is retirement pensions that are covered by middle: it is a 38_per_cent lower – this is a middle of the Spanish State, huh? And we're sorting pensions because they have to look at the lowest wages, because they have to look at the worst working conditions, right? , the explanation of other variables that also explain the discrimination of the woman: more part-time contract, glass floor, shorter contract chains, etc. – is perfectly familiar with this phenomenon. The issue of pensions also explains the fact that the woman takes on reproductive and curative jobs that are not considered to be work or have a contizable basis. And it is that we are starting from the obvious fact that these data are not a natural catastrophe, they are the products of certain policies, determined social concertation agreements and a follow-up of agents who, over the years, have put their lives at the service of the interests of speculative economies. In fact, year 75 in the Spanish State adopted the Law of Labour Relations, which was the most guaranteed mark in the rights of workers and workers and which produced a cycle of mobilizations. We cannot fail to quote the famous phrase « Spain has two problems: ETA and the Baix Llobregat, or, citing a company of militancy and one of the best labor lawyers that has this country : « Spain has two problems: ETA and Cornellá. From then until today, a concertation model based on the pactism and the connivance of various agents – government, concertation unions and employers – has involved a history of labor rights. And it is that, moreover, one of the trunk policies of the European Monetary Union from the north, and that the current project of the European Union maintained, is the reduction of the labor cost per worker and the reduction of production costs as one of the economic policies to maintain benefits and to reduce the accumulation cycles of capital in a crisis context. Lower wages and precarious working conditions; it is to say, small and intranscendant lives versus the benefits of large corporations – always large – and as transcendent as they are capable of putting life at stake. Well, what is the generality doing, based on all this analysis? We are aware that the limits in the matter are very much; in fact, all that strong regulation regarding working conditions is state. No matter what, we seem to be able to do more. The first premise is that one of the things that explains the state and precariousness is the lack of diversification of the product texture and that each time we have companies with more profile of speculative capital that, instead of needing labor force and generating wealth that I reverted to the territory, devote more of their activity to speculation. And the second issue is that we start from the idea that the labor force that workers bring to the process produces and does not allow to reproduce life when 'lshi' returns – is to say, it does not arrive at the end of the month – nor is it just that they are retributed because they never retribute to what is produced. That is to say, the difference between what we bring workers and workers with the strength of work and what we get are the benefits that amass the occupants, say, the famous and historic analysis of the most valuable: wealth generated collectively versus accumulated benefits for a few. Of the first premise we will not talk about it in excess; we will put it in motion and will tend to see logics of social economy and cooperative and logics of recovery of the industrial fabric. From the second premise in value that the policies of occupation are not focused from this principle of inequality, but are focused more quickly on a logic that puts the enterprises in the center. I explain: one of the key concepts in this sense is one of the foundations of the SOC Law and the Catalan Occupation Strategy, which is the concept of "employability". The concept of "employability" is a star concept of neo-liberal doctrine that places the responsibility for the act and the precariousness in the person, in the sense that..., the logic of analysis is that it has not developed the skills and skills necessary to be an attractive force of work. But not only that – and we have brought it several times to the debate. The fact that you serve the same SOC – here we are now focusing on the Catalonian Occupational Service – is being privatized – and we have also brought it many times to debate – is in this logic. Privatization of labour brokerage or guidance offices means that, for one band, they have market criteria and not right-wing jobs, and that, for another band, we are investing more money and more money in businesses instead of people. Another example would be, for example, the emptying of the contents of the employment guidance offices, which is one of the effects of the previous Legislature SOC Law, which supposes the SOC to think of a subsidising paying sea logic and not of a model of creation of product texture or work as right. He will advise, in view of the data shown by some Catalan countries offended by austerity and broken by the crisis, how do you intend to refocus the policies of occupation? How do you intend to exhaust the jurisdictional limit that we have since the generality? Keeping the SOC as a branch of INEM? – this was one of the analyses that Congresswoman Isabel Vallet made in the past legislature from this same Faristol in the approval of the SOC Law. Keeping the SOC as a payer of subsidies, transferring capital to temporary work enterprises and part of the pre-charitable gear? We believe that labour policies must be courageous and that they cannot be labour policies in the logic of the market, the same market that makes the precariousness of the working conditions of workers and workers in the Catalan countries very much and the same market that makes our lives more and more a matter of survival and not of welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.11.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.12.0	Bon dia, deputies and deputies. Thank you, President. Well, the issue is complicated: capitalism, work and life. And you said it, Mrs. Mirea: she's seen herself from a number of different times and she's come out here a few times the same theme, the concept, and so... I only share a part of what you said, but obviously not everything, and then I won't refer to it. It is true that the capitalist economic system present in the majority of society – and in fact we all go with the iPad and we all go with the mobile, and therefore we are all involved – has led to some determined failures. And these failures are unequal for some classes, for a band; extractive bourgeoisie, oligarchies – what we have said many times. But these inequalities also lead to social exclusion and poverty, from poor pay to poor in all spheres; therefore, they are the results of unequal relations in power. Moreover, the liberalisation of capital saving from large financial centres, with the help of some very conservative governments, has led to capital being seen as the search for easy and rapid gain without taking into account the social and labour rights of workers. If we add to this some reforms that there have been, we know that in some specific places, and especially in the State that at these times we belong, the social contract that there was broke, and the issue of uncertainty about the latest labor reforms became obsolete, so that the stronger powers have managed to advance, while the popular classes and the workers have had more difficulties. The present that we have now, therefore, is a full system of cold and structural fevers, therefore, of arrangements and structural, is not only a conjunctural theme. And I wouldn't mention the Catalan countries or Catalonia or anything else, but it's at the level of all Europe and at the level of all the world. For a long time now, from the social agents – most of the popular classes – it is claimed that the social rights must have that globalization that the capital held, and that in which the rights and the social share are not achieved. Therefore, one of the first things is globalisation in this aspect. From the Government of the Generality – and therefore, we are talking about Catalonia and the work that we are doing both from the Government of the Generality and from the Department – from a good start to the President as well as to my concretely you have heard us say that the best social policy is worthy work. And this word of "worthy we have not neglected it a single time of what we have said, unlike some other governments, who say it but only say that the best social policy is work and good. We have a decent day's work, because of the circumstances we have, it is what we want to work: for a decent day's work. Today we have a bad date, it's the first quarter EPA date. We all know that the EPA is three months, so it's quarterly, and we compare this year's with last year's, where one of the themes is Holy Week. Yesterday we discussed the following questions: the themes of tourism, services, are very important in Catalonia, and, therefore, the population that is working when it is high season varies a lot. It's one of the issues that we need to de-seasonalize, so we talked about it, and that was said by Congressman Oriol Amat, and so was the business advisor. But we have many forts: this makes the year pass, therefore, the first quarter EPA was better than this year. Despite all this, we have been increasing the number of people who have left the place, and this is not even a subject that we want to say to us, but it is forty-three months ago that the place has fallen. But we're about to work and we're about to work on worthy work. Who are the main ideas? First, changes in the production model, from exponential growth in fossil energy consumption to renewable energy consumption. What does that mean? To boost the reindustrialisation of our country. Therefore, we are working in a pact with social agents and with all the companies to be able to make this reindustrialisation pact of the country, because we have also always thought that the work to industry is more stable, it is safer and economically more desirable for workers and workers, apart from giving a product model that is what we want in our country. Another: control and regulation of capital finance. The model of ethical finance, promotes tax systems or attacks tax fraud, as we also saw yesterday in some of the decisions that were taken in this Parliament. And, for the other band, rethink the form of organization and making businesses, from there where we can influence, such as equality plans, to decision making, because internal organization charts of businesses are horizontal and not vertical, as it has been in the last few years. Is that all we can do? You made that very clear. We have very few skills, and these skills we have are only for active policies: we have no skills in regulation, and that is why we want a new republic in which legislation can be its own, because we are very clear that existing laws need to change. We defended, therefore, among the active policies, the creation of occupation. Nor, as the government, can we create employment beyond the themes of public administrations, which I believe this year is not an example of the call for people to enter the public administration. But what we can do is improve the quality of work and, above all, monitor and ensure that what is regulated allows all companies to compete on the same terms; this, for a band. For the other band, work for inequalities to be reduced every time. You know that we are working for a guaranteed income from Catalonia, which many months ago had been brought here to Parliament, many months ago that we are working intensely on it, so soon I hope that I can bear its fruits, and this will allow us to directly attack existing inequalities. But we need more and we have a strong Labour Inspectorate. You were talking to me about what we did with the SOC, with active policies, and how we got there. The SOC is not..., it's the only tool we have to improve these active policies, but we also depend on the State. He knows that most of the money we have to go to the sector conference in Madrid. They're supposed to be good money, and we've claimed that every time. But we are doing a lot of work: not only with the speech of « decent work, but the Government of Catalonia at this time, from the Occupational Service of Catalonia, we dedicate, this 2017, 100_million euros to professional qualification programs that will benefit, we estimate, more than 150,000 people. The assessment we have of these programs that we were going to start the past year is that they give an insertion of 42_per_cent. If most or more of the stops we have in Catalonia are more than forty-five years old, we need this professional qualification because they can change sectors, because they can go to places where there is work now, but they are also expected to be emerging occupations in another way. We don't just work with businesses, we just work directly with people. Another: the Government of Catalonia also dedicates 177_million euros to young people. It's another one of the collections that knows it's harder to find work. In these programs we calculate that, for example, the 74,000 young people who are enrolled in Catalonia in the Youth Guarantee program, who as you well know do not depend solely on the Generality but on other programs..., I can say that, of these, 76_per_cent seek help, seek the Generality's support for the programs. And here we invest 170 million euros. But, in addition, training programs, beyond what we say for professional qualification: we are spending, this 2017, 92_million euros; training programs that we have proven, in 2016, that have had an insertion of 36_per_cent. Support programs for orientation and follow-up of insertion directly to people: 21_million euros. Therefore, as you can see, the Occupational Service of Catalonia does not work with companies, does not directly deal with its responsibility, but works directly with people, especially with mixed monitoring, guidance and support programs. We'll continue with what you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.13.0	I've got the word Mrs Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.14.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. We're insisting, aren't we? : it is not a natural catastrophe; it is to say, neither capitalism is a natural catastrophe nor the current project of the European Union is a natural alien catastrophe to us– it is to say, it has been able to change–, nor the model of social concertation that has existed in the Spanish State and in this country, small but decisive, it is not a natural catastrophe either. The logic of the pact, the logic of the decline, of pulling back into the matter of rights and working conditions is not a catastrophe either. As for policies, let's celebrate all the reflection you have on the product model, on reindustrialization, and even you came to the ethical finances. We fully share that look. What we don't share is the scan that's down and it's already down. We've said this before: it lowers the heat but it doesn't improve the quality, and that's a drama, it's a drama to which to repose. And, yes, the skills are limited, but we don't do enough, we don't do everything we have to do for the photography that the Catalan countries have in the matter of precariousness and poverty. We have Catalan countries, we won't stop repeating it, broken by the crisis. On guaranteed citizen income, you know that we are making hands and hands because you pull forward, but you also know that we are aware that this is a measure of minimums, a measure that does not pale and that does not solve the poor in its wake. About the SOC. We don't need the whole explanation so that all the money comes from the State, because the SOC Law has a logic with a fairly neoliberal recast and... I don't have time and maybe I'll do a simplistic analysis, but working with people doesn't mean working for people. At the police station, in any case, we'll have time to think more about it. What else can we do? On the better conditions of public workers, we have brought to the House of this Parliament various times in terms of wages. For example, we have not seen at any time that when you leave the conditions of the subcontracts there are references to minimum wages, or even at the minimum level of fixed or indefinite contract. That would be an easy thing to do that either. About the ICAM, for example – I already know that it is not its direct competence, but it does have to do with this analysis that we made of the concept of "occupationality". In fact, the trade union section of the CGT of TMB in Barcelona did not explain exferient situations, people who make it work again all and medically not be on condition of working again, and the danger that this supposes both for the workers as for the TMB user; you imagine'salgu' driving a bus and not on condition of doing so. In fact, Councillor Comín acknowledged months ago that the criteria of the ICAM were totally cost-effective. And, I repeat, we know that it is not his competence, but in reality he is directly involved in this logic of employment policies and in this analysis of occupation. And on the job inspection, we can't help but comment on the meeting of the 23rd generation with the minister of Treball, the Lady Fatima Báñez, at the signing of the Commission of Inter-Administrative Cooperation of Inspection of Treball and Social Security; minister who commits herself to the rod of the Rocío to put aside the crisis, and it doesn't seem to us to be the best political model as to do this. Still, and jokes aside, in the job inspection we can also do many more things. In fact, we need more resources for the job inspection, and that is also something we have said a lot of times, and we need that the job inspection is dedicated exclusively to removing the level of fraud from the law's failure to comply with labour regulations and labour contracts, and also from the left-wing nature of work. I know you're going to tell me that you're already doing it, and it's going to take all the data from all the..., the number of inspections you've done, because we've talked about it a lot, but there's not enough: there's not enough because the left-handedness is so high, because the time contract is so high. And to finish, and at the gates of the U of Maig, and back to the beginning: this is not a natural catastrophe, we cannot fail to summon the mobilizations of the U of Maig, nor can we fail to quote one of the best poets who has ever had this country, that is Joan Brossa. And we want to end up like this: "People don't have the power they have: / with a general wave of a week/ there shouldn't be enough to surprise the economy, / paralyze the State and prove that / laws they impose are not necessary. We think that a general wave is one of the essential mobilizations that we need at the gates of the republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.15.0	Thank you, Mrs Vehi. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.16.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. I never said that we worked with people, I always said that we worked with people and for people, because, if not, these SOC programs would not be designed the way we are designing them, which is the only competence we have. I didn't say the money came from the sector either. He knows that there is money from European funds, there is money from the sector, but there is no more than half the generality's property. Therefore, the last two years we have posed..., the year 2016 and this year 2017, the half of the money that the Occupational Service of Catalonia has are close to the Generality. I've explained what we did to the SOC, because one of the times... or some MP said that when we get out of the press every month talking about the weather just the day the situation is going on. So, I also wanted to explain what we're doing, because as the situation of the day is, I don't think you'll find any comment on what we're saying that we're happy to get down to the day and good. It's true that it lowers the atm, but in all – and if not, they can prove it – the press releases, all the press wheels, both personal, as the counselor, as of anyone in the Treball Department, say: "Down the atm, but let's keep talking about the precarious work. So, we want to work because there's a decent job, and that's not precarious. Third theme: contractation theme. Look, I can explain what's in the department. For example, a very simple thing, concerted places in the matter of the residences of great people: they will all be in those places where there is public finance, not one for private and good, because we believe that so much this part of what is social contracting in the department must be paramount, and therefore we also go this way. Inspection of Treball: increase it effectively. That's what we've done: divide more people from this generation month of 2017. We can't hire inspectors directly because it's a topic we don't have competitions. Therefore, one of the agreements that existed at the time of the inspection is that the staff is defined to the State, and we cannot contract them directly because they have to be staff of oppositions of the State. So that we can't do this, so we've got people who are qualified on social security issues who were at another institute doing some work, because we think it's important that they stay and can go to the work center. You said to me: "No gifts. So, there's only one I want to donate: 36,028 visits to work centers this year 2016 of work inspectors. I think it's an important data. And of these, the 15_per_cent girls at night and party times; so, that there is no agreement when it goes to the company or absolutely no theme to not see it clear when there is a job inspection to find... What have we been working on? In the management of human resources, too; human resources of enterprises, which let us not fail to mention that enterprise means entrepreneurs and workers. Fears of subcontracting in the telephone sector – and you know it very well –: there were never any sanctions..., there was not enough sanctions, but there was never any sanctions in life that happened this past year 2016, and we will continue 2017, because they don't do us for either the big companies or the big oligarchies. Associated labor co-operatives, and you have not formed a part when we have had to change, to say the least, a part of the Cooperative Law in order to be able to have more momentum, because we detected errors, and false autonomies and false workers, than since the Labour Inspectorate, alone, could not work there because the law did not allow it. So we've detected this and we've put ourselves in. Work with multi-serve companies. We are working from the inn and with the pee chambers: illegal cessation of workers. Thanks to this eight thousand workers who were without contract this 2016 have indefinite and full-time contract, which is not partial, and six thousand who were irregular have become regular. So we could do more, I agree, but we're doing a lot of work. Beyond here, there's a topic we're worried about that you haven't talked about, and it's the issue of irregularities. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] We are working in three areas: we are working in the domestic service and caring for people at home, with people who have living conditions and working conditions very much under the sector and should therefore have an agreement with them. We have a working group of legal aspects at the Ciutadania Table also with all these irregular people. We are working with Pakistani trades, because they also had a series of problems with the Labour Inspectorate. And I think a very important subject...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.17.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.18.0	...is how we can regulate the work of irregular people. Guaranteed income...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.19.0	You've run out of time, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.20.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[He asked the government about the misuse of public money]] [[300-00158/11]] The next item is the question to the Government about the misuse of public money presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, Mr. Carles Carrizosa has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.22.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, Councillor, Members of Parliament, it is clear that governance is not easy and less in times of crisis. Citizens is a sensible party, which does not make promises impossible to fulfill and all the proposals we make are made with an Excel in hand. Where we are decisive we have shown that we are a responsible party, that we bring stability and that we allow budgets to go ahead with improvements for all citizens. One thing is that there is no money for everything we would like, and another, very different, is the misuse of that money. The money available to the Government is a money of all, and one must be very scrupulous when using public money. Counselor, you know that Catalonia is the autonomous community with the highest and best paid positions. President Puigdemont charges more than twice as much as the President of Spain, and his advisers charge more than ministers. And then there are other charges in other bars that charge as much as the councillors, and, moreover, these high charges have increased since the government is Mr Puigdemont's. And this is a waste that we have reproached on many occasions, but it is that other misuses of public money have also been detected during his government work, which is what we want to talk about today. Look, one of the obsessions of this government – [[the timer riu]] And you know it very well, Counsellor Romeva – it is the internationalization of the process, and for this they spend more and more money. The fact of reaping one failure after another does not make you give up on continuing to use the money of all Catalans, which everyone earns with effort and pays as taxes to translate them into social improvements; you don't mind dedicating what is at your end, which is the internationalization of the process. To put close examples: the meeting given in Brussels by Mr Puigdemont, Mr Junqueras and yourself, Councillor Romeva, cost us, only in advertising, EUR 127,000. And it was for a rally where, like all the rallies, who's going? Well, they're convinced, aren't they? In Brussels it was Catalan public that you managed to gather so that you would hear them, listen to them, when you could have heard them here in Barceloneta, but you spent EUR 127,000 on advertising it. And then President Puigdemont went on a trip to the United States, twice, huh? In a couple of weeks, in case it wasn't enough one. And on the first occasion it did not go beyond giving a lecture in a small room of a university; it met with congressmen of the Tea Party, you also meet, on your travels with people, deputies, of extreme right. And in the second, on the second trip he managed to get both the embassy of that country and the Carter Foundation to finish issuing communiqués to demarcate themselves from their attempt to repeat a new November 9th. Some, in Citizens, we are – knows that we have influence, today, in Congress and in the People's Party government – thinking of proposing to the Rajoy government to hire you, you and Mr Puigdemont, because you are the ones who get the most support, the most international communications in support of the unity of Spain. So let's see if they hire you, because you're doing a very good job of getting all the actors on the international scene out of the picture. But we don't just have to pay for the travel of the current President of the Generalitat, now that we are also paying for the travel of the former President who managed to send the CUP to the trash of history, former President Mas. That, by the way, now the CUP has also said that they do not want Mr Mas to be an ambassador of the process, which makes us think, then, if Mr Mas does not even represent all the separatists, how will he represent all the Catalans? We are actually paying..., to a gentleman who has no attribution, no legal attribution, we are paying the travel is not well known as to what. Mr. Mas, so to speak, is a spontaneous who has jumped to the wheel of international travel and you are taking the little trips to Mr. Mas, and it is not well known... That is to misuse public money, Mr. Romeva; that is to use with people who do not have the legal powers to represent all Catalans – nor all separatists, either. Another of the fields in which his government spends money in a row and without control is in the computer bubble: 400_million for the CTTI, which is as much as the entire budget of the Department of Culture of the Generalitat. Undoubtedly the technologies are very necessary, but the problem is the misuse they make after these technologies with all that public money: they have been used to spy on the teachers' emails, the computer technologies of the Generalitat have been used to spy on officials, to spy on and "jaquear communications of the unions of the Mossos d'Esquadra to create ghost databases of those who are poaching around some of those who, when they do not threaten officials..., there are others who reveal plans to make illegal databases and boast about it. And then they also use them, these computer media, because, for example, to make campaigns of the councillor who was here a moment ago, they do party campaigns: a campaign with the anagram of Republican Left from the web, from the personal account of the councillor: from the official account of the councillor it is done, incredibly, party propaganda. Another area where there seems to be money is always for the government's car bomb. Every two by three we find campaigns that do not provide any information, but your government has 30_million_of_euro dedicated to institutional advertising. And, for example, you do every campaign that, well, is inaccurate or is incredible. We ask you about the campaign you made of "The strength of a great country: "The Prat airport has brought 50 percent of the benefits obtained from airports all over the state. Source: AENA, 2014. Well, if it's someone's merit, it'll be AENA's merit, won't it? Because you, the Generalitat, don't put a hard on Prat airport. They do put it at Reus airport, which is one of the most deficient in the state and those that go less planes and traffic less planes. We asked them what this campaign of "The strength of a country was worth and they told us: "One million euros. A million euros have been spent on the campaign «The strength of a country, which communicated nothing to Catalans but the car bomb of its own party. And another camper: "The government avoids more than 3,200 evictions in three months. This looks like news, it's disguised, it looks like an article in a newspaper, but it wasn't: it was an advertising wedge in which you give yourself to the bus that you avoid 3,200 evictions in nine months when Catalonia is actually one of the communities in which we unfortunately have the most evictions in the housing. And you pay this, and it's also absolutely useless institutional publicity because, to people in need of the assistance of the Generalitat, to access a home, to prevent it from being evicted, not a phone, nothing. Useful Information? None: car bomb absolutely. In infrastructure: « The Generalitat calls for the transfer of Rodalies, and gives an incidence figure of 1,597 in the infrastructure network of Rodalies. Citizens ask for explanations and you yourself... when you answer us, it turns out that eight hundred were due to that part of the infrastructure that the government manages, and another was the trains that the Generalitat manages, more than four hundred incidents, but these you « take away, so to speak, the state in your advertising of the bus in which you spend the money. And then, not to end..., is that there are multiple, multiple examples of this money that is dedicated... Well, for example, you want to dedicate to a new November 9... Mr. Junqueras said in an interview that he had everything prepared to process the referendum, but it is that the Constitutional Court has told you that you cannot spend the money. And there is a 5,8_millions game that is legitimate if it is spent on normal elections, as you will have to do right away, but not in cardboard ballot boxes to repeat a November 9 for all Catalans. In the second round I will explain to you the solutions proposed by Citizens. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.23.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Reply by Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.24.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Carrizosa, ladies and gentlemen of the House... from the outset, allow me to thank you, first, the opportunity another time to be able to make a debate, to be able to speak. Because, effectively, I believe that in politics, and above all in parliamentary politics, talking, dialogue, discussing, contrasting, asking, even questioning is absolutely legitimate, it is absolutely normal, and it seems to me that it is the way to do things. What's incomprehensible, anyway, is to stop debates; that's weird, huh? , as a minimum, in parliamentary politics. And, therefore, I thank you for using this democratic right that we should all be able to express ourselves freely on any subject that we consider relevant. You didn't get a today that's absolutely relevant, that's the right one – in any case, a use that should be made; you're entitled "bad use of public money, in any case we could hold it in place – that should be made of public resources. And, indeed, we agree that the first premise that can be faced in order to make good use of public money is to know, of course, how these public resources, these assumptions, and, therefore, also what mechanisms we have, not only for discussion, elaboration and approval, but also, afterward, for control, for supervision. And in this sense we are clear about the things that we have at these times. There has been a parliamentary debate, proposals have been made, proposals have been made – some have passed, others have not –, priorities have been established, and, finally, after these debates this Parliament has approved some assumptions, which some of you like the most, others less; for some it is enough, for others it is less, but it marks the priorities that arise from parliamentary debates that you have had, in which you also, logically, and legitimately, have had, because they are at these moments of opposition, a meaningful participation. We are talking about €31,000_million, 74_percent of which is for social expenditure. Therefore, overall, if we look at the figures globally, in their globality, it is clear that the priorities of this premise are clear, the priorities are obvious. We could focus on the priorities that you may not share because they are wrong, or they are insufficient, which is absolutely legitimate, I repeat, and it is what you are looking to do, in the areas that it touches: parliamentary debate ahead and, in any case, then parliamentary control over the implementation of this assumption. But, I repeat, the priorities of this premise are clear. From here, you know – and it seems to me that it is good and we are reiterating that this is the tool to be used – that a presumption is under internal control, therefore, to an intervention, therefore, to a general intervention, that at these times it is especially strict every time that the supposition parties approve or that they make proposals from the supposition parties. There is an external control: the Union of Accounts, which obviously also has to do its work in an absolutely impartial, rigorous and strict way at the time of controlling the use of these resources, and, obviously also, political control. No problem that in this political debate you disagree. Now, when it's raised from a point of view of resource utilization, an accusation must be able to work well. One thing is the political discrepancy, which is legitimate; the other thing is the supposed illegality or fraud or, in any case, bad practice, which here would obviously heat up, obviously, discuss, or actually plant, the reasons, which I understand are the important ones. And here's where I went, directly, to the background problem, which is what you've been thinking, or some of the background problems that you've been thinking about. And if I may, I'll start at the end. He started talking – in any case, in order not to let me 'ncap try to explain them all –..., you have criticized in a very harsh way, in short, the foreign policy of this government. Let me remind you: the external action, not of this government, of any government today, is absolutely normal, necessary, legitimate and more is a legal obligation that we have. I will repeat it as many times as you need: Catalonia must be able to have external projection in all areas – economic, business, sport, cultural, research – and, therefore, this is the work of external action. That's what we do, that's what we do, that's what delegations do, that's what different advisors and advisors do when they come out. From this external normality we do so close and which, moreover, has a positive impact on the welfare here and we hope that in some cases also outside, through other joint programs that we make with certain actors. We'll keep doing that, even though I don't like it. That in this external work is explained what the situation of Catalonia is, because legitimately and necessarily there are questions, it is obvious, it is normal. It's the paper that touches it, it's the paper that it also does..., or isn't that what makes the Spanish State also, when it's still out of the way, saying that what we're doing here is illegal? Or isn't that what the hundreds of Spanish state embassies do and the eighty-eight and eight-five are comforting when they explain that what we're doing here is illegal? And they deny the right to all these citizens of Catalonia who have legitimately demanded, have expressed their desire to be able to decide democratically and peacefully their future, to vote, and deny them this right, and to attack and condemn them to ostracism, if it may be? Isn't that what he does? Because there are a few majorities in the state, that you support, that you make this speech. That's not representing all the citizens of the Spanish State, right? – from the beginning – don't be fooled, eh? Don't fool us. But, in change, that's what they do. What we do is explain. You need the contacts you have on the outside. Allow me to be very frank: if you are so clear that this is not what the people of Catalonia want, if you are so clear that outside you do not care, if you are so clear that no one listens to us, and that no one will listen to us and that no one will listen to us, listen, it is the opportunity to put the ballots, to vote, that everyone expresses themselves. And if they really make it so clear that this is not going to happen, let us vote and stop worrying about this issue. Because, if it turns out not, as you so clearly have to go out, listen, the debate is over, the problem is over, we won't have a problem in this sense anymore. That's what I invite you to do, too. Now, you see very well in this counter-replication, because obviously the woman felt to exist: go against a proposal, do not make it – go against a proposal. But I repeat: we don't have a problem talking about this and everything. And from this point of view, if you're so clear that this isn't going away, let's put it to the vote. But more than that, going directly to the premise, is that you criticize a game that is 0.2_per_cent of the total premise. That is to say, the 0.2_per_cent that you criticize with this profusion, compared to the conjunction of the assumption of the Government of Catalonia, is a nimity, is that it is ridiculous from the point of view of the needy, even so, I would say. That's what's there. But it is that we are talking, I repeat, of a presumption, in its conjunction of the Department of Foreign Affairs, of 62_million, that if we explain directly what you have to see with external action, it is half, therefore, of 0.1_percent of all the presumption. To you this seems too much, seems too much, seems even denied. But it turns out that if you look at the figures well, 80_per_cent, 75-80_per_cent of the people of Catalonia understand that we have a problem, they understand that the solution is democratic and they understand that the solution goes by to vote, to resolve it democratically. This is the majority demand. Therefore, this Government, from the presuppositional point of view to the needy, I repeat, social and out of the crisis, that at these moments have arisen and that obviously I will not be there because it is not the issue, that is the priority. But they also come up with a majority demand to resolve the issue that we are concerned about at these times. And I repeat: if you are worried that this does not go away, then you have no better solution than to allow us all to express ourselves; to all of you: to you, to whom we will say yes and to whom you still do not know what they will say because you do not know how to face the question yet, legitimately. But allow me to make it, too, a specific point about which you have to see with the infrastructures, two very quick reflections. The first, from the point of view of control we have made a thorough reform of what are the public procurement systems, for a very clear and very explicit reason: why what we want to avoid – and in fact with the reform that we have made, of the Public Procurement Decree, we will avoid it – are Castors, we are examples of infrastructures that are not only wrongly decided and wrongly attributed, but mismanaged, and still more poorly solved. This is an important aspect. And, second, man, we're also honest: you criticize infrastructure. Listen, we spend the day listening to promises of investments, of rain of millions that in the best of cases do not cease to be a sirimiri and still thanks. So, at a time when we're talking about public resources, we're also a little bit honest. Those to whom you have given them in a way that is almost free of charge to the Congress of Deputies and the Government, which, once and for all, come to promise, to promise, to promise... You talk a lot about promises, a lot of praise, but it turns out that here they don't promise, promise, promise, and, listen, here we are still waiting for some of the promises that have been made so many times, not one, not two, not three times, but a lot more. So, man, when it comes to the use of public resources and the credibility and legitimacy of what it is, I think it should also be a little more stringent. From this point of view, I repeat: the parliamentary debate I think is always welcome. We discuss so much with...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.25.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.26.0	...you're missing the priorities...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.27.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.28.0	... and, in any case, I thank him, obviously, that he makes all the proposals: I will listen very carefully to them to improve these practices. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. You have the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.30.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor Romeva, when you talk about preventing debates, what are you referring to? : to the reform of the Regulation proposing the processing of laws in one reading? That? [[applause]] – That? Or are you referring to when you are submitting amendments to the whole of the laws proposed by Citizens to try to get Catalan children to have textbooks free of charge, or to end school harassment, and you are trying to ensure that these issues are not even discussed in the Catalonian Parliament and are submitting amendments to the whole of them? Maybe they're talking about that. And as for external action, we love that there is external action – we love it. It is that external action is one thing, that it is within the statutory competences that gives us the Statute of Catalonia, and that it is, no more or less, to promote the Catalan economy abroad and also to promote Catalan culture abroad and to make it known. But it is not – it is not – to advertise a referendum attempt, of which you, by the way, on November 9, 2015, because, little less than that you mocked when you proposed Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and said that that was already past screen, and now you are defending it again. But, well, beyond these contradictions, I came here to talk about the misuse of public money, which is typical, by the way, of the old policy, of a policy which consists in the parties believing that public money is theirs, which serves to perpetuate itself in power, when not to enrich itself in particular. It is not a private issue of the government or the governments of Convergence i Unió, it has also been done by the People's Party, as we know, in the Government of Spain and in the Community of Madrid; the PSOE has practiced it profusely in Andalusia, we can also find a lot of auto-bomb campaigns there too, and you have done it here. And what I believe is that you do not understand what is happening in Europe and Spain, and you do not see what has happened in France. The truth is that populism and nationalism flourish, and that flourishes through discontent, because people in crisis, citizens, are seeing that the money they put into the common box is not being used well. And because if the old parties don't give solutions and the old parties don't do anything to change the system, others come and offer magical solutions, and the Syriza come, and the Le Pen come, and the Trump come and the Brexit come. And they come, therefore, parties like Convergence, which being of the old politics believe that there is a niche in populism and nationalism, and they manufacture an external enemy and fix the solution of all evils in a Brexit for Catalonia. But do you know what's going on? That Convergence is not believed by anyone, and that is why they do not stop going down in the polls and no longer paint anything in Congress. And why can't anyone believe it? Well, because you are the old policy, the party of corruption and of the embargoed seats. And because people know that, in the face of these problems of misuse of public money, you are not going to give solutions, because you live on that and have all the vices of old politics in Spain, which is now aggravated by the populism of your proposals, by the unrealizable of your obsessions, by the lies they say and by the partners with which they go. To govern is to prioritize, and, look, the main feature of a democratic system is the control of money paid by citizens, so we ask you to account for the use of the government, of a government embarked on a political crusade. Do you have to decide: do I pay officials their extra wages or do I put high charges with high pay? Do I spend my money on hospital beds or do I get plugged into the seats? Do I reduce waiting lists or keep regional councils? Do I reduce the number of barracks in schools or do I keep Spain's most public TV? Do I pay what I owe in dependence? Do I do free zero - education at three years or do I fund money on small trips abroad? Do I help self - helpers and entrepreneurs or do I spend it on building state structures and building cardboard ballot boxes? We have it clear and it seems that you do not have it so much. And as we see that they are not clear, we will propose a motion with measures of control by this Parliament to regulate, by the Government, the conditions under which government travel abroad can take place: the entourage to be carried out; the duration; the objectives to be covered; the limit of the representation that each member of the Government has; that members of the Government go and not spontaneous like Mr Artur Mas; that they become real work trips and not mere promotional whims; that periodic reports be made; that you report here once a month on the objective, the content and the expenses that have entailed all these trips; that 100 per cent of the money provided for social consignments be spent and that 20 per cent of the money left to pay aid for energy poverty. And we will push for measures such as preventing the Union of Accounts from carrying out an audit of the foreign travel carried out in this legislature. We will propose more reforms in depth, but with the resistance of the old policy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.31.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.32.0	...will be with a change of government when we can do and carry out these reforms in depth. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.33.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. There's the word the Romeva Councilman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.34.0	Well, thank you very much, Mr. Carrizosa. The truth is that, man, I understand that when you talk about coherence and credibility, you have to refer, for example, to the pact that you made in 2009 for the Europeans with Libertas, with a clearly anti-European party, and therefore also from this clearly nationalist point of view, which did not bother them at that time to make a pact, and more with resources than they came from a multimillionaire, which, as you know perfectly well, man, precisely was not an example of progressism. Therefore, his main problem at the time of making these speeches is the hemerotheque and his own history. What's going on is that from this perspective, I can understand that you feel uncomfortable with a certain political approach, and that's legitimate. What is more difficult to believe is that you, at the time of making this speech, are also coherent and understandable. Because from the point of view, I repeat, of what the European reading that you have mentioned means, man, let's say that they have some unknowns and some shadows that it would be good for you to clarify, since they are so close to transparency. Speaking of transparency, I must say, with all the legitimacy and tranquillity of the world: you know perfectly well that every time you ask yourself questions, you answer yourself. Hardly will find – hardly will find – a government..., certainly, not what you give support to the State, this sure not, but here all the answers have been given. And I don't have a problem. You say you'll make proposals because there's an audit of the trips. No problem, do it. But if they have all the information, but if we've given them everything, if they have everything, if they know everything, if you don't have anything – there's nothing. So, if there's nothing, what's the problem? Therefore, they have absolutely all the information. And from this point of view, you used to criticize – and I didn't think so, but it seems to me that it's important – the whole technological side. Home, I would appreciate it if you also put in value, precisely, all the work that is done – not on the part of this department, but on the part of the whole government – at the time of making an absolutely exemplary open data policy on a European scale: to the assumptions themselves, but to any other department, the same. That's why technology is also needed, that's why it's needed precisely also this opportunity to have public information, because from the point of view, I repeat, the control and supervision of spending, there's no discussion here. I repeat that, from the point of view, therefore, of transparency and use, all proposals will be well repudiated, welcome, studied, taken into account, but I doubt very much that they can bring us something that we are not doing. But, also, I repeat: if this is the case, we will appreciate it and take advantage of it as much as you need. Now, let's have it in this sense, too, a little clear and a little blunt. You're talking about credibility and strength. It seems to me that it is important to remember that, at a given moment, Mr. Rivera, the president of his party, said that if there was a sun more imputed to the People's Party, they would stop supporting it. From what he said, 179 have appeared. I believe that questioning, too, from the point of view of legitimacy, that certain alliances are questionable, man, I believe that, oysters, with the least – with the least – it would be good if we had a certain self-criticism at the time of, also, making certain statements. That said, I repeat: one hundred_per_cent agree that we can discuss the most radical, narrower, more forceful measures to avoid any kind of bad practice. If here we are absolutely – absolutely – okay, no problem, no problem. I repeat that, yes, it is a matter of coherence. And the last thought I wanted to make of you: you need parliamentary debate and remove the problem of the Rules, for example, yesterday. Look, I'll tell you again, and the president of the Junts Group perfectly explained it for the Yes, Mr. Turull, that if we could do this in a normal, open, public way, that it's what we all wanted, that it's what we asked, that it's what we think is normal in democratic societies, we wouldn't be talking about right now. I mean, if you didn't send the Constitutional Court a debate – a debate – we wouldn't be talking about that right now. And when you lack the fact that the President But is explaining what is the situation that at these times is living, man, I would like you to remember that the President But is at these times condemned for asking people and asking for people's opinion, which is absolutely extraordinary on an international level. So, that you're missing this, and at the same time, you think that this is a bad presuppositional practice, frankly, I repeat, it's not just a matter of substance, but also of political coherence. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.35.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Romeva. [[Question to the Government on the public offer of employment and the conditions of employment of the staff of the Administration of the Government of Catalonia]] [[300-00159/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the public offer of employment and the working conditions of the staff of the Administration of the Government of Catalonia, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word María José García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.36.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, welcome the union representatives who accompany us, also from the council. Consellera, ladies and gentlemen, we begin this inquiry as always: recognizing the merit of the public employees of the Generalitat, who have suffered with stoicity unprecedented and uncomparable cuts and labour tensions in the rest of the civil servants and other public workers in Catalonia or in the rest of Spain in general; cuts and labour stress due to the temporaryity and insufficient coverage of places, the over-effort of maintaining the quality and the provision of a public service that is essential, with more users and with fewer employees. By responsibility, and under the worst conditions in all of Spain, our public employees have maintained essential services, such as education, health, justice and security. And we want to thank you, and that's why we're here today. The Generalitat de Catalunya has been the public administration that has cut the most, that has strained the most, and it is the administration that is now less, much less, and more slowly, reversing cuts and tensions. You, Counselor, at the time of cutting, pointed out the first and voracity, going far beyond the state decrees that you used as an alibi, beyond your own legitimacy. And that is why the courts have ruled against him: for example, the 5_per_cent reduction in the salary of the Government Agreement 33/15, of March 10, which was declared null and void, qualifying his performance as disguised disobedience, strategism, arrogance, fraud of law and even with doubts about his good faith; or the final ruling of the Supreme who annulled the retroactive cut in law, if we refer to the extra payment deserved until July 2012. For all this, your commitment now is not only legal, it is also moral. You say – we listened to it last plenary session – that you are committed and working for public workers to regain their right. Look, we doubt it, because what they've done has only been due to external pressure: judicial pressure, trade union pressure, parliamentary pressure or state pressure. Its management is absolutely disappointing: without initiatives, without political will, without transparency, without loyalty. I say this with respect, but also with constancy. Your Government has boycotted, and you know it, the negotiation at the general table, with a delaying and opaque strategy, coming without proposals, with no negotiating will, with no political capacity, leaking information to the press, and to show the table last April 10: absolutely contradictory to the expectations that you generated in your responses to Members Vidal and García last plenary. From the experience of this past year and a half, we believe that you are already doing away with your duties, and also mistreating and disrespecting public workers, who are not to blame for the inability of your Government to manage finances or for the dreams that this Government of Esquerra, of Convergence, is prioritizing, now PDECAT. And it is their own inability to manage and their lack of political courage that has us here today. Because we have examples of other governments that, with the same crisis, with the same unjust financing model – by the way, agreed by Artur Mas with Zapatero – have not cut their officials what you, and you have already reversed all these cuts. Repeatedly for you it is all the fault of the Government of Spain. It is easy: it is an external enemy, demonized and cannot be defended. I would ask you today to stick to your role as Generalitat's adviser and not to ask us as a deputy in the opposition in Congress would: answer us. Let us talk about what is happening here and its responsibility, although it is true that today we must consider a series of partly binding evidences that condition the debate and that I do not think you censor, even if they come from Madrid. The first is the agreement signed by the Government of Spain with the trade unions Commissions, UGT i CSIF on 29 March; historical agreement, positive, very satisfactory for all parties, agreeing to include in the general budgets of the State a replacement rate of 100 for good in priority sectors, including new sectors as priorities and 5_per_cent in the rest of the sectors. And it is also agreed to reduce in three years the rate of temporality to 8_per_cent, which means, counsel, stabilizing to 90_per_cent of the current interim and temporary, and ensuring that the places that take at least three years are fulfilled – fixed, literally, eh? – « occupied by staff with temporary links. It does not mean that the same worker takes three years in a temporary place, but that the structural or short-term place takes three years or more occupied by one or more interims. And this is essential when calculating the number of places that should be consolidated in three years. It's not worth cheating. The second: the adoption, on 31 March, in the Council of Ministers, of the Law on General State Budgets, incorporating the stabilization of public staff in the signed terms, two days before, with trade unions and with a 1_per_cent increase in remuneration. The third is Royal Decree No. 6/17 of 31 March, which approved on a binding basis a public job offer for teachers, armed forces and security forces, also in the terms signed with trade unions. Objective: to safeguard the stabilization of these services, whether or not the budgets referred to the Courts are approved. And this decree is justified by the indefatigable need to cover places for the 17-18 course in the case of teachers, and in the case of Mossos by the need for sufficient staff passing a necessary period of training to attend to public security with guarantees. In short, the decree – literally – is approved because of the extraordinary and urgent need for these incorporations to take place through the immediate convening of oppositions. The Spanish Government therefore not only allows you to stabilise staff with the approval of the trade unions, it also obliges you immediately, extraordinarily urgent and also binding, in education, universities and autonomous police, an obligation which will also be binding on the other public services managed by the Generalitat if the general budgets of the State are approved. This, Counselor, has been a very good news for the public service, however, it seems that you have caught up with the changed step: when you had already announced to bowl and dish seven_ thousand places for this year, you find that this announcement is ridiculous, for insufficient, in the face of the commitment of the State, the state trade union agreement and the needs of Catalonia itself. Because, look, the Generalitat has almost two hundred_ thousand public employees, 190,303 with the official figures of the ministry, with their data – only surpasses us Andalusia – and, according to this official information, we have 42,300 interims – in this also only surpasses us Andalusia. The precariousness, with these data, is 22,2_per_cent; we are in the Spanish average. You will say: "It is not bad, but it is that with this data we would have to stabilize, in order to comply with these agreements, in three years 38,000 interims – with that data –, much more than other communities, in addition to covering retirement or transfer breaks with a 100_per_cent replacement rate, which leads us to a need to convene in three years oppositions to cover between 45,000 and 50,000 places, because the real precariousness rate also seems to be higher than what you say, reaching 25 to 30_per_cent, if we also consider temporary places. And although on April 18 you stretched out and approved by government agreement an offer higher than the initial announcement of 7,721 places for 2017, it is evident that leaving some forty-one thousand places, 84_per_cent of what needs to be covered, for the other two years, 18 and 19, is neither serious, nor rigorous nor responsible. And it is clear, she advises, that the announcement of the Government of Spain has caught them by surprise, and that they have not had the capacity to react to put on the table last April 10th a serious proposal and consistent with the needs of Catalonia outside the State. He advises, we need a government that governs, plans, anticipates, takes advantage of its capacity and its competences, and that is commensurate with the circumstances and our needs. We need a three-year plan to stabilize needs, to stabilize staffing, we need a serious plan, a timetable to recover rights cut short these years, we need a different attitude from this government, a loyal, serious, rigorous, fulfilling attitude. We do not need, we do not want a party government, biased, politicized, exclusive and obsessed with its project of rupture and confrontation, and we do not hesitate, in order to achieve it, to skip the essence of any rule of law: the subjection of power to the law. A government that as soon as threatens officials as it wants to reassure them by sending Sant Jordi letters selling them that an illegal referendum or a DUI is a democratic, serious and responsible thing. And what do I declare? A law to disconnect from democratic legality is more than certain that it will be annulled by the Constitutional Court, and a law annulled by the Constitutional Court is not in force and cannot be enforced. Threatening and deceiving officials with partisan and false messages is a fraudulent use of institutions and an abuse of power that we are not going to allow. Counselor, I would appreciate it if you could explain to us: how do you intend to apply the royal decree state law? If you are going to implement the trade union agreement signed in Madrid, how many retirements are planned these years? , how many structural and short-term places are occupied by temporary staff? Will we have an explicit calendared plan until 2019 to recover templates and decrease interinity to 8_per_cent? What concrete proposals for the recovery of rights and what timetable will lead to the next general table and when will it be convened? Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.37.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.38.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs García Cuevas, ladies and gentlemen, in the first place, even though your inquiry may seem unresponsive, I must thank you for doing it to me, because it allows me to explain. And, besides, to clarify a lot of things in which you think that you are telling the truth, with which you have not just said the truth, or, well, directly, in some areas strictly false the truth, right? So, listen to me, I think we have a context at these more positive times than we didn't, and this is a reality. I missed it: I want to greet the representatives of the department as well as the unions here present. And, therefore, in this sense, let us begin what is strictly the answer. You've been asking me a whole series of questions in which, therefore, you ask us, listen to me, that the government governments, as it has been established, that the temporality is diminished. He asks us..., he tells us to take the opposite; that we do not act; that we pull forward, therefore, initiative; that we give answer to what the decree that has been approved for the government. But I have to tell you, precisely, that what we do from the Government of Catalonia is go a lot more there, go a lot more back than the Spanish Government at this point has come up with its decree. And I'll explain. Miri, it is clear to us that, as a result of the difficult financial situation of this country..., and not because this country does not have resources, but, listen'm, that this is a reality: it is a situation, therefore, a situation in difficulty on the part of the Spanish Government, that one time after the other has us in a situation of difficulty. And, therefore, the elements that we have to do to reduce what was the expenditure, the public expenditure – you know it perfectly well–..., this has been, we could say, driven by the People's Party of its Spanish government. So, man, a member of the People's Party is coming here to take action when you're the cause of everything, as at least it's more than an ironic point, we could say. Listen to me, the Government of Catalonia announced it long before what their proposals were: therefore, that we would make an offer of public occupation of around seven thousand places; finally, certainly, it has been superior, of 7,721 places, and it has been superior depending on what is the possibility of..., once closed the two years, 2015 and 2016, and, therefore, we could see what was the repositioning that we could do. Therefore, listen to me, we, therefore, more than 2,500 places that we already have, at these times, for all that are the health professionals; 2,000 in teachers and 380 specialist technicians of children's education; in safety and emergency personnel, we are talking about 505 moves, 150 bombers; staff in the field of social services, 551 work places; staff in the field of prison, 301 social educators; staff in the Rural Agents Centre, 100 places. And I also want to highlight, therefore, what professional places are in other subjects, such as engineering, lawyer's body, archivist or librarian, in which, therefore, there was no call for this, or not to talk about the offer of general administration bodies. So, listen to me, the one we've put on the table at the moment, today, has gone a lot further than your decree. With his decree we could not, therefore, make the offer of public occupation in the areas that you cited, of education and also of security, and, therefore, I mean of Mossos; we could not make it in the quantity that we put it on the table. And I think this is worth saying to us: we see as positive measures those that the Spanish Government has put forward, in fact, about the Public Service Secretariat, but it is clear that, in the measure that the President has already announced, depending on whether we have assumptions or not, it was much more than the decree that you explained to us now, right? Therefore, in this sense our initiative is not that I am out of the game, on the contrary, it is to advance, therefore, a good news in which I mean that there will be the incorporation of new staff into the public service; that there will be interims..., that there will be people who will be able, therefore, to choose, for the logical lives that must be, to be able to be functioning of the Generality of Catalonia, and, therefore, in this sense there will be positive elements. Therefore, I mean, summarizing, better in the service; I mean incorporation of new talent, and, therefore, people outside the Administration who would join it; I mean consolidation, too, of places occupied now by interns, and also reduction of temporality. Therefore, good news, I insist, goes much further than your decree. You ask me to value you and if we think, therefore, to push forward what is the agreement of ‘public employment to which the great unions at the level of the State with the government have arrived. You must have heard me – and if not, then I say it now, here in the Catalan chamber – that we have stated that this agreement will be transferred to Catalonia; that we have not spoken to the unions at the last negotiating table, in which we are going to say that we are going to take the offer of public employment; that we have not given up this agreement... to develop it; that logically, in order to develop this agreement, we will have to translate it, logically, into law, and that from here we, with them, will be doing the study of which are these places of interest that you mentioned, of three years old. All this... we haven't done a few studies yet, but logically we have to be worked on, I insist, with the same unions, and so, in this sense, we have committed ourselves, haven't we? Therefore, listen to me, the government's commitment to public workers went far beyond what is this offer of public occupation that we have put on the table, and, therefore, goes far beyond that in many other subjects. You know perfectly well that there has been a return of rights that have been diminished, or some of them disappeared, such as the return of vacation days or personal days – this is a theme, that are rights, that we have been able to return –; how was the payment from the year 2015 of the extraordinary pay; how was the return of the 2012 pay; as was the compromise..., and this is how it was set up on the table with the union members, who have made two _months of work and negotiation so as to advance in the rest of the pending rights to be returned. And so, in this sense, there is a negotiation in which we are moving forward, certainly not at the pace we all want, but it is obvious that in this sense the negotiation is, is working and, therefore, we will continue to move forward. This legislature, to quote concrete and real figures, has met again and again, and has sunk, as I said, so concrete agreements that have brought us forward in this matter. But it is also true that it was precisely on November 4 that the creation of two working groups, as I mentioned, in which they were able to debate and work on the thematic differences, was established unanimously from the same table. Therefore, honourable Member, I am sure that this Government is highly esteemed – and I have said this on many occasions and we will do it again now – the task that is on the side, therefore, the public workers; in high esteem not only because they have suffered and have endured, we can say, hard times to which the crisis has brought us, but also because their quality has not been reduced in all respects. But I also believe that it is good to appreciate it, and it would be a good thing that you could do it, just as I do some agreements that the Spanish Government can do, that the call for 7,721 seats is a positive call, addressed to people's collections, and that I answer to the compromise to stabilize the seedlings, and to make possible the addition of our public servants and, therefore, rejoin, therefore, to what is the Catalan public function. I don't doubt, that's the government's will, it's the one that leads us forward. And, therefore, what you were talking to me about reducing the temporality, meaning that this action, that of presenting an offer of public occupation of 7,721 places, is a first step, an important first step to be able to materialize it. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.39.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. There's the word "Mrs. García Cuevas."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.40.0	Thank you, President. Look, Counselor, the Generalitat no longer has an excuse to maintain the cuts. The economic figures for Catalonia are no worse than for the rest of Spain, on the contrary, and we all have the right to notice it, also the public employees of the Generalitat. Public revenues will increase in Catalonia more than 3,500_million this year, mainly due to the improvement of the economy; GDP will grow by 2,7_per_cent; the economy, 2,8; even thanks to the FLA, we will save 914_million_de_euro in debt interest, with loans that will be renewed to 0_per_cent. Catalan society continues to work, taking advantage of reforms and generating wealth. And public workers have sacrificed a lot by limiting spending. The trend has been reversed and recovery is being consolidated. You no longer have, counsel, the excuse of a limiting, oppressive, disputing state; on the contrary. You don't have to be more cautious, less optimistic, less expansive than Minister Montoro himself, who has signed historical and positive agreements, laws and decrees with the unions – those are – for the public service. Counselor, you no longer have any impediment, neither state nor economic. The only limitation is today in the Government itself. Be brave, plant expensive, comply with public workers. I would like you to reply, in turn, to specific questions that I am going to raise. We need to know how many retirements are planned each year. It is necessary to study staffing, quantify structural and short-term positions occupied by interim or temporary staff, and assess all future staffing needs in each sector. We need a three-year plan that leaves the precariousness at a maximum of 8_per_cent in 2019 and that guarantees the replacement rate of 100_per_cent or 50_per_cent annually, depending on the sector. We need stable and sufficient staffing, because we need efficient and quality public services. We need an independent public function, selected on the basis of criteria and objectives of equality, publicity, merit and capacity, and the interim must also be selected on the basis of these principles. Scholarships must be guaranteed according to objective criteria. We need the table to be convened urgently, and with a completely different will and attitude on the part of the Government. At the table we must go to negotiate, with proposals, with will, with the capacity to reach agreements. The rest is wasting time and disrespecting people. The negotiation of the table must be encouraged. The working groups are not being effective, and you know it, because they have no political decision-making capacity. Let's stop centrifuging, focus on the table. We need proposals and timetable for urgent and indefatigable recovery of the main rights cut since 2012: recovery of the extra payments of 2013 and 2014; we demand a timetable, and we cannot go beyond 2019. I already know it's a lot of money, the one you have to give back, but it's exactly the same one you detracted from dedicating it to other things. Recovery of one hundred_per_cent for temporary incapacity; recognition of thirty_hours per year at the disposal of health workers, something that the other sectors have recognized and that represents an unjustifiable aggravation; recovery of the 0.8_per_cent of the wage mass of the Social Action Fund, for example, in two years– 60_per_cent in 2017 and 100_per_cent from 2018. Returns to the workdays before 2018, but without tricks, counselor, as they have done in teaching with the transfer that are brought between teaching hours and complementary hours, but without lowering the total hours of stay, that Constellera Rigau increased to four_hours, and so continue. Progressive recovery of the right to change two school hours for other activities for teachers older than fifty years; maintenance of appointment and salary in July for temporary teachers; goal of replacements from the first day in priority services or involving attention to people; homogenization of conditions and conciliation criteria for all sectors; recovery of productivity complements. All these questions respond to fair demands of public employees. They all have the backing of the trade unions and the support of the majority of parliamentary groups. Some have even been approved here, in this Parliament, without the government meeting the mandate, the parliamentary mandate – this, yes –, legitimate and democratic. I look forward to your assessment of these proposals and your real commitment to the public service. And know that, to help her move from words to deeds, with conviction, with courage, she will have us on her side, and I am sure, counselor, that she will also have representatives of the public service, as well as most of the parliamentary groups, on her side. Thank you very much, Counsellor, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.41.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Also by the turn of the line, the honourable counselor, Mrs Meritxell Borràs, now has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.42.0	Thank you, Mr. President. My honourable Member, I think you have not listened to me, you have not listened to what I have given you, because I have told you that we are making the offer of public employment on the basis of as much as we can, at the repositioning rate that is allowed at these times. Therefore, repositioning rate, in some bodies, of 100_per_cent, and in others, of 50_per_cent. And if we've increased by seven thousand to what the president of Catalonia announced in this room, once we've assumed, and we've reached 7,721, it's because we get to that maximum that he allows himself from state law. This is a reality that you cannot escape. And, obviously, we go beyond what the decree would allow us to do, in matter, so, in... in the field of education and in the sphere of security, would allow us. Therefore, listen to me, believe me, we are at these times giving the maximum that can be respected to what the Spanish laws allow us. For example, the salary increase: we arrive at '1_per_cent– l'1_per_cent–, which is the maximum topall you have placed. This is a reality. For another band, I insist, we..., listen to me, you are also uncomplicated; we are not told that there has been a good agreement, the one that has been reached between the Government of the State and the different unions, to try to diminish, in a clear way, the temporalization in public office. It is a good agreement, that we have said that we will move to Catalonia, once that passes to the law, and, therefore, we have specific concreteness and we can act. And we agreed, at the bargaining table with the unions, to work there and do it together. Therefore, man, listen to me..., in truth, you, if you want, are going to argue alone, because it ends up only taking into account your own opinions, without attending, therefore, to which the others quote. On the salaries and the return of the payments, therefore, the Government has been giving response to the compromise that came to this chamber, and therefore the 2012 pay is being returned. Precisely this month, 34_per_cent returns, and only the year 2018 is due to return. And they will remain – and, obviously, we are in negotiating lives, we are negotiating it – the 2013 and 2014 payments. But when you talk to us about extra pay and the need for us to get them back in an immediate way... so, I'll be very clear, you have very easy: you know that, in this country, the Spanish government, through the FLA, leaves us our own money. He leaves us our own money, and that's why he hasn't made us pay any interest, which is more than money is worth to return the two extraordinary payments. Therefore, if you return to us in what are the interests that we have to pay for the FLA, we will have the 1,100_million euros worth the two extraordinary payments. Therefore, if you are correct in what you correspond, you do not make us pay the interests of our own money, and, in this sense, listen to me, you can pay them back immediately. You were talking to me about the recovery of working conditions. I've already mentioned it, I haven't mentioned some of them, which have been recovered. It would be fine, that I could say; nothing would happen to him, because I could recognize that the additional days of vacation have returned by old age or that the days of personal insurance have returned, the return of the 2012 pay; that the subjects of temporary disability, the Social Welfare Fund, productivity are being negotiated; and that we have put on the table other themes and other areas that seem important to us, therefore, to pose on the table and to be able to negotiate it. So, believe me, what I think is that you have to make an effort to value what this government has in place as well. Some things do well– something do well–, among others– let's say 'but here' – the return of the days; the return of the 2012 pay; the negotiations that we are due to term; the offer of public occupation, which is the biggest offer since 2009– therefore, an important offer of public occupation, as much as the Government of the State allows us –; the compromise of being able to reach agreement that the unions, with the Government of the State, have arrived... And, therefore, listen, these are realities that exist: compromise the government with public office, with the public worker, and therefore, in this sense, a recognition in its pocket. Many thanks, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.43.0	Thank you very much, Counselor Borràs. [[Question to the Government on the compliment of paragraph I.1.2, "Social requirement for the celebration of a referendum, of Resolution 306/XI, on the general political orientation of the Government]] [[300-00160/11]] The next item is the debate on the Government's compliment on the Social Requirement for the celebration of a reference to Resolution 306/XI, on the general political orientation of the Government, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. To expose her, has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.44.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice-President, I want to begin by making it clear that this inquiry is made with a clear will of cooperation and seeking complicity to make the reference come true. As you know very well, because he participated directly in the negotiations for his final drafting, on October 6th the Parliament of Catalonia approved a resolution, at the proposal of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, which establishes the terms and conditions in which to proceed to the convocation and celebration of the referendum. I would like to remind you – I know you remember – that this resolution was the one that counted with the most votes, that is fully in force – since it was not challenged before the Constitutional Court – and that it is at the origin of the National Referendum Pact – of which there are many social organizations, trade unions and political parties. In short, it is a resolution that counts on democratic legitimacy, legality and broad social support. In this respect, I would like to highlight the work that has been carried out on the National Referendum Pact in order to achieve important support from Spanish social and political forces, as well as from the European Union and the international community. Deixi'm, from modesty but also from pride, claim that good part of these supports are the result of the work that the political forces that we are part of Catalonia Yes that we can be realizing for many years. When some gave as a buffer the reference, we continued to defend its need and utility and provided support for German parties at the level of Spain and the companies of the Green Left and the European Unitary Left. If I put in value these facts, it is not to make merit; it is to deny the immature image of the Spanish society, which does not correspond to reality and which is more dynamic than some people want to recognize – and I hope that during the present day we have some important news about respect–, and also to get out of the step from which we can name the "conversed to the reference", which now allows the luxury to ask us for our other commitments and guarantees, when, if anyone is in condition to demand guarantees and commitments – from modesty, but we are in condition to do so – so is Catalonia Yes it is possible..., those parties that at the time left the reference and did not return to it until the report of the plebiscities and the DUI has been exhausted. I am aware that, unfortunately, the same time that we managed to extend this support to Catalonia, state and European, in the referendum, the opposition has been found to be closed, recalcitrant, on the part of the Spanish Government in relation to the agreement to call the referendum. An opposition with more than questionable arguments, such as the supposed impossibility of holding a reference to those provided for in the Organic Law 2/1980, of references; an opposition which makes it clear that the obstacles are not legal, but are of political will. And it is in these circumstances that it is essential that the referendum of reference, if we want it to be effective, count with the maximum legitimacy, both within the Catalan society and at the level of Spain and at the international level. You've said it on some occasions, and we share it. For the time being, let me tell you – and that is why our question today – that there is no guarantee that things will be done on the part of the government. And it is not a bad idea, but the Catalan Government, which is the one with the greatest responsibility, so far combines generic statements that do not materialise with much rhetoric and little transparency in this matter. The Catalan government, after a successful media falcon such as the "referendum or referendum", remembers that of "yes or yes, eh? – He has only been able to tell us that things are going to be good, which always pleases, sense of doubt; but it is not well known what he wants to say, to do things well, if then, above all, it is not concrete. He tells us, the Catalan government, that he's prepared and willing, but he can't explain it. And you tell us that in your moment, when you touch it, you will already make it public, in a secret and quick way to avoid the challenges of the Spanish government. Honestly, Mr. Vice-President, you have to understand that, when seven months have passed since the adoption of the resolution ordering the Government to take these measures forward, and when only four months are left to arrive at the maximum date set for this Parliament, and the Government has not yet made concrete the way and when it intends to call this reference..., this is a cause of concern, not just ours, but the joint Assembly and Catalan society. Moreover, this lack of concreteness is compounded by the obvious discrepancies within the Catalan Government at the time of truth, at the time of taking responsibility. That is why Catalonia Yes, it can present this question, with a double objective that I would like to make clear from now on: first, to give the opportunity to the Catalan Government to explain in its parliament how and when it intends to develop the resolution of the referendum approved in the general policy debate, and, secondly, to listen well, to offer it, as correspondents of that resolution and firm supporters of the celebration of the referendum, our compromise to do things well and, if possible, to compromise them, which ultimately presupposes the other. Let us hope that you today, Mr. Vice President, will take advantage of this opportunity of this inquiry. We already want to advance it, from all angles, some aspects that are decisive for doing things right. I suppose we share, with you and the government, that a reference is a reference and not anything else, and the first thing we ask is to discard the possibility of converting a reference into a 9-N. They said so, but in their parliamentary office it would be good to listen to him. I hope that we also share that, when we talk about the referendum, we do not only talk about announcing it, but also about calling it legally, celebrating it effectively and, above all, that the result of it is that there are concrete political and legal consequences, that is, that after making the referendum and knowing the opinion of the citizens of Catalonia something has changed, that we are not exactly on the same screen. I suppose we also share with you that doing things right means completing the resolution of the Parliament of Catalonia. And, in this sense, I would like to remind you that the resolution adopted, at the proposal of Catalonia Yes, it is possible, establish – you know, that we have agreed, and, moreover, with difficulty, at the last moment, and you know, because it was the last hour of the last touches, huh? –, the conditions to be fulfilled by the reference, according to the Parliament of Catalonia, whatever its manner, agreed or not – that is what they say, in concrete terms, these points under the consideration of the Parliament –, are the following: to provide it with the maximum guarantees of inclusion by the Catalan society in the call for formulation and organization – is clear, a reference, if it does not have the broad consensus of the sectors of the society, hardly can it be –; secondly, to seek re-examination ahead – remember? – of the European Union and of the international community, and three, that from its celebration are 'with real political and legal effects. I recognize that, at this moment, we are aware of the difficulties of bringing forward this resolution of the Catalan Parliament, of the referendum, with the active and light opposition of the Spanish Government – precisely this is why, this inquiry, to help do things right. But this can never be an excuse to fail the conditions of the Catalonian Parliament and to do things wrong, not to say 'badly', as it is – forgive me if I say it again – for the proposal that was approved yesterday, to proceed with the reform of the Catalonian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The Government is not acting inclusively, Mr. Vice-President, but with exclusions; for example, by appraising the Legal Transition Bill. Winning the resistance of the Spanish Government can, and must, be done with broad and sustained social mobilizations and seeking the recognition of the international community to compensate for this opposition of the Spanish Government, but it cannot be done with supposed strategies of deception, which undermine the democratic quality of Catalonia and Parliament and the rights of parliamentary groups and citizens. You, with your strategy, are ignorant of all of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, which I want to remind you that it is the parliamentary group that presented the resolution that then approved, with its votes, which is at the origin of the National Referendum Pact. You have to recognize that it is a bit strange and democraticly worrying that we will be involved and compromised with the reference when they are imagining information not only to all groups in the chamber – which is the same – but also to those that are behind the initiative that is being developed. And let us be announced that they will present it with a single reading process, avoiding the necessary social and political debate. The Catalan society and the Parliament have the right to make the government concrete as well as when it intends to compliment the resolution of the Parliament of Catalonia. For Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, there is a decisive element to conquer the residents of the Spanish Government – one that is decisive – which is to seek and achieve the anticipated recognition of the international community. I agree with you that it is possible to win this opposition from the Spanish Government, but you assume that you will not tell me that you can hold the opposition from the Spanish Government, not have international recognition and that you make a reference that is recognized and with concrete, effective, political effects. In this respect, I have just asked him this question with three questions: what does the Government intend to do in order to present, in its parliamentary office, a proposal for the development of the resolution adopted by the Parliament of Catalonia on the referendum? How does the government plan to achieve the planned recognition – do I insist, do I? Remember, you and I were patient until the last second? , and this pre-recognition is agreed are served – the pre-recognition of Europe and the international community. Thirdly, how do you intend to ensure that the reference is celebrated with full guarantees and has political and legal effects? I hope that you will take advantage of the opportunity to explain to us exactly what the Government's proposal is, but I am already advancing it as long as you respond as if not, then Catalonia Yes, I can make a proposal that we hope you will see well and that you can be the initiator of a great complicity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.45.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Mr. Coscubiela, first of all I would like to thank you for the fact that you say that you are doing this with a willingness to cooperate. I understand that it always does this, that it always does this with a willingness to cooperate; it would cost me to believe that some time I have asked the questions with a willingness not to cooperate. I therefore welcome the fact that, once again, you are doing so with this willingness to cooperate, which I am sure you know is fully shared by the Government and by those who are speaking to you at this time. Indeed, you reminded us that the resolution to which he refers is the resolution that obtained the most votes in this chamber, that it is a resolution that is in force – because it has not been challenged by the Spanish Government through the Constitutional Court – and that it is the foundation of the National Referendum Pact. I share these statements that you have made, in the same way that you also share the good work that you attribute to the National Referendum Pact. I am convinced that you are doing a good job, that you are doing a job that is very important, very essential, in the search for these consensuses, these consensuses that we all want as wide as possible, let's say. In any case, we may end up discussing which minimum consensus is needed for..., and I will think that the minimum consensus needed is the majority of the citizens of Catalonia, and so you will tell me that there is still a wider consensus, etc., but that we are seeking the maximum consensus..., it is obvious that we are seeking all, the maximum consensus, the same way, also, that we are all seeking the maximum legitimacy possible and that we are convinced that this legitimacy derives, to a large extent, from the consensus with which we do things, from the support we obtain. For this reason, the National Covenant on Referendum, which is a very plural pact, with enormous internal diversity, representing the living forces of our society – the union world, the business world, the world of civic, cultural, etcetera entities – plays a role that is very, very important. You too... I'm trying to resuscitate a little bit the thread of your intervention, and then I'm going to try to give you some extra thought, which I hope is of your interest. You said the government was trying to avoid challenges. The government is doing the job you think it's supposed to do, and it's obvious that they can't make it through all this. And the political-judicial pressure of an organ is the composition of which is decided politically for political parties expressing their opposition to what we are doing here, so it is also very obvious. Political parties which, if we analyze them from the point of view of the later elections, for example, state, of the later Spanish elections that took place in Catalonia, are the minority political parties of our country, and which, on the other hand, name some organs, some judicial bodies, let us say – the Constitutional Court – between which they do not have any scruples to appoint militants of the same party that appoints or exemplifiers of this party, and which use these bodies – and I believe that you must agree with me – to prevent the democratic exercise not only linked to the referendum, but also to the many other rights that should be used by those bodies – and I believe that you must agree with me – to prevent the democratic exercise of this system from being linked to the parliament, but from many other rights that should be used by those bodies – and I believe that you must be in agreement with us, that our governments in the form of this system of parliament, in the form of our governments, in the form of our governments. So it seems to me that it's evidence, that this happens; I don't want to see it I think it's a mistake. I am convinced that you see it, and therefore I am convinced that you share exactly the analysis I have just done. You also said to us: "I don't want to hang medals..., let's say, "I don't want to attribute merits, but the space in which I live," said you, "so, it has gained uplifting support. I celebrate it very much, I am convinced that we are all looking for it; therefore, I thank him for the work done for you, for everyone, for everyone who works in this direction. And, certainly, there are significant supports; in many European parliaments there are groups that follow the events of Catalonia, that follow the walk of the majority of this Parliament, of the Catalan society, in the search for this essential democratic instrument that is the referendum. We have it in the British Parliament, but we have it in many other parliaments: we have it in the explicit support of candidates for the presidency of some European states, we have it in the explicit support of groups of studies of foundations linked to government parties – the main parties, in some cases – of some of the main European states. We find it, too, in many other international areas. So we celebrate it. He knows that I, personally, have also been part of some of these groups in the European Parliament to which you referred, and therefore I also welcome it from this point of view. You said to me: "The reference must have internal consent. It's what we're looking for every day, and I'm sure you're also unaware, that we're looking for it. And we're looking for it through the National Referendum Pact, we're looking for it through all the eyes we have in our abyss. And, I insist, after you may say to me: "But I would like you to go a little further in this direction or that; but in any case, the search for consent, which you say is one of your priorities, I am sure you know that it is also one of the priorities of the Government. He also said: "We must look for the planned recognition. And here I am obliged to tell you that the planned recognition by third states is produced at the time when there is an explicit decision by the citizens of Catalonia, and therefore we will not have a planned recognition to a decision that we are not near. Therefore, recognition is always a consequence of internal decision-making, and so it has been in all cases – in all cases – without exception, that have occurred in Europe, which, of course, have remained a lot, in keeping with the fact that in Europe, at these times, there are more than twice as many states as there were now approximately a century ago. And, therefore, if there are no more than doubles, I mean this path, this path of recognition of statality, this path of recognition of the transformation of the complementarity of a national space, of a space of a political community, of a people, in a state, therefore, it is a path..., if it is very common, if it is majority in Europe, it means that it is normal, and that our aspiration is as simple as adding us to this democratic normality for which nations become states and try to use the tools of the states to build the most effective and successful international cooperation mechanisms possible. Therefore, the recognition will also be a consequence of the decision that the citizens of Catalonia will take. And it's obvious that we're doing everything we can because this decision can be taken and this recognition can come. You also said: "And you must have consequences. We absolutely share this: the outcome of the reference must be a binding result. And, besides, it's that if it's not binding, it won't produce the desired effect of recognition. And, therefore, it seems to me that one thing is connected to the other, and, in this sense, yes, we share with you what you just explained. In fact, we seem to agree that the exercise of any democratic right is intimately linked to the exercise of all democratic rights, and that, in fact, we, all of us – I understand that every one of us and in our conjunction – is obliged to defend each of the democratic rights that are inherent in us as individuals and also as communities – in this case, as a political community – we are obliged to defend each of these rights with all the democratic rights that are present to us, because the democratic rights are closely linked to each other. So, when you were saying: "Calen levels of mobilization..., I seem to have literally said "high and sustained levels of mobilization, I'm not absolutely convinced. If I am here today answering in this Parliament, if I am a Member of this Parliament and if at this point in my life I find myself with a political responsibility, it is above all, almost exclusively – almost exclusively – because I want this country, Catalonia, to be a republic. And I want it not only for herself, which seems to me to be a perfectly legitimate object and a very noble and very high object, but also because I am convinced that it is precisely through the instruments of a state, and therefore from the republican fullness, from the fullness of a republic, that we find all the necessary tools to defend the joint political, economic and social rights of our fellow citizens. And if not, if it wasn't for that, I wouldn't be here, I wouldn't be answering it, I wouldn't be a congressman and I wouldn't take a responsibility at this point, but I would be doing something else in my life. So, we're here to do this. And I hope..., I am convinced that you will also be at our side, and we will be at your side, to ensure that the citizens of Catalonia can decide on their future and can form into this republic that I have always wanted and that I am convinced that now they want the vast majority of the citizens of our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.47.0	Thank you, Vice President. There's a word from Mr. Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.48.0	You haven't said anything, as always, but go... [[The Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History says: "Now that we have gone well... The President laughs.]] Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mr. Vice President, I thank you for recognizing our cooperation and complicity. Unfortunately, I can't recognize you what I asked for. You've done what we were afraid of, and it's that in two minutes of questioning you haven't told us anything about what we've been thinking about: what the Catalan government intends to do, when and how. He has described all the difficulties that there have been, he has described all the perversions, but what I was asking is when and how do you intend to apply the resolution of the Parliament of Catalonia. You must understand that, when four_months are short by the date of the celebration of the reference, we cannot stay in these vagaries, because he asks us for deeds of faith around something we don't know. That is why, as I have already announced, in these moments Catalonia Yes, it is I can formulate them – to you, to the Catalan Government and to the conjunction of the chamber – a proposal to achieve this resolution with the maximum guarantees of summoning the reference and the maximum complicity. To our understanding, to overcome the resistance to excess – never better said – of the Spanish government call two key factors. I have said this: social mobilization and unity policy, and early recognition of Europe and the international community. The social and political mobilization of the Catalan society, in order to be the most inclusive, should revolve around the celebration of the referendum, which is what unites us all, not the final objective of some, and therefore should be done in the framework of the National Referendum Pact; so we will gather it in our motion. And for what it does to the anticipated recognition of Europe and the international community, I recognize it – and that is why I have not proposed it – that we cannot demand the expected recognition of European states, or such European Union alone; it would be naive. That's why we set it up is going to look for this endorsement in the area of the Venice Commission. And I am sure everyone will agree, especially Mrs Rovira, who has always explained – whenever – that we are behind the Venice Commission, to give this endorsement. Why? Why the Venice Commission? For three motius. First, because it has developed a code of good practices on references that count on the approval of the plenary of the Council of Europe with the visa of the Spanish Government. Secondly, because the Venice Commission has extensive experience in advising and issuing reports and opinions on what it does to referendum processes and the conditions in which they will have to be recognizable. Thirdly, because the Venice Commission has a great international authority in these referendum processes, and also – you know – because it has been recognised as a space of authority – does not allow the President of the Generality to quote it as a space of authority – on the part of the Catalan Government, but even – and everything – his code of good practices has been defended here, in this chamber, publicly, for all the parliamentary groups that support the reference: Together for the Yes, the CUP and Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. The Venice Commission, in its code of good practices, has clearly identified which are the conditions that a referendum process must be completed in order to be recognised for the Council of Europe, especially for which it refers to nature, the characteristics of the rule from which the referendum is convened, the minimum terms laid down in which the rules are to be approved, the characteristics of the electoral administration, the guarantees of neutrality of the means of communication, the manner in which the question is asked and the minimum participation and voting requirements, which, moreover, are very broad and kind. That, among other factors. For us, for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, the blockade of the Spanish government cannot be overcome with another flight forward nor with a new full route. And you cannot explain to us that a reference can be made to the opposition of Spain and not just looking for this international recognition, I insist, of the Venice Commission: by the authority that it has, by the authority that it is recognized at the level of Europe, by the authority that we have recognized many of the political forces that we are here before and the same Catalan Government. It is in this sense, Mr Vice-President, that we place him in the position that the Government makes its proposal to come to the Venice Commission to obtain its endorsement of the referendum, for the way in which it is established in its own rules of procedure. And if you look at what I'm saying to you, I'll listen to you all very well: at the referendum, whatever the calling procedure is, and I'm not referring to "agreed, yes, "agreed, no; you do as you do, you have to count with a minimum international endorsement, and this, for us, is that of the Venice Commission. We are convinced that this proposal will count on the support of the Catalan Government and also on the favourable votes of Juntes for the Yes and the CUP, which have repeatedly used the Venice Commission as a legitimate instrument and with authority in terms of references, much so that some possibly from then on say no, but this is at the hemerotecs. I, therefore – I finish – Mr. Vice President, did not take it badly, eh? But you know that... she loves a historical person who fakes and hides, but she has an incredible ability to never answer anything, that's to say, she's able to be talking for two minutes without telling us anything. It does not matter to him, that you ask him this: you are prepared, your Government, to go and seek the approval of the Venice Commission to internationally legitimize the summons of a referendum, whatever its manner, without putting the adjective agreed or not? Because if that's the way it is, I think we can move forward; if not, I'm afraid we'll be ahead of another escape forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.49.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. I've got the vice president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.50.0	Well, good day to everyone again. Mr. Coscubiela, I begin with a very minor morning. My preference for a historical character to which you are always referring, I have never expressed it, and I have never said whether I like it or not; therefore, I have no responsibility to say whether I like it or not. It is you who attribute it to me, and you are free to do what you think is appropriate, as always, let's say it, and I would just miss it, in the same way that I think I must also try to answer, let's try to expose my position beyond what you demand, let's say it. You want me to express myself in a certain way, and I don't, with you; so I hope you accept that I also explain myself in the best way possible. Mr. Coscubiela, if what we're looking for is as much consensus as possible, as much unity as possible, it's obvious that we'll find ourselves here. And I also ask you for maximum consent and maximum unity. And he also asks you to ask all of us for the same thing that you are willing to ask the Spanish government. Because, if you don't, if you ask us to know that the Spanish government will never and will never comply, you are putting on some conditions that you surely know that they are impossible to comply. Therefore, if you act in good faith, as you said – that I do not want to put you in doubt that it is not so – and in seeking this consensus, if you do so from the good will – that I have expressed to you that I also share absolutely – if we condition them are the same for everyone, if the level of demand that you express is the same for everyone, listen, sure we find ourselves there. Because the level of democratic demand that we want to subtly subtly is absolute, and, in fact, we want the citizens of Catalonia to be the ones who decide, with their vote, on the future policy of our country. And our commitment, in this sense – and my personal commitment, I insist, as I said at the end of my previous intervention – is total. Therefore, it is more clear than our will to subtly subtly these democratic rules that I have just explained to you. So, listen, if the agreement that you're proposing to us is an agreement in which all parties..., and you're on condition to demand them from all parties, I, delighted to seek this consensus. But, I insist, don't pretend to lay down some conditions that you know are insurmountable, as you see the systemic attitude of the Spanish government through its organs. And I've already explained to him that there is one of these organs, that it's a political name, that he won't have a scruple or that he doesn't have a scruple in accusing us, in complaining, in disabling us, and they do it from an extremely low political and moral position, as I seem to think it's manifest every day. And, therefore, let us not associate with those who are in a position of political and moral fever in the decisions that take to impose themselves on the democratic legitimacy of which we are all assisted and which is attended by the people of Catalonia. So, if it's in these conditions, if it's from this perspective that I expose, I'm sure we can hear each other. In any case, we will analyze, as we always do, all the contributions that come to us. And in respect of the work done by the National Referendum Pact, I have already explained it many times – and I regret that I have explained it so many times..., perhaps I have not done it very well – I have always said that the compromise that we have, and I understand that it stems from the fact that many of us here today support the constitution of this National Referendum Pact, is that the date and question of a possible reference that was not granted to the Spanish Government will be produced when the National Referendum Pact has ended its effort to force, to try to help, to try to accompany a reference granted. Because, if not..., who would have felt that we were announcing the date and the question of a reference that perhaps, unfortunately, could not be granted, if while they are still trying to advance on this path, and precisely they are asking us. So, I..., as you can imagine, as soon as possible better. And if instead of being here talking about who the conditions are for making the republic, we are celebrating the desire or the twenty-year anniversary of the republic, you can imagine that I would be very happy and that I might have been, at last, a stage of political participation in my personal life. [[The Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History riu.]] So, I'm sure you know that more enthusiasm and gain than we do, and that I do, in this case, so it's impossible to find it; maybe someone can match it, but..., impossible to find it. Therefore, let us seek this consensus and seek that the demands that we make ourselves do not follow the demands that prevent us from fulfilling the mandate that the people of Catalonia have given us, especially according to the attitude that I am convinced that from a political and moral point of view it is clearly insufficient and clearly removed from the good practices that should characterise Europe on the part of the Spanish Government. Thank you very much, Mr. Coscubiala.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.51.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the poverty of women]] [[302-00136/11]] The fourteen points of the order of the day is: Motion following the question to the Government on the poor women, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.52.0	Thank you, President. We all agree to end poverty and ensure equal opportunities, don't we? People are not poor because they want to, people are not poor because of a fate fairy. There are a number of conditions that attract many people to not be able to lift their heads, and if we look at the statistics we discover that – oh, the mysteries of life – a great percentage are women. And the numbers don't cheat: seven_of_each_ten people who go hungry in the world are women, the wage gap between men and women in Spain is 26_per_cent, and the rate of female poverty in Catalonia has risen 3 points in a single year. Janis Joplin already said it in« Women Is Losers : « The woman, loser, while the knight of the shining armor reaches the top anyway. And this is not because women are 'weaker, smaller and less intelligent,' as that cenutrient said in the European Parliament; this is because society tends to favour men to earn bread, and, on the other hand, because we tend women to care for the family. Only 4_per_cent of parents ask for a reduction in paternity leave, and 95_per_cent of those who do not have employment to care for dependents are women. In the middle of the 21st century, we have problems reconciling our work and family life, and if you are a single mother, then you have it very difficult not to end up in a situation of real precariousness. We go through the anguish of having to ask ourselves the choice between our professional career or maternity, and if, by chance, you think of choosing your career, the pressure that exerts part of your environment generates a feeling of guilt for not fulfilling your reproductive role. So, given the lack of co-responsibility in household tasks, the difficult conciliation, the wage differences between men and women, the high unemployment rates that women have and the precarious work in jobs with a high female presence, we have to add to the social pressure exerted by the alarming low birth rate, which has reversed our population pyramid. " Who will pay our pensions if you have no children? I've been asked about this. And, well, children are not yet born by spontaneous generation, so, if we don't want to ignore the elephant this one we have in the room, we will have to work eagerly in the effective achievement of equality between men and women, and it is up to us to work eagerly for everyone. And for that you have to go to the material conditioning, to the root. Therefore, one of the measures we propose is to set up a working group in this Parliament to analyse the structural causes that prevent many women from developing their talent or their life plan without depending on the « knight of the shining armor that comes in his chariot to save you, as the stories that told me when I was a child were praying. This leads me to proposals aimed at articulating measures to encourage co-responsibility in the work of the home in schools, or at articulating educational measures that break the negative relationship between gender and technology. And, if we talk about childhood, the difficulties women face in reconciling their social, family and work lives are a determining factor of child poverty, and this leads me to the proposal to design and promote a quality seal as recognition for those companies that include effective reconciliation measures, as well as incentives for those companies that encourage reductions in paternity days. It is difficult to summarize in five_minutes all the proposals that Citizens have put forward in this motion, with a section of concrete measures aimed at specific groups, such as women with disabilities, trans people and victims of gender-based violence. It is not a question of victimizing women, but of addressing the material causes that lead to a disproportionate rate of social exclusion. It was necessary to address the objective facts by which feminization was a factor of poverty and to go to structural causes in order to ensure that women could freely develop their life plan on an equal footing. An advanced society is one in which no one is excluded and where equal opportunities are guaranteed. Today there are some who are constantly looking for what divides us, and if there is one thing that can surely unite us all Catalans, all parliamentary groups, all Members who are here today, it is the search for equal opportunities. Ortega and Gasset said that reality, when ignored, becomes vengeful; let us pay attention to reality, not only for ourselves, but for society as a whole. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.53.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. De la Calle. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word the lady Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.54.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, this young man from Ciutadans implicitly establishes a relationship between the work of the lar and the poor, and this means poor women, since it is the women who mostly care about the house and also, and above all, about the care of the people. This relationship is also indisputably observed in a book that recommends them – it is boníssim –: The value of time, of the María Ángeles Durán. Dr Durán has devoted a good part of her work as a researcher to this subject, after reflecting on the following: "It was incomprehensible to me that the Faculty of Economics in which she was teaching at that time should give more analytical importance to the birth of cows and sheep than that of children, and that we should have better periodic information on the tons of coal that were extracted than from the effort and time that were necessary to maintain in normal working conditions, that is, of average well-being, life within households. It seems lied that no economist had ever asked himself, perhaps because no economist had ever changed his mind or accompanied his mother to the gynaecologist; it was hot for a feminist researcher to focus on it. The case is that the healing and domestic work are great devourers of time. To put them - in an example, it has been calculated that the unpaid healing of salvation consumes again more time than the one that is inverted throughout the health system. To put them - in another example, when the Angels Durán monetizes all activities of cleanness, stewardship, maintenance and cure, that is, translates them into money, it turns out that they are the equivalent of more than 25_percent of GDP. If they've fixed themselves, I've insisted on talking about the healing time, and I stress why incorporating this concept into the motion was one of our considerations. Finally, when a person has to devote many hours to care and home, there is no room for paid work. The differences, therefore, between women and men for whom he does business and wealth have always been enormous, to the detriment of women, obviously. And since 2008 the crisis has been used to create even more inequalities between them and them, starting, for example, from the lack of protection of markets– see, for example, the increase of partial days, particularly between women– or the withdrawal of the welfare state– see, for example, the lack of children's homes, residences for large people or the darkening of hospital stays. And, all folded, love with institutional laxity. Some of the extremities of the last report of the Workers' Committees on the analysis of the social, economic and labour situation of women in Catalonia allow us to continue to see the inequalities between women and men. In Catalonia, women are 52_percent of the major population of seven years old, but in change, we do not become the half of the active population: we are almost 60_percent of the inactive, because one_of_each_four women has the need or the obligation to take care of infants, dependent people, ills, disabilities or large. It increases the wage gap between men and women, and stands at 26_per_cent: a median of 7,000_less for women than for men. And this Brittany already exists in the case of young women, it does not diminish to the length of working life and up to some extremely alarming for what it does to pensions. Precarity affects women more in all age groups, in all occupational areas, in all types of contracts and in all categories. There are 25.9_percent of women– or still, one_of_each_four– with paid work who are at risk of poverty. Young and older women of sixty-five are the most deprived people in Catalonia. For migrating women, activity taxes are higher than those of native people. All in all, the difference in activity rate between men and women migrated is twenty-one points, unfavorable for women. And this unfavorable difference for women, far from shrinking, has increased. Such a time is the unfortunate consequence of the irregular work of many of these women, who, of course, take on domestic and curative work that we do not do native women and who, naturally, do not do men either. That's why we've incorporated a theme into the apartment that refers to the collection of especially vulnerable women, so that we also take into account the migrated women. We would have liked it very much if Citizens had been able to accept the message about the deployment of the healing and healing services – services that have been greatly reduced in detail, which has affected women twice: it has forced many more hours of dedication to the healing and has deprived them of much work in public office – but, for the sake of unanimity, it has not been possible to accept them. For what it does to the rest of the House, which certainly addresses the different aspects that I have mentioned in this speech, we would vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.55.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. Next, has the word Ms. Marta Moreta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.56.0	Thank you. Good morning. MPs, MPs, Councillors, it is clear and clear that the poor woman is a fact, a reality; we have to say with all the letters. And it's still more certain that we're very, very far from securing the real fight against the poor because of gender, the poor of women towards men, of course. There are many examples, such as social and work reconciliation, the wage choice between men and women, the co-responsibility between men and women, the reconciliation of working and social time, female unemployment and job insecurity... And I could go with a lot of other examples that have already been mentioned here. To a great extent, we could say that the treatment of the female poor is divided into various visions: the more linear – the more qualitative – and the more multidimensional visions. We can talk about poor women focused on the monetary question: income, tickets, consumption. The poor woman has come to social inclusion: the poor person is in a situation of social exclusion. But why are we talking about feminization of the poor? Because it is a finding, deputies and deputies; because there is much more incidence of poverty in women than in men, or, in other words, the poverty of women is more severe than that of men. Let's say loud and clear, exclusion is conditioned by gender identity, which relates to the sexual division of labour and the different conditions of work between men and women. The poverty risk rate has increased by 1.1 points compared to the previous year and is 20.9_per_cent, according to the latest data from the Idescat. The overall increase, however, in reality reflects an increase of almost 3 points in the female fee, as Mrs. Naomi of the Street once said: we have gone from 18.8 to 21.6, while there is an obvious decrease in the male fee. The discrimination of women in the labour market and the need for reconciliation of paid work with the healing tasks mean that women have lower employment rates, lower working hours, higher time and lower wages. This leads to the fact that, by mid-January, contributions are reduced, which means that there are fewer tickets when they are paid for the loan or a contributory pension. And let me hide: the women, in midjana, have more training. Yes, yes; more training, we have the gifts. That's not what anyone's looking at. More training than men, it's obvious. But that's no use, because the occupancy rate is higher in women, it's still higher in women. I, proportionally, there are three times more women than men who work part-time. The weather generally decreases among the Catalan population, with the obvious exception of the collection of women over fifty-five years old. And, finally, and as for the papers we have made to the Citizens' Group, we are pleased that we have accepted a modification theme in which we called for the drafting of a specific training plan for technical studies that will stem the negative relationship between gene and technology to encourage the enrolment of women in plans for studies and university studies in the technical whites, where obviously the presence of women is inferior. And we have also accepted the incorporation of a new agenda calling for a strategy for the effective equality of wages between men and women, with the involvement of business, political and social fabric, before the end of 2017, to achieve that in Catalonia by 2020 we are talking about zero wage discrimination – I don't know if we will achieve it. We regret, however, that the Ciutadans Group does not accept the incorporation of the slogan of the « zip lists, which we say, in order to find the equality of the political participation of women. And, finally – the president, I finish – we have come to the agreement with a similar wording to another theme that called for promoting the full social inclusion of women who suffer from physical, psychological or sensory disabilities to the ordinary enterprise. We will vote in favour of the total of the motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.57.0	Thank you, Mrs. Moreta. Next, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.58.0	Thank you, President. Well, we celebrate the show and support it, in general terms. We will only abstain in the second point, because you refer to "business incentives, do not specify any more there, and then we will abstain; it would be much longer to explain, but it seems to me that it is obvious. We have made statements; some have not accepted, others have not. Therefore, in general terms we celebrate the motion and the methodology of work. Still, we would like to put a reflection on the table, which we believe is essential. I mean, the place is very long, a little concrete. You, in fact, have done an analysis of gender inequality, an analysis that spoke of material reality. However, the proposals we have for the young person are, say, very superficial, or do not attack what we understand to be the plot of gender inequality. There's been talk of the poor woman, even of the poor woman's feminization. We believe it is essential to talk about patriarchal capitalism, and it is not a slogan: it is a reality, it is an analysis that all feminist economists are doing and it is an indispensable analysis. There's been a lot of data. It seems to us that I cannot repeat what I mean by the wage choice, the temporality, that we cover less pensions, etc. But what has not been said is that the sexual division of work is not a question of just passing on to the houses or passing on in terms, say, small, but that the sexual division of work has to do with a certain logic of the organization of the economy, and that is that there is the productive economy – which is the visible, the paid, the recognized – and the reproductive economy. The reproductive economy, which is essential because the other function, is that which has no wages, which is invisible, which is made out of love, and which, moreover, is global. I mean, the cure crisis is global. When the Catalan women stop caring for our children or our parents or making dinars, we contract other women who migrate from other countries and who, at the same time, have other women from their families or contracted, who also do the reproductive and healing tasks. Therefore, it is a world logic that we believe is essential to address, if what we want to end is the discrimination of women. Male violence is one of the tips of the iceberg of all these dynamics. And we understand that's why the lady said so, don't we? – somehow, you have proposals..., that we will give support to it, but they do not go to the scene of the conflict. We understand that in order to end the female poor, with the discrimination of gender and with the sexual division of labour, there are feminist policies; feminist policies, so to speak, both concrete and transversal. And there are feminist policies that wander beyond quality segelles, quotas and conciliation, without demerging from these policies, because, moreover, all the measures that go towards equality have always come from feminist movements and compromised women. What we're talking about is that there's not enough of this, to end the gender inequality. And when we call down feminist policies, we doubt that all the deputies and the deputies of this chamber are united. Because we understand that the feminist policies that they do are challenging this logic of the world's economic and productive organization, and therefore the one that incorporates feminist policies because it is an anti-capitalist and transformational logic of everything. Therefore, we doubt that here we can hear everyone and everyone. The CUP's already set up. In fact, a campaign of feminist municipalities, a humble campaign, has begun, but they want to point out this type of inequality and give them a logic and a structural and critical analysis. We understand that what is to be done is to start from that idea so simple, but so complex to make reality, that the women are people; that idea so radical that it is that it articulates the feminist movements of the world and that it motivates the fights of women that run away from the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.59.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Next, has the word Ms. Anna Figueras, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.60.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, as the street deputy explained to us, and as I think it has become clear with the intervention of the deputies who have preceded me, she did it quoting Valcarcel, if I am not mistaken..... in any case, it remains pale, therefore, that the poor..... is said to have a bride's face. And it is true that, in the past and with these last crises, our country has rejected, let us say, an intense feminization of the poor. That's why we want to put it in store, and we appreciate it, so the fitness of this young man, and so we'll give support to most of the twenty-four points that ended up having, in the end, this young man. We also want to say that, obviously, we do it because there are many points that are already collected, let's say, in the work and government action that I will detail later. And that the government has been working for a long time on certain points that they are already returning to this young man is not worthy of the parliamentary group that I represent, and neither will he be worthy, therefore, only of what you have proposed. It is certainly worthy of the government's will, and it is worthy of a grande that has this chamber, and it is the fact of agreeing, from years ago, in policies of kind, most of the parliamentary groups, of the parliamentary forces that are in this chamber. I, therefore, would like to highlight the consensus that has always existed: for example, to bring forward the Law against General Violence, of 2008; the Law of Effective Equality between Men and Women, of 2015 – a law that we will then have to talk about – and/ or the Law to guarantee the rights of LGBTI people against homophobia, of 2014. And, from Junts to Yes, so, we come with this spirit of agreement, huh? Today we are telling them that we in the poor woman are not going to debate it as a matter of confrontation or political instrumentation; therefore, today there will be no presence. We come with the highest willingness to do so... and continue to work for the best of the living conditions of these women who suffer from a situation of vulnerability. We would also like to thank, in this sense, the whole and the will of the group proposing and, in concrete terms, of Mrs Naomi de la Calle. And let me say, if I may say so, that I hope, therefore, that future agreements in social policies will follow. I know that in other areas we won't agree, but I'd really like it that way. With respect to the concrete motion, listen, we will support the points that lay the creation of the working group on the feminization of the poor; create incentives for companies to encourage redoubling of paternal days; prevent labor risks with a gender dimension; develop the law's regulations 17/2015, all of which, because you know that there is a part that is being used, and you could help us develop it all – and here..., after I speak to you –; concrete actions, let's say, to protect sexual and reproductive rights– the same chamber has an intergroup of development, population and reproductive salvation, of which, therefore, I have the fate and pleasure of being the coordinator. So, no problem, we'll give them support here. Or in the work for the specific collectius; it is essential to be able to work with specific collectius, in the world of the poor. So, in all of this, you get the support. What I'd like to do is to do some of the things we've proposed to you. At point number three, we'll abstain. Your proposal is to create educational measures that stifle the negative relationship between gender and technology. In this, the Government is working, and has been working for a long time: with the Improvement and Innovation Programme in Masters Education; with the Young Search Awards; with the Recekids Programme; with the Government Agreement of 13 September 2016, the SmartCAT strategy, which includes a programme to promote technological vocations among women, is approved; and, among others, with the Dona and Science Commission, the Interuniversity Council, which has been created, which among other aspects deals with the development of women's policies in the field of higher education and research by the Interuniversity Council. Listen to me, I'm falling a little bit. Tell him, therefore, that we have made other papers, but, finally, highlight the point 8, which proposes to sail especially for the compliment of the Organic Law 3/2007, for the effective equality of women and men..., man, tell them that in this matter Catalonia has own competences; it has own legislation and it has powers, in this matter. You know that we have our own legislation – before I said it, the law of 2015 – and here you should help us. Mainly those articles that could improve women's employability have been resorted to; really, huh? ...,a subject as important and as important as today's one. Therefore, we encourage you, who now have more in Madrid, to make all these recurring articles of the law, if you please, so we can pull them forward for this, to bring to completion this point number 7 that you ask us, the development of the whole of the Law 17/2015. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.61.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Figueras. Then, in order to fix his position, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.62.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, well, we're in front of a young man who approaches and tries to give an answer to a reality that today, therefore, should be overtaken, but that's not it. Women, in general, unfortunately, are the ones who suffer the most from the lack of resources, not only economics, but also opportunities, in many areas. The past few years have witnessed historical successes in reducing the number of people living in poverty, successes that will allow – and I am not convinced – to put the extreme poor in the next generation. But for this to eliminate the multiple causes of unemployment, and one of the most important is gender discrimination, which imposes a disproportionate burden on women. When women are poor, their rights are not protected, they face obstacles that can be extraordinarily difficult to overcome. This situation gives as a result deprivations in their own lives and lost to society in general and to the economy, as it is well known that the productivity of women is one of the main engines of economic dynamism. If as many women as men suffer from poverty, gender discrimination means that women have fewer resources to deal with it. Basically that's why they have fewer options at work or start trading, and the data reflect that. It is also true that proper education can be out of its abyss, and some of them are concerned with sexual exploitation as well as the essential struggle for survival. This young man – he was also told – deals with many questions, perhaps mass, right? , because with so many points – that will surely be approved all – we can lose, and to want to fill so many themes, so it is difficult that it is possible to give compliment to everything. We have a clear legal framework, both at state and autonomous level. What's going on is that some of the laws aren't even deployed at all yet, or, at the time of applying them, they should be done much more forcefully. Well, this, Mrs. De la Calle, is a young lady who sees as the ring to the saying before listening to yesterday, to the Commission of Igualtat, representatives of the Unitarian Platform against Gender Violence, who submitted a report to us; a report that made an X-ray of the situation of the women who have this grave, right? And it is clear that much more resources are needed to prevent, and, above all, to raise awareness of our society. It is also a young man who sees us as the ring to the said because yesterday, precisely yesterday, the European Commission gave a green light to a proposal to promote reconciliation between work and family life, where it is envisaged, among other things, that the parents and the seas can enjoy both of them from a parental leave of four months and that they will be able to take over during the first twelve years of the child's life; a measure that we celebrate, because its main objective is to increase the opportunities for men to take parental and child care responsibilities and to help increase the participation of women in the labour market. Well, tell her, to the deputy of Ciutadans, so we'll give support to the young lady, less at the point of desire, for consistency, right? At this point, your group asks to give a compliment to motion 89/XI's point 3.d, in which the government goes to term an institutional campaign in favor of abhorrence, and, in the same way as we opposed it at the time, we oppose it today. Therefore, for consistency, we will vote against this point. And, well, to end – to end – he wanted to take advantage of the occasion to launch a message to the representatives of the CUP, a message that also sees as the ring to the saying, huh? , because today, precisely today, we celebrate the patroness of Catalonia, the Sea of God of Montserrat. And ask them – ask them – to the representatives of the CUP, who, on the margin of their beliefs, are coherent, eh? , because you, fill your mouth to say that you can't discriminate against anyone... I would ask you to please—please—the same way that we defend postures in which we absolutely disagree but respect it, do the same, too, when it comes to religious beliefs. And I look, honestly, I can't imagine their cadells, those who yesterday raised the number to Montserrat, doing the same in other worship centers where some people, in the name of religion, using religion, cut heads to gays and lesbians. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.63.0	Thank you, Mrs. Xandri. Next, there's the word "Mrs. Naomi of the Street," to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.64.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor..., I would like to thank the parliamentary groups that have tabled amendments, which have enriched the motion. Thanks to deputies Gemma Lienas, Marta Moreta, Anna Figueras and Mireia Vehí for the predisposition to reach an understanding. And thanks also to Marisa Xandri, who has not tabled amendments, but has also been very interested in the motion. Our will has been to try to collect all the contributions, although at some point it has been difficult to fit them all; but, in general, I believe that there is still a consensus text that we can adopt unanimously on most points. And I'm glad it is, because, as I said in my previous speech, we have an elephant in the room, a very large elephant, which seems to us to be obvious, but as we keep ignoring it, it's going to pass over us and it's going to be too late. A point to the deputy Anna Figueras: that there are some articles that have been suspended from the Catalan law does not exempt the Government of the Generalitat from enforcing the articles of the Spanish law, which are therefore practically identical and which, well, there are and must be complied with. Measures such as those to be adopted today, which facilitate conditions for effective equality between men and women, are policies that significantly reduce poverty risk rates, improve the conditions of children and enable women to better develop our talent. But this motion is not a miraculous solution: it is much, what remains to be done, because the causes of this problem are so rooted in society that sometimes I think they are part of the core of this planet. Deputy Vehi, I wish it were possible to end patriarchy with a motion. That is why I hope that the working group we want to see established in this Parliament to address the feminization of poverty becomes a reality and is a useful tool for advancing equal rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.65.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. De la Calle. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. Mrs. Figueras, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.66.0	Yes, Madam President, for a separate vote on point 3, point 9, 11a.4 and 12.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.67.0	Mrs Vehi, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.68.0	To ask for a separate vote on item 2, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.69.0	Two. [[Pause.]] Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.70.0	Vote separate from point 10.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.71.0	Yes, I had it pointed out, that the... some of these points, which were asked to vote separately, can they vote together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mrs. Figueras?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.72.0	Yes, President. The points we asked him to vote for separately, we could put them together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.73.0	I mean, on the 3rd, on the 9th, on the 11th, and on the 12th, could they vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.74.0	Yeah. For our part, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.75.0	Yeah? [[Pause.]] Do you all agree that points 3, 9, 11.a.4 and 12 are voted together? [[Pause.]] So, let's get started. We will vote first point number 2; then points 3, 9, 11.a.4 and 12; then point number 10, and then the rest of the vote. All right? [[Pause.]] So, let's start the vote by voting point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 119 votes to 10. We will continue to vote on points 3, 9, 11.a.4 and 12. The vote begins. Points 3, 9, 11.a.4 and 12 were approved by 70 votes in favour, against and 60 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 10. The vote begins. Point 10_has been approved by 121 votes to 9, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Women's Poor Movement has been approved by 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the fight against hard work and job insecurity]] [[302-00138/11]] The next point, the fifteenth point of the order of the day, is: Motion subsequent to the question to the Government on the fight against hard work and job insecurity, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mr. Pol Gibert. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.76.0	Thank you, President. Members and Members, today the Socialist Group is presenting a motion that must be understood as part of a much broader joint. This proposal is part of the campaign that some unions are carrying out in order to denounce the multi-serve enterprises and the precariousness of their policies; a campaign that is having an influence on the social fabric and also trade union, but also, in a very important part, institutionally, with motions in many assemblies and local councils. As is well known, this issue has been a battlehorse at the Congress of Deputies, and they have made up to three different attempts to achieve the processing of a proposal that limits the occupational degradation that this practice entails. What this young man is pursuing is helping to recover the principle of equal work, equal pay, defended in the later Labour Reform of the People's Party. Moving on to what is the detail of the young man, we find a very clear one: to recover the social dialogue as based on labor relations. The attacks that occurred in the past few years in the social dialogue have been blunt, and have broken the equality of arms that had characterized collective bargaining. It's time to regain the lost balance. On the other hand, the second point that the motion backs up speaks directly of what we believe to be a priority: the modification of Article 42.1 of the Staff Regulations, as well as other regulations that Catalonia's companies do Yes, it is possible to believe that they are convenient and that we also share, in this sense. It is basic to be able to ensure that the sectoral agreement of reference applies as a minimum, also in the case of subcontractions. We can't have workers doing the same job in the same company and covering one half of the other; we can't go on allowing it. It may be necessary to recover the principle of equal conditions before equal tasks and to avoid the use of a subcontracted person assuming more benefits thanks to the reduction of labour rights. And in order to combat the precariousness that floods the labor market, we believe that it must, once again, manifest that this is not a phenomenon that is irreversible, that this has some authors, that this does not come from a divine imposition. This situation has an engine that supports and drives it, and this engine is called labor reform. On the other hand, we want to ensure that public procurement is a lever of change to foster a balanced and equitable work model. That's why we need to use this power that represents public procurement to avoid squandering businesses that are pre-charitable. We must avoid precaritzin, of course, but we must prevent precaritzin using public funds. And if we're talking about devaluation of working conditions, we can't forget one of the collections that suffers the most from the economic crisis and precariousness, as well as labor abuse: the young. The young lady included a specific point that makes a call to action. To the question we made it very clear: we insisted, to the councillor who had answers on this subject, that he said what he wanted to do about youth insecurity. There was no way, we didn't get any type of response. Let's hope the government reacts to the approval of the young lady. And lastly, a point we didn't want to include; in fact, it's a point we shouldn't have. The parliamentary groups should not ask for motions approved more than a year ago to be completed. We should not do it, we should complete and little more, but we are forced to do it, basically because they are motions that touch fears that directly affect the quality of work of thousands and thousands of workers. And, therefore, we must insist, once more and what you need, to see how this is done and why we must not continue to come to this Parliament to claim what is already approved once and for all. Thank you, President. Thank you, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.77.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gibert. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.78.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, us, in the literal content of the motion, we agree, if well, that we have to hear it as a follow-up to the PSOE's strategy against active labour reform, so... this deserves some comment, which I will go further ahead. Now, whoever develops a social, trade union, political action that follows, against precariousness, we will give support to it, and, therefore, we will vote in favour of the whole motion. At the end and end, the same problem that arises at some points in the case is what also motivated the reform of the Law of Cooperatives to attack the exploitation that is produced under the rule of false cooperative. And we also ask for the same question that was asked of the question that preceded this motion: more work inspector action by the department. Yes, we have put forward some ideas, so, how to bring this debate to public procurement – we think that it is more used and more ranked, that it would be appropriate to have these debates about subcontracting to the public sector – or to define some concrete mechanisms because these clauses make it difficult to win businesses that want to precarious through the bottom. In the end, it is an ambitious move, to prevent companies from winning these contests based on lowering and pre-chariting the job. And, therefore, it requires a good enough job to prevent these companies from finding themselves quickly, once the legal arrangements are in place, the choice for which they will not succeed. That said, we do want to add to the debate the reflection on which responsibilities each political actor has – past, present and future – in the fight against precariousness, because I did not remain in a motion text which, in our view, is also sufficiently separate from what was raised in the inquiry. When we talk about past responsibilities..., man, wage devaluation mechanisms, there were no longer before the 2012 labor reform, and some with the PSOE to the government. Talking about labor reform is the engine of pre-care isn't true, huh? There have been many job reforms before, there has been the introduction of temporary work enterprises, etc. This has all led to the current work landscape. It is true that this reform has made it qualitatively and quantitatively worse. Regrettably, the PSOE opposes the defence of those things that are not once done to the government..., the PSOE and, we understand, the whole of European social democracy, and then, then, we see the results that we see in France this day. That is to say, one of the causes of the defeat of French socialism is a reform, precisely work, because this socialism that the opposition demands– win rights and gain space for work to the detriment of capital–..., then a break to power, not only does not advance in rights– such as the reduction of the day or, for example, the reduction of the retirement age–, but even more so, right? , and implements a labour reform. As for the present responsibilities to combat labour reform, we have them in Catalonia, of course, as it was asked in the inquiry, right? It means that that inquiry is directed very much at the skills of the council, but then we find ourselves with a young man who focuses mainly on where the real power in labor matters is, which is in the State, and this is one of the contradictions..., and we talk about future responsibilities in the fight against labor precariousness. We think that Catalonia must have all the sovereignty over its brand of labor relations. And that's why we introduced an item, which was not finally accepted, which had, therefore, as two parts. First of all, we want this debate on labour relations to focus on Catalonia, and we remember that we are about to open a working group on the Catalan labour relations mark; this is already approved and is due to be given later or later – let's hope that more than an hour... – in the March of the Commission of Treball, that this debate group is being opened. And then, looking further, we claim that in the march of a process they constitute and of a republic... they are the key to many of the panies that allow us to respond to these folds of the working class and of the European left in the march of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.79.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Next, the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.80.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. MPs, MPs, we agree on the foundation of this young man. We appreciate the acceptance of the papers or the transaction corresponding to some of them, and therefore announce, from the outset, that we will all vote for it. While we have some reservations in the form, at the same time – let me expose them – more than anything else because there is a good part that we include in that package of labor motions that express above all desires or that demonstrate good intentions, but as we have the skills that we have in this matter, and more than a few parties limit them by approving the labor reform that still gives less skills to governments as labor authority and leaves precisely in the hands of the enterprise decisions that sometimes harm the interests of workers and workers, this allows the Government of Catalonia to make explicit declarations of progress in the labour market without the need for it to be applied directly, or because it cannot touch it. It's not a criticism. It's not a review, because we're all doing it, huh? We all do that: let's apply it to 'no bread', good are cakes. I say to you, look, "I want to push through the social dialogue the necessary measures to combat precariousness in the contract, all right, all right. But what measures do we take in charge of the government? How do we control that they make them effective? So, that's what I'm saying, huh? , it's a statement point, which, obviously, we share – I suppose he must all share. The second point is more concrete: to modify a concrete article of the Staff Regulations. What's going on? That... we pass him death to Congress of Deputies, which is who has the power to modify labor legislation. Well, here we have presented a point that wants to make it a little wider, a little more extensive, because we would certainly have to review all of Article 42, not just 42.1, and certainly some aspect of labour reform, to ensure what you say you want to ensure, that subcontracting is done in the same conditions that the workers of the companies of origin have, as at least applying the sectoral agreements of reference. Point 4 is once again declared and of good will, because it refers repeatedly to the consequences of labour reform, to the disarmament of one of the parties to collective bargaining, one of the parts which has brought us, precisely, to the reduction of wages and to the impoverishment of working conditions, which allows us to say 'competitiveness of enterprises, but always because of labour costs, right? We will again declare, therefore, today and here, that we do not want it people, even though surely those who voted for it there are parties that in their moment promoted it. But, finally, they are the characteristics that we have today in this Parliament. In point 5 we tried to make a message transforming the feeling into a positive one, for a question of real possibility to do what it asks. It is difficult, in public competitions, to prevent certain undertakings such as the multi-serve companies to which it refers; but, in change, we can demand – indeed we can demand – precisely in the framework of the debate on public contracts that we will have, that these fill in some guarantees for their workers and workers, that they should not be others, as well as at least, that suit them in the sector. The same goes for point 6: we cannot prevent them from being present, but we can demand that they apply the sectoral agreement and not a business agreement, which may be in worse condition. Point 7 is again a generic point or a wish point or a good one, because taking actions aimed at avoiding juvenile precarization is obviously desirable, but clearly, as we do not make it concrete, let's not say which ones... I'm sure the Catalan government will be happy with what it says it is already doing, and the reality is what it is obviously. And finally, point 8 is a rubble point, a rubble point that is already turning into a classic, into this Parliament: if the government doesn't do what they say the motions they approve and then they fall, then, well, we give them a second life and ask them to complete certain points of these motions, to see if they make us weighed and make us insistent they complete them. Here too we have added, to the list, some points not complete from Motion 10/XI. One, precisely – as tomorrow is the International Day of Safety and Health... – that speaks of giving validity and compliment to a prioritized calendar of concrete measures for prevention, and another that is a specific action plan of the Labour Inspectorate of Catalonia in relation to conducts against labour rights. In summary, then, we will vote in favour. And let's hope that in three or four months' time, if there's still a legislature, we won't have to present another young man with shady points like this one we're presenting today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.81.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Next, has the word Lord Chakir the Homrani, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.82.0	Thank you very much. President, Members and Members, let us start the debate on a motion in which I believe that a large part of the groups would agree, in their majority. First of all, to thank the willingness of the deputies who brought this young man, both Pol Gibert, the promoter, as well as Albert Botran and Marc Vidal, who are the other groups who have submitted papers, to look to square it a little bit. I believe that the papers have not been able to enrich and improve, in certain more technical aspects, the writing. She's a young man who deals with three... I'd tell you three different sides, two of them very interrelated. In the first place, there is a whole part more linked to the debate on the modification of Article 42.1 of the Staff Regulations, this article that regulates the subcontracting of works and services, and in what way can we reach that principle which is basic and which is central, which is: equal work, equal working conditions – equal working conditions. The second point or second aside that deals generically with this motion is the creation of procedures and mechanisms to ensure the fight against precariousness in the framework of the public contract. And the third point, we could say, is to continue to compliment other motions presented earlier. I'll focus very quickly on this point, because I don't want to devote too much time. These motions..., the reports have been presented and they are being carried out, and they are in operation, and a great deal has been done. Sometimes what has been generated is that the ‘times that are marked...', certain changes in policies take longer. We will vote in favour of it, because we have achieved a deal, and I believe that it is giving value to what has been done and giving value to what is being done and what will continue to be done. With regard to the other two points, that of the modification of Article 42.1 and an extended point of view that is added from the Catalonian emena Yes, it is Pot and the procedures and mechanisms to guarantee the fight against precariousness in the framework of the public contract, in the background everything was interlinked with a type of enterprise that, in a large part, is making the labor market very precarious. They are the names of multi-service enterprises and full-service enterprises. Here I think it's important that we give examples, because the people who listen to us – I don't know if much [[the timer riu]] or little – know a little bit about this reality. What do we find? We find ourselves with floor-rooms that are charging a 50_per_cent of what the sector's convenience marks, because, like the standard marque that ends up giving is more than the business deal, the situation is this. We find ourselves with moves and moves of warehouses that are charging a 45_per_cent less than their companies and companies, according to the convenience of the sector, working sixty hours a year. It's what we find ourselves in this reality, and it's a reality that we need to address. I think transactions that got better with the text. As Mr. Vidal put it, we cannot discriminate against a company for its object, we must look in which way we situate these realities. And in this sense, I believe that the remaining wording is positive and improves the original text. With regard to public procurement and how to do it, there was an idea – an idea that came from a CUP theme – that we think is very interesting: it's to say, we have an open question about public procurement, and on this question we have to get into this debate. And I think it's a very positive idea. Unfortunately – and here too I do a bit of self-criticism, because surely going at the last moment always ends, then, generating that you can't finish it – the type of writing will lead us not to vote for it. But I would also like to make it clear in this letter that the fund we share, and that we will work together because in the mark of this position we can place elements that guarantee the compliment of the working conditions in the mark of the public contract by the companies that present themselves. Finally, there has been a point..., it is a point that is very repeated, and that serves me to finish a little intervention, which is: ladies, we are frustrated, we are frustrated because much of what is being raised is a part that is not in our hands, is not in the hands of this Parliament. And what we want is for you to be in these hands, because we consider that we have objective conditions to have the strength to transform it. And in this sense I do..., to place them that the independents of the Junts for the Yes Group have asked me to say that, around the point about labor reform – they already know that there are visions a little different–, they do not directly vote for it, because they start to be tired of it, that they have already voted on various occasions and that what we are doing is a demand..., when we want to be able to manage our labor market and be able to control it, because we think – and we believe that in this Parliament we see – that we are in objective condition to be able to have a better labour market. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.83.0	Thank you very much, Congressman. Next, has the word Mr. Joan García, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, to fix his position.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.84.0	Yes; President, thank you. "Motion on the fight against unemployment and job insecurity, an ambitious title of a motion that sets out objectives that I suppose we all share. I believe that, however, you have tabled this motion for a much more specific political purpose, which I believe you may not have achieved in the end. In fact, by reviewing the question of the previous session, a couple of conclusions are drawn. The first, which you, Mr Gibert, dealt with in that inquiry, with issues such as the mismanagement of the youth guarantee or the ineffective management of the Government in the labour inspection, today at least here, we do not see it, in the motion or in the proposals. We see, yes, that you cook a dish of preheated measures – let me – which I will analyze later and which has certainly surprised us negatively; we expected something more from you, Mr Gibert. The second, who again advised her, instead of explaining what measures she was going to take to deal with a problem as serious as job insecurity, was dedicated, in the interpellation – as Mr. El Homrani has done today – to not assume responsibilities and again to say that the fault is the lack of competence to legislate a different labor framework. A reflection, only – a reflection –: you have had skills since 2010 in labour inspection, other communities do not have them; and you are unable to exercise the efficiency with which those other communities have managed to do so. Even so, they want us to believe that we must also leave labour law competences in their hands in order to make everything work better. For what? To approve a labor reform like the one that is now in effect, counsel? Or does it now turn out that you don't have any Convergence colleagues in your government? Mr. Gibert, we share the same vision of irrefutable evidence: precariousness exists. But for us precariousness is structural, unfortunately it is part of our productive model, and it is precisely the productive model that we have to modify: a model that has R & D at the heart of the business ecosystem, that generates opportunities for knowledge transfer and technology transfer, that turns into innovation and that increases our value chains. It is this increase in value that can be used, through socially responsible regulation, to combat job insecurity. In this respect, I believe we must make proposals in labour legislation. We have to do what we have to do to put an end to temporality. We must defend equal opportunities for all workers and equal rights by universalizing the indefinite contract, so that two persons performing the same work cannot have different rights through the contractual formula to which they have been forced to engage. But, of course, you, Mr Gibert, prefer to repeal, you prefer to abandon any hope and systematize precariousness, without a work model that you have given of what you have already shown that you know how to do the governments of the PSOE, how to approve labor reforms – like the one you also did in 2010 – that cut labour rights and perpetuate, in fact, the search for efficiency through the continuous reduction of labour costs, rather than doing so for the many other variables that end up affecting business competitiveness. Through labour cost competition we will never be able to compete with other countries. So do we see solutions in this motion to guide these changes? Not at all. You bring us an unstable and much better puzzle that consolidates your labor patch policy of recent years and that, in fact, expresses the will not to change anything from a system of party alternation that until recently worked quite well for you. They do not propose too much news, beyond some proposal that has already been discussed in Congress and that does not face the change of model for nothing, or for nothing, and that, therefore, leads us, at this point, to abstention. We do agree to denounce the precarious situation that exists in the outsourcing of some services through multi-service companies, but they should have worked a little more, in this case, the proposals they make, because they are at risk for their excessive generalisation. We will support actions aimed at combating youth insecurity, even if we miss the fact that actions are not specified. And finally, we will support your proposal for the government to comply with the resolutions of this Parliament, and it is curious that we have to ask this again and again. In short, Mr Gibert, a pre-cooked, heated motion that we sincerely did not want to amend for one reason: it is not our custom to participate in the drafting of the manifestos of 1 May which draw up other parties. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.85.0	Thank you, Mr. García. Next, the words of Mr. Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.86.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, we are addressing the Socialist motion on combating unemployment and job insecurity. And I must start my speech by making a preview, because today we have had breakfast with a sad news, from the point of view of the data released by the EPA regarding the destruction of employment in Catalonia: the unemployment in Catalonia rises by 18,200 people in the first quarter of this year. Therefore, we have 576,700 unemployed in Catalonia. Don't make me delve into political reasons, because there are the, there are them, huh? , and I say this because precisely this survey says that in Andalusia unemployment is reduced by more than 116,000 people and in Madrid by 95,300. Something's going on – something's going on. And, on the contrary, the survey speaks of the fact that in Spain as a whole the improvement of indefinite recruitment is an irrefutable fact. That is therefore the diagnosis of the situation, beyond political proclamations and statements with a clear partisan bias. Turning to the subject before us, which is the motion, of course, and in relation to what affects the impetus of social dialogue, the Government of Spain will always have that hand extended to improve, with employers and trade unions, measures that in some way affect the need to correct and combat job insecurity. However, do not ask us that from the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party we urge the Congress of Deputies to any concrete political action, because we respect the sovereignty of the Congress of Deputies, as it cannot be otherwise. I would also like here to place special emphasis on the trade union role, on the role of trade unions, and especially on the role of UGT and the Workers' Commissions, which, I must say, are doing it frankly wrong. Because its trade union role should, in the end, deepen the need to improve social dialogue, and yet the trade unions – and I obviously want to focus on UGT and Commissions – before yesterday demand from the Generalitat, in the field of public service as well, the respect of employees in the process of disconnection so that in Catalonia it is done with guarantees, negotiation, participation and transparency. Tricky, huh? That the Workers' and UGT Commissions are supporting the separatist process in Catalonia seems to me to be a trachea and shameful – and shameful. I would therefore really like to highlight what a bank exit is on the part of the trade unions. And, precisely on this point, I must also place particular emphasis on what is going on and on what concerns the motion on specific issues. Labour reform: the 2012 labour reform has been a success, internationally recognized; paradoxically, in Spain it is not. Make him look at it, because it's really pitiful. And I also say one thing: if Convergence, which supported it, now makes that strange game that Members vote separately, it seems fantastic to me, but they should change already..., they have changed from Convergence to PDECAT, they are in Junts pel Yes, but I think they must be already « probably separated by the no, because, of unity, nothing at all. Also change the name of your coalition. I also want, as I say, to emphasise that we are not in any way going to stigmatise the business world. Being an entrepreneur is not a crime. I repeat, being an entrepreneur is not a crime. And, therefore, the references to multi-service companies should not be specifically included in a motion which seeks to stigmatise them; it seems to us to be all wrong. And, yes, it does seem to us relevant that, in the area of compliance with the motions, this Parliament in Catalonia should give an example that, in the end, the government is fulfilling what Parliament says. One detail, to conclude: the reform of collective bargaining in the area of the 2012 Royal Decree had a specific purpose, and was to promote internal flexibility in companies as an alternative to the destruction of employment, inviting companies to fight and seek essentially their competitiveness. That, today, and in view of the figures we have known, is more necessary than ever. Therefore, instead of promoting labour reforms that can make the situation worse, I beg and urge you and advise you that what we do is to continue rowing in the same direction, and not to fight in favour of a labour reform that, as I say, has proved to be a real success. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.87.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. Then, in order to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Pol Gilbert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.88.0	Thank you, President. I will start by saying hello to the unions that are accompanying us today, which are very criticized by some of the political forces, but which make a vital force in this country – if not, we would not even be where we are, and see that it is a very painful place – and also the councilwoman, who has managed to arrive after the journey that today, let us say, occupies the lives of many people. I will start with the People's Party, which says: "The success of labour reform has been recognized internationally. Yeah, sure, don't kick her there; kick her here, the job reform. Ask the people of the street, what do you think of labor reform; you are not enchanted with life. I mean, it also seems very naive to me, to say it here, in your parliamentary office, when we all know what you think. I say, "You don't do partisan warfare. The labor reform was approved with his votes and the Convergence ones, all the rest were not for the work. So, if this isn't partyism, we can talk about it, too. And it's not a crime to be a businessman, obviously; it's not a crime, not much less. What's criminal is to exploit the workers on a job, that's actually criminal. So, too..., we differed from each other. Also, for the Ciutadans company, which have also made various, let's say, criticisms and observations about the motion... First, you have not read the previous motions that we presented. They tell us that there are no concrete measures. Listen, we ask that all the measures we have said before be completed, we are asking; if they are not completed... we will not propose any more, if we do not yet have them in force. Second, we have a May 1 manifesto. I'll send it to Congressman Garcia because he has no problem, and he has at least one problem, which will be that of the Socialist Party. And I remember, a short time ago, a Treball committee in which his contribution, his great contribution, was a motion for a resolution that said: "Continue applying the policies that the government is already making. Please, fellow citizens, don't come to give lessons that you don't do, because then there are many, many portraits. To the other parliamentary groups, as it cannot be in any other way..., to thank the work of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, of the deputy Vidal, in the elaboration of the papers, that they have improved the text, without any type of doubt; also the will of Junts for the Yes, to try also to incorporate, while sometimes hastily, better to the young man, and to give thanks to the compañeros of the CUP and other parliamentary groups, that they have had a very fluid relationship during this young man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.89.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gibert. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. Mr. Santamaría, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.90.0	Yes, Madam President, for Mr Gibert's remarks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.91.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.92.0	Thank you, President. Mr Gibert, I want, as far as possible and with all due respect, to illustrate to you with data that you may not know. But precisely the Government of France, under the mandate of a socialist government, which I believe are its co-religionaries, has made insistently statements in the line of literally copying the Spanish labour reform. Therefore, in the end, I believe that the right thing to do is to recognize objective facts, which undoubtedly go against what you have just expressed from the rostrum of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.93.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. Mr. The Homrani, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.94.0	For a separate vote on points 4 and 5a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.95.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.96.0	To request a separate vote on points 1, 6, 7 and 8, on the one hand, and points 2, 3, 4, 5, on the other, and 5a, on the other.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.97.0	You see, a separate vote has been requested on points 1, 6, 7 and 8, which have said that these 1, 6, 7, and 8 can be voted together. Inconvenient, in what are they voted together? [[Pause.]] Thereafter, a separate vote has also been requested, which can also be voted together, from points 2, 3, 4 and 5. Can these people vote together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, The first ones, yeah, huh? : 1, 6, 7 and 8, yes. The 2, 3, 4 and 5, no. Don't you? [[Pause.]] The 4th and the 5th, both separated, too. Okay? [[Pause.]] And 2, 3, 4 and 5, can they vote in some way grouped or not? [[Pause.]] No, no, All right, then. First of all, we'll vote points 1, 6, 7 and 8. The vote begins. Points 1, 6, 7 and 8 were approved by 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then, I'm told, points 2 and 3 can be voted together? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] So, we vote together on points 2 and 3. The vote begins. Points 2 and 3 were approved by 98 votes to 9, with 24 abstentions. Next... can you vote together, points 4 and 5? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, All right, then. Then we're going to vote number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 57 votes to 9, with 56 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 98 votes to 9, with 24 abstentions. Then we will vote, also separately, the 5a point. The vote begins. The 5a point was rejected by 37 votes to 94, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] The Movement on the Fight against Toughness and Precarity at Work was approved by 125 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.98.0	It's part of the session. Very late in the day, all of them. And a lot of congratulations to the Montserrats, which I should have said this morning and I'm fired, but right now, huh? There's only a few of them. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the management of waste]] [[302-00137/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on the management of waste presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. To expose it has the word "Mrs. Hortênsia Grau".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.99.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, today I think that with this post-interpellation motion we are moving forward looking for accomplices for..., on the line of a better model of residues that surpasses this model that we have had until now, based on recycling, with the previous law. I think a good job has been done, and from here I want to give the thanks especially to Congressman Marc Sanglas, of Juntes for the Yes; to Francisco, of Ciutadans; to Mr Terrades..., well, to all the Members who have made it possible..., to Sergi, who have made it possible for this young man to come forward. As there are only five minutes, I want to highlight those positive aspects that I think make us move forward. Well, from the start, I think the young lady... may be very distressed to say, but it did help to move things. Or, it's not random – or perhaps yes; I don't know, counselor – that on April 25th, therefore, the Agency of Residues summoned the aid..., that it was certainly already prepared, but, well, it has drawn the aid to improve projects of collection of organic fraction, help to do the whole issue of prevention and preparation of waste, to promote the circular economy..., 4,5_million euros. I'm sure they were preparing for it, well, but if the young lady served because this is a faster little thing, then we're happy. Also, I don't know, it may also be random, but there are many randomities, that just today in Barcelona we are presenting the study of sustainability on the introduction of a system of deposit, return and return, made for the UNESCO Chair..., well, for various prestigious universities, that, moreover, here we look at who the study is paid for, which went a lot in one line. That is why it is important that we here approve that, apart from the pressures on the one hand that there are interests, on the other hand that there are also interests, we can do this working group to decide – that is what we can agree on in the motion – if this system is implemented, if it is necessary to implement it, what benefits it has, what disadvantages. Also another thing I think is important is the compromise of this elaboration of the new Catalan law, above all based..., that goes towards the circular economy and low in carbon. I also think it's important to move forward with the agreement and consensus among all the groups that the important thing is the organic fraction and to be able to make this payment for generation; to be able to put the emphasis on the responsibility so much of the city, huh? – and here transparency, traceability... – as with the producer, the one who poses the residue in the market, and, therefore, work on the issue of the extended responsibility of the producer and in all these forms of environmental taxation that place the emphasis and develop this concept that the European Union also says, of the extended responsibility of the producer. And here are all the themes of net production, of ecodisseny, that do not only compete with their department, but here it will also be necessary to work with other departments of the government. It's also important..., super important to us, it's point 5, that here with the generosity of all groups we've been able to come to an agreement, huh? That's what I'm talking about. And here we have complicated debates, such as the debate on energetic incineration/revaluation, and here, well, the compromise that we have to open this debate and go trying..., to a scene where every time we carry less to incinerate, or so we reverse the terms, because we know that... We would like to close now, I would say the other day, just as we would like to close today the nuclears, but in this case today – today – is not possible. We need to make a path to close these plants or minimize the issue of incineration. And lastly, it's also important for us to have..., this creation of this group in which we can debate calmly and without pressure, we can debate this: on the current packaging system or on the deposit system, return and return. I think we've got it hanging on and that, well, it's a compromise that somehow this government already had, right? When he put in place the experience of Cadaqués, and what can be done here and that we will need, therefore, time, calm and all the studies; obviously, this one that has presented the UNESCO Chair, but of others that has done there. Also, here too..., glad that the whole issue of Vacamorta has been incorporated, well, because it's a problem, the subject of the Crulle Snacker. And lastly, a very brief explanation, President, and I finish: that we have incorporated item 5 of the CUP, which is added to a new point, while we will abstain from it, because we agree with the concept of not transferring residues between one territory and another, but we believe that this, the point that the CUP demanded, which was to ban it already, automatically, already today, we believe that today is not possible. We think we should go to this model in Precat, but as we have today the country divided territorially, we believe that doing so today is not possible. So we want it to be debated, but we will abstain. I explain why you don't think I'm going to accept a statement...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.100.0	Mrs. Grau...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.101.0	...and don't vote for it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.102.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.103.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.104.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word the Lord Sergi Saladié, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.105.0	All right, thank you, President. It is a young man, this one who presents Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, about the management of the residues, which, we could say, conceptually is well thought out, because it addresses a general issue or general character, as it is to make a new law of prevention and minimization of residues and, from here on, to focus and concrete from what the plan would be, in this case Precat, theoretically valid but not approved, but that is what the Government is using more or less to pull forward the policies of residues, as it should be managed. And from the conceptual point of view it would be well formulated, but it doesn't stay here, because at the same time, so continue to do some of the policies – which some are already doing – and, in any case, to focus a lot more on what some critical aspects are doing, such as the collection of the organic fraction, as it is to encourage a lot more door-to-door, etc. That is to say, let's go and find some goals by the end of the day, some goals, if necessary, long, but also day by day, in the yard, also going to make a series of actions that this young man sets up and back. Tanmateix, to us, as the CUP - Constituent Creed, we seemed opportune to try to influence this young man by providing him with a series of questions. I will not mention them all, but those that we consider most outstanding; basically, two. One is the object of the samarreta that I bring here, which is the Anti-Incineration Platform the Garrigues, Pla d'Urgell and Urgell, in relation to an issue that raises the prohibition of incineration – with the formula that is 'nveloped' to say: gasification or others – residue – or as they are commonly called: CDR or others – in purin treatment plants. I mean, it can't be that in order to solve a very difficult problem that we have with the country, one of the environmentally toughest, which is the contamination of aquifers caused by purins, we create another problem cremating garbage. Let's get this straight. It can't be that in order to solve a difficult problem we generate another very difficult problem, have-there other alternatives. First of all, this is a technology, that of gasification, which is not technologically contrasted. In our immediate geographic environment there is no gasification plant. On a global level, those who have put themselves on the march have had to finish closing or are, say, in the phase of closing, because they have not just worked. And, besides, we know that we have other alternatives to manage the management of these residues... to find a solution to these cluster residues. Obviously, we should talk about the rowing model, which is not the object of this motion, but in any case, to deal with this problem that we currently have other solutions. Moreover, this plant would contain residues that do not belong to the proper geographical environment, which connects with one of the points that we have planned to introduce, which is to prohibit the transfer of residues between areas of territorial planning, is to say, to avoid – with apologies – carrying the shit up and down. That's to say, every territory tends to manage its own crap, because, if not, it's very easy to put the crap behind the captiva..., the captiva of others, but in this case, isn't it? When we see a problem, it's when society is able to find a solution. While we don't see it, because the shit – I forgive – brings it to miles of distance, so this problem doesn't exist. But it does exist. The example we have in the case of Tivissa: an avocador in the Ribera d'Ebre that was designed to be cohabited between three coves– Ribera d'Ebre, Terra Alta, Priorat –, a avocador that has ended up collecting residues..., first only to be waste solids urban, has ended up collecting also industrial residues, not only from these three coves, but, we can say, from midja Catalunya. By the year 2015 we can say that almost half of all the household waste that ended up in the mouthpiece was done to the Tivissa's buffooner; almost 50_percent of all the solid urban waste in Catalonia that ended up in the mouthpiece was done to the buffooner of Tivissa. A breeder who had only been designed to be used for three regions, and there came dirt from the High Camp, the Anoia, the Lower Camp, the Lower Hebrew, the Lower Llobregat, the Lower Penedès, the Barcelones, the Barbera Basin, the Garrigues, the Montsià, the Pla d'Urgell, the Segarra, the Segura, the Tarragones and the Urgell. I mean, if we pull a line east-west to Catalonia, we have to mitja Catalunya, we can say, it's stuck in this mouthpiece. A mouthpiece that each time also incorporates more fraction than is neither separated, is to say, we do not know whether above industrial or urban solid waste, and that, moreover, according to the data facilitated by the Department of Environment, they are not territorially segregated either. This plant also had to be a plant that, when entering it, the residue had to be treated, it had to be fractioned, it had to be recovered, and that we have photos of the past year, published for the Directa, it is clearly seen how the trucks arrive and take the dirt directly to the abocador, and only a small one is packed forward, to make good, when there is to be some institutional visit. That's not the way to do things. In this sense, we also gather different desires or petitions that this week have brought different plataforms in relation to the fact that the fall in the selective collection in Catalonia is quite obvious; we are almost certainly in favour of our objectives in relation to the year 2015, and very far from what 2020 we have to settle down with the country, which is 50_per_cent. So, we've also added a message to ask for the removal of the Director of the Agency of Residues, so, so..., if this serves to stimulate these great tasks that we stay and these great reptiles that we stay with the country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.106.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.107.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, I think you're here today to the young lady who introduced us to Mrs. Hortênsia Grau there are two implicit debates, huh? One is the... And, in any case, I'm glad you could get to a deal on the subject that, from our point of view, is essential, huh? , which is the long and medium term debate, which is the reflection on the model that..., or the new model, or the best of the current model of management, which is what should be a new law of waste that goes into the new line of European waste policy, isn't it? , which is currently also under review. It's the debate about the circular economy, about the costs or the outflow of costs, about the fraction management model, huh? On these two essential points, we have reached an agreement, I believe that you should expand, in this chamber, to start this debate or to give a mandate to the Government as well because you lead this debate that you should bring to the conclusion of Precat 2020, this new law and this new model. But then there's another debate where we ask for separate votes from some of the points, because it's a more short-term debate, huh? , which has to do with some groups, parliamentary groups or some groups in the country, entities that compare different economic interests – because I think that's also good to be told – so ask some of the objectives or some model that defines Precat. And Precat 2020 generated or required significant consensus efforts between the Catalonian Residue Agency and the country's local world, as well as the country's environmental entities. And, as far as we're concerned, I think that putting the whole model into question would make a bad deal, from the point of view of the waste management. And, therefore, in these points that affect these issues we cannot give support, to the motion of Catalonia Yes it is Pot; in some cases we will vote against it, in some other cases we will abstain. We'll support door-to-door management that's standing here, not because we generalize the country's rundown system, because we think this is a question of what we're supposed to be doing to what local administrations say, huh? Because every city is every city and every town is every town. And I'd like some of the groups that enthusiastically defend the door-to-door gathering, that manage very significant and very important cities, therefore, to take over a serene district of Barcelona, for example, huh? Or the Prat de Llobregat, and they do the door-to-door, huh? , to analyze whether the system works or not. Because it's very easy to make speeches, but then they have to apply, these speeches. Nor will we support this short-term debate, because we believe that the hierarchy of the management model is being put into question, and the hierarchy of the European directives is being put into question. In fact, I've made the effort... because, a little, it contradicts what's going on in Europe. I will then pass this European Union report on how it manages Europe – from the point of view of the abocador, energy recovery, recycling, etc. And if we want to look like what's going on in Europe, then we'll have to start dealing with these debates that are raised – it's true – too, that of energy valorization on the one hand of the fraction of the residue, eh? What we can't do is go to trial and repeat bells, huh? Why, if not, would you explain to me how the Barcelona Assembly..., that I agree, eh? , I agree that the local administration begins to enter the energy management of the country, which is made public energy merchants. Now, we have to tell each other everything, huh? This commercializer, which I enthusiastically gather, from the city of Barcelona..., the generation of electricity is basically done through the energetic valorization of the plants of Sant Adrià del Besòs. Therefore, I will then ask you, President, separate votes, which will mark a little this position that I have defended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.108.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. The words of Mr. Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.109.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies. Well, first of all, with regard to the motion before us, whose owner is Catalunya Yes, she is Pot, and Mrs Grau in particular..., which, well, it tastes a little bad to me, because I've touched a little sensitive fiber, which we also have the PP's, although sometimes it doesn't seem... [[Rialles.]] I say this because... at last I hoped that when you mentioned all the Members who have worked on the text of the motion..., it is true that the two amendments that we have proposed – but we have worked on it – have been rejected. Perhaps that is why – that is why – you have removed me from the mention, but, well, beyond the anecdote – which I do not take into account, Mrs Grau – go ahead with the fact that we in some aspects of the motion and in the philosophy and in the spirit that permeates it are deeply in agreement. Go ahead that the issue of the circular economy and put an end to the linear economy, of which..., of the concepts, which we are also learning a lot in the presentation of the trade law, because it also has implications on it, or on the issue of the extended responsibility of the producer, are not an ecosocialist invention. In this connection, Mrs Grau will agree with me, because the Government of Spain in the year 11 already legislated on this issue: the adoption of Law 22/2011 of 28 July on contaminated waste and soil. And there are two concepts that are crucial to the issue before us, which are the concept of the circular economy and the concept, as I say, of the extended legal responsibility of the producer. That is even being the subject of profuse policy development. I mean a recent one, it is a _real decree of 21 January 2017, of the Ministry of the Presidency, in which, in relation to vehicles that reach the end of their useful life, it introduces concepts fully linked to what is the practical application of the circular economy, and how not, also of the extended responsibility of the producer. I must say that, with regard to the specific aspects of the motion, we will have a position, because, depending on the concepts that are being introduced..., for example, with regard to paragraph 1, we are in favour of a new project. On the other hand, I would like to emphasize, and without it being a precedent, Mr. Rull – I have followed carefully and, therefore, I have carefully read the interpellation of which you were the object, and, as I say, without it being a precedent – I make one of your concepts my own, don't I? : of the clear, unequivocal, roundabout bet for the circular economy; of cultural change; of the passing of a model of linear economy, which generates waste. Therefore, abandon the concept of residue and transform it into the concept of remedy. That assessment is therefore well-bred. The fact that we do not have to ideologize on these issues, not even the instruments. I therefore followed very closely the content of his inquiry and the answer. And I also take advantage of... – although, in the end, I bring it a little bit of roundabout –, which to see for when we have solved the issue of line 9 of the metro. That I think it's also something that..., as it's up to you and it's up to you and I've made this mention..., but it would be good that it's also about that, huh? , we would have satisfactory news soon. Other aspects that I am interested in highlighting from the motion: we cannot support, for example, in point 3, the introduction of..., or the reintroduction, rather, of the garbage rate. Catalonia has the fiscal system, the fiscal pressure, most suffocating in Europe. And this is good for people to know. Therefore, recovering figures that deepen in a suffocating fiscal pressure can never count on our support. On the other hand, with regard to more specific issues of the motion, which seem to us to be outstanding, and which is therefore worth putting on the table, we are not in favour – you know it, the position of our group – of systematically banning. This is more of the UPC than not of the People's Party. And, therefore, we are not going to vote in favour of taxonomic pronouncements which are toasts to the sun, which are not directly operational and which I also believe are based on a purely demagogic concept of the issue. And, therefore, there, of course, they will not be able to count on our support. And I also find it interesting that the fact that the management of the Catalan Waste Agency is being questioned in this case must be accompanied by a criticism of the work, the policy that the agency itself has been carrying out. But I understand that proposing, manu militari, the removal of the director, to me seems exaggerated. It is, almost, almost, pointing to a person with a finger that at best what he has to do is to coordinate properly, in this case, with the head of the department, and to be more effective, to deepen in these policies to which I refer. But, in no case – in no case –, as I say, dismiss it in a fulminant way. They won't find us at that point either. And, lastly, with regard to an addition of Citizens: is what the judicial decision establishes in relation to the mouthpiece of Vacamorta enforced? Of course. Judicial decisions are about to be implemented. Apply this philosophy to all areas of policy developed by this Parliament of Catalonia. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.110.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Sanglas, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.111.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, director of the Agency of Residus, in any case, the motion of the lady of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, of the lady Grau, gives a resort so wide that someone, including, supposes that barging or confining the circular economy, has ended up situating there the line 9 of the metro; that in any case, it is a rather ample but we seem that it does not correspond, at these times, to speak of the line 9 of the metro, that we have not spoken on other occasions. I look forward, for the time being, to thank you, Mrs Grau, for your willingness to deal, and so let's say, happy to have made contributions to this motion and some proposals..., or most of the proposals that this parliamentary group has put forward, have been accepted by Mrs Grau. It seems to us that this is the path. It's the way it's going every time it's law or it's working in these areas. There are areas that need to be a national consensus. There must be areas where there is as much agreement as possible between most parliamentary groups as possible; basically, because we are sufficient systems, we are sufficient models. And, therefore, the consensus must be very broad, not only among the parliamentary forces but also between the local world..., which will have to end by applying many of these policies that end up dictating from the government or from the parliament, and which, therefore, will also – and in another state, too – involve citizenship. In short, we are also talking, when we talk about the model of waste management, that we are changing, that we are proposing a model change. This also happens because citizenship is involved, too, in this cause. We understand... and we will give support... to a new law of residue prevention. I would like to tell you that we have supported most of these proposals – with a few nuances that you have collected from the points that you have accepted – basically because this is already foreseen. Many of these things are foreseen, such as Precat, which I would point out: the law on waste prevention is already planned for its application and, therefore, let us say it, articulated on principles of circular economy, of net production, of the producer's responsibility. A follow-up of questions, a follow-up of principles, which you provided in your initial proposal, which we collected because we had already worked on this line. Therefore, from this point of view, it seems that it is necessary, let us say, to reinforce the differential treatment of large generators. The door-to-door theme. At these times we have 140 municipalities where it is applicable – 50 municipalities, it is expected, by 2018. Therefore, it is a model to go, let's say, to the territory, with the involvement of all agents, starting from volunteering. And, therefore, let's say, from this point of view, too, bring and count with everyone. Other elements on which we have gone forward and which are significant... – because I also insist on the change in the population of the city – like the free delivery of bumps from the box, which there is a reduction of 50_per_cent since the year 2007 and in which there is also a reduction of 90_per_cent by the year 2020. This must help us in the foundation we are interested in and trying to collect the Precat that at these times is about to be approved. It is a matter of us advancing on the elements of the production of waste more than on its subsequent management, and therefore this is the model we defend. Let us also think – and that is why we also support it – in the field of environmental taxation. We think that we need to introduce – in fact, the government has introduced them – some changes in taxes in the environment. And, therefore, from this point of view, this Government is making those proposals. Nor is it about, let us say, that we over-mark the citizenry with taxes, but from this point of view, it does have to affect it. We understand that it is also necessary to accompany with pedagogy, but also with resources and with ways of doing things. We understand, I insist, that Precat focuses on these questions. And then there is a sequence of debates in which we have already proposed that we can make these items which you have accepted, the packaging debate. A debate that is above the table and that, therefore, we say, as a society we must choose for the best model that you allow us to work on the fund for prevention, I insist, and those mechanisms that can be applied. Not everyone will be able to apply everything and, therefore, from this point of view we also need to make a territorial differentiation in each area. And it seems to me that it will, at the moment, try to apply those policies in concrete terms. And then also the debate about incineration or valorization in our society of these residues at the level of European standards. Finally, we will also support the proposal on the closure of the vacamorta abocador in the hope of the judicial resolution to be issued, we hope that in short, and, in fact, for some time now it should have been dictated. And then let me tell you, Mrs. Grau, that we will not give support to the points that donate or censor the action of the Catalan Agency of Residus. First, because I explain it: everything that has been done, has been done during this time, during this mandate. Therefore, it seems to us that this action is taking place. Is it possible to make things better? Sure. But this also involves us all folds, starting with the Government of the Generality, but also at the joint administration. Therefore, from this point of view, we will not give any type of support to the proposals that go in this line. And I already take advantage of my last seconds of intervention to ask for a separate vote on point 5.e, point 6 and point 7. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.112.0	Thank you, Mr. Bloods. The words of Mr. Francisco Javier Domingo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.113.0	Thank you, President. As always, thanks to Congresswoman Hortênesia for her great bargaining ability, because it is a very broad and conscious issue that she has worked every time with all her winnings. Although in this issue of residue management we agree with the ultimate objective, practically all groups agree that, in this objective, we do not agree so much on how. I'll explain. There are some concepts that are now very fashionable to talk about, that it is very good to add 'there, that are the circular economy, reuse, selective collection, zero residue, etcetera. It is still within the three potentials of sustainability, which is also fashionable – environmental, social and economic sustainability – and practically the discourses of all groups can be equal. But we also agree, or almost all, that the current legislation is exhausted, that it is short, because it only regulates what to do with residues, not as we are dealing with these residues. The case is that if we continue to increase the generation of residues, we will continue with the same problem: that much as we improve selective collection, recycling, recovery, composting, we will never get as much as required by the European Union, but not at the level of demand that we ourselves as a society would want, because we will continue to think of residues as a final problem and not as parts of a chain. Now we are in need of thinking about prevention, and that is why we will collect the creation of the waste prevention law, so that we can address waste management not as a problem in itself, but as a product of a process of distribution, trade and consumption. And that's the residue prevention part, but it's also the resource-efficient part, and here we start to find discrepancies. That's why we're asking for a separate vote from some of the points. Conceptually, we understand that it is not necessary to climb the municipal independence at the time of telling each municipality how to collect its remains. A technical advice has to be made, a standard framework has to be created that has to be completed, but always without encroaching on the work done by the municipalities. We also understand that we can't rule out certain treatments, such as incineration for energetically revaluing this elimination, and much less discard it altogether, mainly because it's impossible to rule out incineration for energy production right now. Likewise, we understand that prioritizing and generalizing certain methods like door-to-door, so we don't see it clearly either. Maybe it's a mess. There are cases where door-to-door may not be interesting but it is the most adjunct, but there are a lot of situations where door-to-door, more than improving, which makes it worse, more expensive and less appropriate. With regard to recycling and return of packaging, more or less the same happens. So far the model is just production and recycling, and this coming back is a little bit of a stop, while the department's website does come as a method, but it's not applying. We understand it's the same thing. In each case, each type of envelope or situation may apply one method or another. Precisely now – the honourable Member has already commented – they were presenting, at twelve o'clock in the morning, the study of Pompeu Fabra and other entities, which is very interesting to take into account, and precisely for this reason our group will ask for the appearance of these people to the Environment Commission, because it is possible to debate and that all groups can listen to this report. We will also collect tax measures that promote net production, eco-dissension, marketing that facilitates residue prevention, recovery and reuse, and disincentives to use and remove it and from the short term. But it's good to have the details of what we can do to disagree because, at least, there's a _mark in which we all agree. And, lastly, thank you that you have introduced yourself, that you have been able to introduce the subject of the Vacamorta abocador. And more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.114.0	Thank you very much, Mr Dominguez. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.115.0	Thank you, President. Greetings to the director, Mr. Josep Tost, who I have not seen before – sorry. And I also apologize to Congressman Sergio Santamaría, who is true, he had also presented two papers; and I forgive, which I did not quote, but, go on, there is no reference, eh? He's been oblivious. Well, very quickly, because I think the will has already been made clear. And only one question... Mr. Terrades? [[Pause.]] Jordi, I didn't see you. Only one question to Mr Terrades: that, man, it turns out that we in the Barcelona Assembly are jointly ruling, and you know – you should know – that in the very contract that is preparing for the brush – that there has certainly been a complaint to Buildings and Contracts Development – the issue of being able to look at where the door can be made, if you can make a mosaic, in five barrels of Barcelona and, therefore, I do not know, we are not opposed in opposition, because, if not, we will end up here... I mean, you should know, what is being tried. What happens is that Barcelona does the door-to-door..., it is not the same to do it in Barcelona that it does it to a village of the Conca de Barberà. Therefore, it will be placed in the new departure of clauses that are preparing to bid. Also, on the subject of the incineration of this municipal enterprise, well, the enterprise of valorization, Tersa and such, of the incinerator of Sant Adrià, okay? It's that the issue here, what we want is to change the proportion. What cannot be is that it reaches 70 at the end of the canonship – incineration, avocament. If only a 30 comes up, we'll see what's up. Energy valuation and, above all, if all the pre-selection of this residue works well. And with this to tell you also the concern you have with Prat, which always has this concern. Mr Terrades, in the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona – which is you, is us, is Esquerra, is all – a document has been agreed on what should be the model, which is precisely in line with everything we've been approving in this young man, which I think backs the whole issue of door to door, the whole issue of expanded responsibility for production, the generation by payment, the systems that make traceable. Therefore, I think that, despite the reminders that we may have here, the important thing is that we are all in line – Generality, together, metropolitan area – to walk towards this goal that we want to achieve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.116.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.117.0	President, there are many votes on this motion. We've made them easy to read; I don't know if you're aware of them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.118.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.119.0	Just that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.120.0	Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.121.0	To say that it is likely that, given the plurality of votes, we must vote each point separately. You're likely, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.122.0	Now I'll explain the petitions I've had.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.123.0	Perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.124.0	Miri, we have had petitions to vote points 2, 2a and 2.b, which I think these may be able to vote together; 2, 2a and 2.b may be able to vote...? [[Pause.]] No, no, Well, then, it's 2, 2a, 2.b, 2.c, 5.a, 5.b, 5.d. Would 2.c, 5a, 5.b and 5.d be able to vote together? [[Pause.]] Neither do you. So, the 3, the 5th, the 6th, the 6th, the 6th, the 7th and the rest. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] "No what? [[Widow's remorse.]] "No what? That they can't vote together? They're separated? [[Pause.]] Yeah. Okay, I get it, I get it. Madam Bravo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.125.0	To review those we had separate votes, because... we would need: 2, 2a, 2.c, 3, 5.b, 5.d, 5.e, 6.a, 6.b and 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.126.0	Yes, yes, they all told them; but in any case, we all voted separately, because I can see that there is no way, as Mr Fernández said. So, anyway, if we look like we're going... we'll start by voting point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 83 votes in favour, against and 48 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 2.a. The vote begins. Point 2.a_has been approved by 83 votes to 50. Then we'll vote on point 2.b. The vote begins. The 2.b_point was approved by 107 votes in favour, against and 26 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 2.c. The vote begins. The 2.c_point was approved by 83 votes to 40, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 99 votes to 10, with 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 5.a. The vote begins. Point 5.a_has been approved by 117 votes to 16, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 5.b. The vote begins. Point 5.b_was approved by 84 votes to 40, with 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 5.d. The vote begins. Point 5.d_has been approved by 93 votes to 16, with 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 5. The vote begins. Point 5.e was rejected by 52 votes to 64, with 17 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 6.a. The vote begins. Point 6.a_has been rejected by 21 votes to 62, with 50 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 6.b. The vote begins. The 6.b_point was rejected by 21 votes to 102, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 7. The vote begins. Point 7_has been rejected by 10 votes in favour, 112 against and 11 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Residue Management Committee was approved by 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into investments in infrastructure]] [[302-00141/11]] The point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on investments in infrastructure, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose it has the word Mr. Alberto Villagrasa. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.127.0	Yes, President. Counselor, deputies... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.128.0	One moment, Mr. Villagrasa; I hope they're out. Please, they're quiet. [[Pause.]] When you're ready, Mr. Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.129.0	Yes, President. Councillor, Members, no one escapes that when the administrations are united and work in a coordinated way and side by side Catalonia is doing better. Soon it will be twenty-five years since the Olympic Games were held in Barcelona; a pride for all Catalans and the rest of Spanish; an event that changed and modernized not only Barcelona but a large part of the metropolitan area. And all this was thanks to the collaboration of all the administrations, starting with the Government of the State and ending with the City of Barcelona, despite the fact that the son of some honorable one tried to boycott the inauguration every time the Spanish anthem sounded. But it was a success thanks to the collaboration of all the administrations. Now we have two more examples. We therefore have that we are working together, government and city council, for the establishment of the European Medicines Agency in Barcelona, or we are working to make Sant Jordi an intangible heritage of UNESCO humanity. And the same has to happen with the infrastructure in Catalonia. The Government of Spain has announced a series of investments up to 2020; we all know what they are, it is scheduled, and a large part of them are aimed at improving the proximity in Catalonia, the rolling stock. It is therefore important that the Generalitat has a proactive attitude and that it facilitates and helps to implement and develop such investments. We can all ask for more investment, and surely we can even share some requests, but what is committed is to get it implemented, and that is why the Generalitat must have a positive and proactive attitude of collaboration with the Government of Spain. And that is part of the motion put forward by the People's Group. The other refers to the investments to be made by the Government of the Generalitat. And let's do it. One is that you must try to get 1.7 of the budget to spend on infrastructure investments, as it is or as with the national average. Here we are quite far away, barely reaches 1_per_cent, and make sure that in the motion we do not set any time limits, but we do try to make that will to reach 1,7 real and be a goal on the part of this government. And at the end of what it is about is to prioritize spending on the urgent and the necessary, not on capricious processes that in the end they do is to go straight to the abyss. That is why it is important for citizens to know the investments and priorities of this government. The Government of Spain has done so. Look, until 2020 there are these investments. They'll like it or not, but that's what there is. And everyone knows what they have to pay for. Catalans, regarding the Government of the Generalitat, we do not know this, and that is what we ask, that at least explain in 2017 and 2018 what the Generalitat is going to do or wants to invest in Catalonia. And in relation to this we could talk about fulfilling the non-compliances; of fulfilling the non-compliances especially on the Barcelona metro: metro stops that are not open, some that are not adapted... And speaking of compliances, then, Mr.Rull, you know that I will talk about the evil famous line 9, which is after all the great reference that you have as an infrastructure work, and therefore a failure and loss of credibility. And let's finally talk about the Barcelona tram. Some parties, joyfully, therefore, in electoral campaign talk of joining the tram through the Diagonal, which is really not a proposal that generates a special enthusiasm in the citizenship of Barcelona. Socialists know it: it cost them a lieutenant mayor and it was partly the fault of the mayor's loss. But not only that, but also crossing the tram through the city is to make a scar in the Diagonal, in the street Aragon and in Valencia, main roads of this city, and, obviously, is to create a circulatory chaos in the city. And so there's no mobility project, no mobility study that can handle it. But it is not just this, but it is that, if that were possible, before installing and performing this performance, we would have to improve the safety of the tram, a public service that has four accidents per month. Obviously, a public service that reaches the ends of the city, that does not pass through it, that has four accidents per month..., the truth is that, before trying to connect the tram through the Diagonal, what they have to do is improve the safety of that service, before trying to implement this project. In the end, these are the general lines of this motion for which we call for the positive vote of the groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.130.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. In order to defend the papers presented, Mr. Jordi Terrades of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.131.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... Mr. Villagrasa, today you introduced us to a young man who doesn't pass the elbow test, huh? If we make that announcement that they sometimes make on TV, it doesn't pass the test of the elbow. And it does not pass because four days ago President Rajoy came to Catalonia and announced to us a rain of millions of euros in investments, because he has a vice president who is also often for Catalonia, with an operation there, operation smiles, must be, of ease, but clearly, when the general assumptions of the State arrive, – three weeks, that they are present – it turns out that this makeup operation is going in horror, because once more the assumptions of the State respect the investments that must be made in Catalonia are disappointing – let me say in another way: the announcement of the president of the Government of the State that he made in Catalonia in a solemn way, therefore, from our point of view has been a peep, isn't it? – suppose the worst of the presuppostary continuisms of the People's Party, this time yes, with the recollection, seems, of Ciutadans. I read that the reversal was disappointing. Miri, 1,140_million euros announced in the State's general budget, a smaller amount than last year, and this is the operation what? That doesn't hold up any solvent speeches with respect to the announcements made, does it? And the economic activity in Catalonia – you know well – is of the most dynamic in the State, and at a time when the economy is fading – that no, not yet up to everyone, this best of the economy, that is obvious, but – what we have to do is to accompany Catalonia's businesses – the big, the small – and the best way to accompany it, yes or yes, it is invested in infrastructure, not just on roads and trains, eh? , in infrastructure with general character. It has to be done by the State and so does the Government of the Generality. And to Councilman Rull we have sometimes criticized him from our parliamentary group that the assumptions of the Generalitat do not accompany this improvement of the economic activity that is produced in Catalonia. But you here today have come to present a motion to say that the State is doing everything magnificently well in Catalonia. So, no; no, because the numbers, the one who supports the presuppost proves it, right? Actually, at the level of the whole Spanish state... it's not a special case in Catalonia. If we compare the investment in infrastructures to the whole of the State the decrease compared to 2016 is a 10,9_per_cent, almost an 11_per_cent less investment in infrastructures to the whole of the Spanish State, and this is also concrete in Catalonia. Miri, the evolution of the territorialized reversal since the year 2011 goes down. The year 2011 the inversion was 2,500 million euros, and 2017, this xifra that I gave it, 1,149_million euros. And if we do the mid-terms, the late Government of the State, the Socialist Government, from the year 2008 to 2011, 3,422_million euros in investment; the Government of the People's Party from 2011 to 2017, the mid-investments, 1,171_million euros. Then I'll pass this graph because I can compare it. And why am I talking to her about 2008? These are the ideas that my parliamentary group had presented to you, and that I already know that they have not accepted them, but I am talking about 2008 or I was referring to it until 2008, because we believe and continue to defend here that investments in infrastructure in Catalonia must be brought closer, huh? , must tend to the gross domestic product of Catalonia in reference to the gross domestic product of the Spanish State. And all these years it hasn't been much longer than this, to get to this middle point, this index, and the most reliable proof that this is what the general assumptions of the State of 2017 are, that they don't just stick to Catalonia's gross domestic product, nor do they just stick to what the people of Catalonia or the economy of Catalonia would be like, respecting the whole of the Spanish State. That's why I told him that the young man you're presenting here today, that he's a young man, let's put him in there, autobomb, try there, autobomb the state policy, he can't stand the elbow proof, because the numbers are the ones that are and the general premise of the state just three weeks ago that he presented himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.132.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.133.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Villagrasa, we're grateful that you've presented us with a five-point motion, basically because that's easier to work with, and not to fill it with others – among others, ourselves, eh? Clearly, the problem is that we're talking about infrastructure and we're just a few points, we have to be very, very, very selective and very discriminating, and then we tend to discriminate and select for political interests. Lícit, perfectly Lícit. We, too, have made the selection with ideological and political criteria from our perspective, which seems to be not coincidental, because they have not accepted any of us. You will understand, therefore, that it will be difficult for us to vote in favour, given that we are not being accepted. And frankly, I don't understand it, because in the sense of the requirement for the Government of the Generality to present, to presume, to execute its plan of infrastructures we would agree and we could have voted in favour of it, but, of course, this political requirement that we share must go hand in hand with the political requirement of complimenting the commitments by the Government of the State, because, if not, we are not just cheating on the lonely, but we can exercise a certain point of cynicism that is an excessive hair for which we are accustomed to being this Parliament. Because, of course, in the papers that we have presented to you we only ask the Government of the State the same as you always ask: that I complete the law and that I complete their commitments. And here we still have an organic law, which is called the Statute of Catalonia, which you must know, which is still in force, and which sets out commitments and generates investment expenses, especially in infrastructure, that the Government of the State has repeatedly gone through with the crowd, and that without these counter-performances it is difficult to hear with whom the party that supports this incomplicating Government of the Law can demand further compliments. Let's go for the pams. We agree that the Government of the Generality cooperates with the Government of Spain to make the investments committed for the Government of the State, which is what you are planting, but whenever there is no smoking and pure propaganda. And one way to prove it is the thought that we present them – it is also the one that gave, the proof of the quota, that gave here Mr. Terrades – that does nothing but ask to bring together the working group of the bilateral commission to assess everything that remained pending from the compliment of the additional third of the Statue, which has never been able to complete the cent_per_cent. You'll tell me, if we're not willing or willing to do that, what do we have to ask for you to work together? Apartment b, I, like I know letters, of course, surprised me a little bit: to me it seemed a little bit what they called '1,7_per_cent, because I made some numbers and went out more. I thought, "These people have become nimby ecologists, those who don't want infrastructure instead and... because, of course, with that percentage I think we're little. And, therefore, as my calculations may be wrong because soc de letres, we do try to be a little more serious and present a question where we ask that the two governments, the one of Catalonia and the one of the State..., therefore, that the investments fully complete Article 206 of the Statute of Catalonia, which has not been able to complete at all. I remind you that the article in question speaks of the mechanisms of participation in state taxes and the mechanisms of rise and solidarity between communities; article of which the Constitutional has only declared null and void a sentence – a sentence – of Article 206.3 but which perfectly follows in 206.5, which says that the State must ensure that the rise mechanisms do not alter Catalonia's position in the order of per capita returns between communities before the rise. If this has been completed, if this is complete, we could speak of a much higher percentage than you ask for infrastructures, because they could guarantee basic services with sufficiency and have money to do so. In point 4, I do not understand why they do not accept that, at the side of the action plan on stations that you claim to the Generality, that it would seem correct to us, there is also no understanding that there are commitments and timetables of investments that would correspond to the State, that it would also seem correct to us, I do not know if you did not; that they would correspond or that you would be willing to do the State, eh? , you can say it the way you say it. And in the last place, see, look, honestly, I think he's got the wrong space for debate. This is Parliament. I can understand that you are against the connection of the tram to the Diagonal, but this must be defended by the assembly. You have directors, don't you? So, let's get together. Or don't they believe in municipal autonomy? Or don't they think this is a decision that corresponds to the city of Barcelona and its representatives? I'm asking. Therefore, we have presented a point to him in the sole sense that we believe that this Parliament can position itself on this issue, that it is to ask the Government of the Generality to cooperate with the Barcelona Assembly in the decision that it can take on this issue and for the mechanisms that I consider it to take in the exercise of its municipal autonomy. Therefore, it is hard for me to say that we cannot vote for the points that you present, because I believe that they have nothing to do with resolving infrastructure issues, but with questioning the political position of their opponents, using the infrastructure to do so. And in this game, I'm sorry, but we're not going in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.134.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidal. Next is the word of Mrs Marina Bravo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.135.0	Thank you, President. The PP has presented us with a motion on infrastructure. And it seems to us about infrastructure that we need to talk a lot: about infrastructure in Spain, about infrastructure in Catalonia. We don't have bad infrastructure, in general, but we do have some significant shortcomings; some even cry out to heaven. And it is that it has not always been invested in the right way, it has not always been invested in the most necessary; even more: it has not always been invested in thinking about the real needs that we had to cover, or in the management that was to be done afterwards of those infrastructures that we were building. This has happened both in the works promoted by the Ministry of Development and in those promoted from the different autonomous communities. They all come to our heads a few times. The visibility of the infrastructures – they come out a lot in the newspapers – and also the territorial character they have – can be sold in a community or in a given municipality – play a lot against the planning of the infrastructures themselves and the common sense, because often the electoral criteria have gone beyond any other technical, socio-economic and above all of general interest, and this has done a lot of damage, more than it seems; it has caused the planned planning not to be carried out, because everyone wants to change the above, everyone wants to announce something new. Executing what I had planned without bidding anything new does not sell, it does not like, although ending what was going on was the most reasonable of all. This lack of rigour and responsibility has also led to the execution of works that have not been or have not been exploited. Do you know the air of Esparreguera? It is a cable car that for a time joined Esparreguera and Olesa de Montserrat; it was built just over ten years ago by the Generalitat of Catalonia, it was inaugurated to drum and platter, and shortly afterwards it was said that it was impossible to keep and closed, and it was changed by a bus. Well, things like this shouldn't happen again. This has happened in Catalonia, it has happened in Aragon and it has happened throughout Spain. Our obsession is to stop this inertia. That is why we have in our programme the creation of a national office for the evaluation of public investments through which all of them must pass; an office that allows unjustified or unreasonable investments to not be carried out, and to put into evidence..., that brings out among the others those who do not ask to ask, that they do not ask to win votes, but that they are asked because they are really needed and because they are the most useful and necessary, that they bring out among the others and that they are the ones that are carried out. That is why we do not believe in the war of figures proposed here, nor are we going to support the fact that it is 1.7_per_cent the percentage of expenditure devoted to infrastructure; perhaps at a certain point much more may be needed. We had tabled an amendment to this point, one in which we were talking about establishing an investment plan that went beyond the legislature and that met objective criteria of efficiency, profitability, constant evaluation and transparency, and had enough consensus to ensure that a change of government would not leave it behind. But it hasn't been accepted. Nor has we been accepted, inexplicably, the amendment to collaborate with the City Council of Barcelona in the search for that consensus that we all believe necessary. And the original text, the one they're proposing, we're not going to support it. Let the Government of the Generalitat ask the city council to stop everything it is doing, we will not support it, and less so when in the city council itself it has already been unanimously approved to set up a commission of study on which is the best alternative. Collaboration between administrations is essential, the object must be common, to meet the needs of citizens, and without loyalty between administrations it is really difficult to achieve this goal. Point 1, curiously, speaks of it; with the city council we do not want to collaborate, but we ask you to collaborate with the Government of Spain. Then they'll explain it to us. We also want the Generalitat to go hand in hand with the Government of Spain and vice versa. We know it's important, that point, because do you know how many informative studies have ended up in a drawer? How many informative studies have the Ministry of Development and our rulers started here and there have not been able to agree to move forward? We don't want that to happen again. And the groups that are not going to support this first point, although they have many reasons not to support everyone else, will tell us what they are going to do. If you are not going to cooperate with the Government of Spain, what are we going to do about it? We'd like to be explained. In infrastructure, as in so many other things, there is much to improve. We are already working here and we are working in Congress and we will continue to work on infrastructure, as in everything else, putting the center in the citizens. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.136.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bravo. Next, to fix his position, has the word "Mr Sergi Saladié", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.137.0	All right, thank you, President. It seems to me that we're going to liquidate quickly, this point. We understand that it's a propaganda youth, that we could call it alien shame, even so, because... well, you, shame, like they don't have it, so, come here, grab the promises of their master Rajoy, they convert it into a youth, but we could say that reality is implacable, and at the end of a few weeks they already leave it on the line, in this ridiculous anthology that we can say today they're doing with this young man, when the same assumptions are made, huh? , its assumptions, make absolutely unviable these multi-million dollar investment promises. Mirin, between the years 2009 and 2016, the different agreements between the state administrations and the Catalans provided for a reversal of 4,306_million euros, of which only 'nvan to execute 790, a 26_per_cent. So we're down to 3.516 million. So, less propaganda, pay what you owe, that we'll do it ourselves. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.138.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Saladié. Next is the words of Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.139.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, finally, we have a young man, actually, who when we got there we looked at her, right? To see what you're saying, but, of course, they've seen your question to the councilman, so... frankly, it was a publicity announcement, he's told all the rest of the groups. So, we share the diagnosis. I won't be here, will I? But it makes a little shame – it makes a little shame. You come to say: "Oh, listen, 4,200_millions, fantastic, such..., Rajoy, Welcome, Mister Marshall, a rain of fantastic millions..., that will not be rain, more quickly it will be even, because– and even so said the Chamber of Commerce –, year 2015, executed of what the State promised, 59_per_cent– 59_per_cent. Then you come to promise always, here, some great things that are never complete, right? The territorialized reversal? Not up to 10_per_cent, when we are 16_per_cent of the population, 19_per_cent of GDP. If we go in concrete to Adif, execution for the year 2015: 27_per_cent; January: 14_per_cent; Renfe: 5_per_cent; ports: 43_per_cent. That's what the Chamber of Commerce says, huh? Not me. Listen, don't take our hair this way – don't take our hair this way – because they get to a point a little embarrassing. And, of course, reading his transcript a little bit, right? , you do, in other words, different rhetorical questions, I believe, Mr. Villagrasa. Says: "Do we compare ourselves to any community? I said to the Councillor, "Do we compare ourselves to Madrid? Well, let's compare ourselves: execution in Catalonia, 59 per cent; execution in Madrid, 115 per cent – 115 per cent – more than it was supposed to be; execution in Castella – La Manxa, 136 per cent, when Catalonia is executed half of what is promised. So, if you want to compare, let's compare ourselves, if we don't have a problem. You also said: "Does it seem wrong for the Mediterranean Corridor to end in 2020? No, man, no. But you read some information. Do not fall into the mistake of Ciutadans, which Mr. Carrizosa came out to say that, until then, they had not spoken of the Mediterranean Corridor in this country, when, by the way, Ferrmed was registered in Brussels as a lobby for the Mediterranean Corridor before the Ciutadans party existed. But, well, it looks like they're starting, doesn't it? Once you do something. So, well, interesting: statement by Mr Arias Salgado, Minister of Development – you have to remember why he took over the year 96. And Mr. Salgado promised that the AVE would arrive in Castelló, and, therefore, the Mediterranean Corridor would not be enlarged, the year 2008. And that was promised on the 21st of February of the year 2000. Don't come with what we would say to you colloquially, Mr. Villagrasa, because you have the risk of making a fool of yourself. You talk. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , he also said: "Does it seem wrong for you to invest 850_million for roads? No, of course it doesn't look bad to us, if it looks good to us; but they don't invert. The connection between AP-7 and A-2 in Castellbisbal was promised the year 1994 and is still stalled, which is a shame. If we don't have a problem with what you promise, if they always do, if they've done it for decades, but they don't complete anything they say, anything, permanently, ever. And then you up there, then, with the rollovers, that's fantastic, isn't it? , because he says: "No, it seems bad to him that it is reversed. Well, then, let's look at it. 2008, the orbital line; what happened? Res. 2008, Pla de roulies, « duplicación de la net, línia Castelldefels-Cornellà ; what has happened? Res. « Access to the airport, how is it? The warmest, in the water. Montcada Tunnel, what happened? Res. Duplication of the Barcelona-Vic line, what happened? Res. From Arenys from the Sea to Blanes – all that, I'm not saying, huh? , said the Ministry of Development – what has happened? Res. "I'm promoting... all this – you see, huh? – With a member of the Spanish Government, I have not invented myself; it is not complaints, it is not complaints, it is what you have presented. « Promotion begins work for the construction of the new station in Sant Andreu Comtal. What happened? – that's what they said on November 23, 2009, huh? Res. Informational study of the Montcada-Vic duplication – September 19, 2008 –, 689_millions. What have they done? Res. « Promotion awards –« awards, ja, eh? , neither tender nor study– « rail access to the Port of Barcelona – April 3, 2008. What have they done? No, no, no, Then, of course, you... And this, look, I let myself go, because the festival season... is fantastic, huh? , news: « Promotion promises the AVE to Paris since the Sagrera in 2004, and at that time was no longer Arias Salgado, was Mr. Francisco Álvarez-Cascos, who said that from 2006 the trains would leave to Paris des de la Sagrera. How's it going? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So, look, Mr. Villagrassa, you have a hard problem, which is trying to lie, trying to make you see a reality that's not really what you're applying. But then whoever better denies them is his minister. Today, today's front. [[The orator shows a full chamber.]] In fact, you have two headlines, this cover, which is fine..., the subtitle says: "Mr. De la Serna assures that on the outside no one asks about the corruption of Spain. We have a strong country image – well, that's fine. You're messing with people, aren't you? Since the Albert Rivera said that "one more defendant and the agreement with the PP would be broken, they have not brought a hundred and eighty, of us to the PP, since the Albert Rivera said, but you have someone to do with it, but we will not do with it. According to the headline: « A single euro will not be drawn for other regions in favour of Catalonia. You come here to promise, and then you come to Spain to say that they will not invest another euro in Catalonia, because you, then, break their speech. So, we won't get mixed up, I think they have something to do with it, the lords of Ciutadans have been mixed up very well, with corruption and infrastructure, but we won't follow the game in their constant manipulation...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.140.0	Mr. Gomez of Moral...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.141.0	...and, therefore...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.142.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.143.0	... – I finish, President – we will vote against all of your motion for a resolution. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.144.0	Thank you. Mr. Alberto Villagrasa has the word to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.145.0	Yes, thank you, President. I am grateful for the amendments tabled by the Socialist groups, Ciutadans and Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, but we accept only three, from Citizens, because they help to complement the motion we were presenting. Mr. Terrades, the cotton test of hair removal was done by Mr. Zapatero, who came with a powerpoint, presented 4,000_millions of investment, saved the powerpoint and forgot about the investments promised. That's making a fool of yourself. Or, for example, the Vallirana variant: who has started it? , the People's Party government ; because the PSOE government put it in a drawer, and it was there for many years. Mr Vidal, 1.7 is the national average that invests each autonomous community in infrastructure, from its budget. I'm in letters too, but when one calculates it, it's that here we barely get to 1_per_cent, and we talk about 1.7 to try to get to that national average. And those who do not believe in municipal autonomy may be you, who are the ones who tried to present an amendment on the tram in the budgets of the Generalitat; it was you, not the People's Party. To the Lord of the CUP, little to say. What do you want me to say? If anything, those who have no shame are their puppies to do what they did in Montserrat, that is to show very little respect to those who do not think like you. And Junts for Yes. Here to Junts' representative for Yes, listen, look: he has read what has not been done, which can be true; read everything that has been done, read what, what he knows has been done, and much. Why were the works paralyzed in the festival? It wasn't the government's fault, and you know it. Why have port accesses not started? Because of the Barcelona City Council, and you know it. So I don't miss the truth either. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, if you want to ask me, you know? The president, if you give the floor, here... Well, I'm telling you, at the end of the day, there's 4,200_million investment, it's calendared. It may seem unlikely, but that's what there is, and help execute it. The previous budget has not been reduced at all. And when it is said that not one euro is taken away from other communities for not investing in Catalonia, it does not mean that it is taken away from Catalonia, but that much more is being invested in Catalonia than in the rest of the autonomous communities. And I'm finishing up. He was talking about the Mediterranean Corridor. Well, yes, Mediterranean Corridor. In the end, the first ones who talked about the Mediterranean Corridor were the People's Party, it's true. But the first to set it up was the People's Party. [[Widow's remorse.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.146.0	Thank you, Mr. Villagrasa. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. Madam Bravo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.147.0	To ask for a separate vote on points b and d.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.148.0	B and d. Can you vote together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] [[Long break.]] A separate vote has been requested on points b and d, which we will vote on together. So, we'll start by voting points b and d, and after the rest of the vote, okay? So... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? One moment – one moment – we hold the vote. Mr Carrizosa, your group has asked for a separate vote on points b and d.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.149.0	No, b y e; e de« Spain. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.150.0	All right. Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. [[the President-in-Office of the Council]] , b i e. So, let's go and vote on the points of "Spain. The vote begins. Points b and have been rejected by 10 votes in favour, 99 against and 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Investments in Infrastructure Movement was rejected by 34 votes in favour, 99 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into his actions in the province of Tarragona]] [[302-00139/11]] The item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on his actions in the province of Tarragona, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word Lord Matías Alonso. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Mr. Alonso, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.151.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, well, today we present this young man with a constructive spirit, in good standing. We must bear in mind, however, that many of our fellow citizens do not enjoy essential public services of poor quality, which do not enjoy the need for equal opportunities in relation to the medium of the citizens of Catalonia. On behalf of my parliamentary group, on behalf of Ciutadans, I would like to reiterate to the Government that we are not, in the context of the territorial demarcation, in the context of the province of Tarragona, on condition that we take a pit, I would like to reiterate that there is much to be done and that we must do it among all. It is the responsibility of the Government; it is also the opposition to promote government action because these essential questions have the necessary political response on the part of the public administrations, bearing in mind an essential principle of our democratic system, institutional loyalty. Because a healthy democracy, worthy of this name, requires that the different levels of public administration – local, autonomous and central – work coordinated from institutional loyalty, to the benefit of the general interest, to the benefit of the common citizens; in our case, from this Parliament, to the benefit of the general interest of the common citizens of Catalonia and, therefore, also to the benefit of the general interest of the citizens of Tarragon, some of whom, perhaps very, of course, feel discriminated against, feel disappointed on the part of their democratic representatives, on the part of the different public administrations. And it is our responsibility, of its representatives, to achieve among all that this perception has ceased to have any sense of motivation, that this perception of lack of equality does not have any sense of motivation in the inaction or mismanagement of the public administrations that conform to our democratic system. This is, in essence, what this young man claims is, that it's not a government program, that it's not all there is to it. It's nothing more than a parliamentary movement of impulses from government action to the benefit of citizens' joint interest. The government sees this young woman as a loser. Transversality, the fact of prioritizing certain issues, all of which are important, which are responsible for more than one councillor of the Government of the Generality, seems to bother them. Perhaps it is not a young man, let us say it is a standard, but it is a concrete man, with measures and very concrete actions, grouped into new axes, such as: socio-economic reactivation and fighting against the weather; transport and infrastructure; the Ebre River and the defence of the Delta; tourism, industry and energy; agriculture, industry, fisheries and the environment; health, education and social services; water policies, and finally, Tarraco, Roman capital. Of course, among all the proposals included in the motion, there is enough importance, enough need to merit the consideration of the Government of the Generality, even though it is only thinking of the general interest. For example, should priority be given to the reactivation and socio-economic development of Baix Penedès, a region that follows the province of Catalonia in occupation taxes? We and other groups of this room think so. What do you think of Junts for the Yes? Don't you? Is it not necessary to establish, together with the Council Promoter of the Strategic Business Pla and for the Occupation of the Lands of the Ebro, a plan of shock for the socioeconomic revival and to fight valiantly against the rock of the Atur in the Montsia, the Lower Ebro, the Ribera of the Ebro and the Upper Land? We and other groups of this room think so. Is it not possible to guarantee intermodality, in particular the interconnection between Euromed trains that stop at the village station and buses that go to Amposta, Tortosa and other towns? We and other groups of this room think so. What do you think of Junts for the Yes? Is that worth a no? And the defense of the Ebra and the Delta? Can we not guarantee within the maximum of two years the total decontamination of Flix's embassement? Can we not lead in the case of the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation the mobilization of sediments? A mobilization that is essential for the safety of the dams, for the maintenance of the river ecosystem and to ensure the provision of sediments to the Delta. Maybe here too Junts for the Yes are united in the no. Or perhaps it is not a priority for the Government of the Generality to actively engage in mediation and better resolution to maintain the maximum number of jobs of the ERO of termination of contracts that has presented the direction of the company Bic Graphic and that affects 136 workers of the Tarragona plant and thirty-three of the logistics center of Granada del Penedès, so that it is possible to extend the terms of information and the name of meetings to negotiate between the direction and the company committee. For us and for other groups of this chamber it is, and that is why we defended it in this place. Proposals in favour that they come to cover concrete requests from the citizens of the territorial demarcation of Tarragona, which to our opinion deserve the attention of the Government of the Generality, which today should be approved in this parliamentary process. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.152.0	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. In order to defend the papers presented, Mr Carles Castillo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.153.0	Too late for everyone. Indeed, Mr Alonso, we are in front of a young man who is not, let's say, a young man, I can even hear what he sees as a lost woman by some parliamentary group, but I will put all the hope you asked for, and I believe that, despite the fact that he can see, in this way, he is also an interesting young man to have a compendium, a list of important issues and that there are pending throughout the province of Tarragona, a range of issues that we must deal with and touch. But I can't help but say to him, too, that there are some fears, indeed, that they are touching in an interesting way and that they point well, some of them, but in honor of the truth, there are also very general types of things that don't come into being. There are fears that they are touching superficially too, and I think that it is a big deal: there is some topic that would be worth touching in a monographic way; there are fears that they require a depth of analysis, that I think they would deserve, for their complexity, therefore, a monographic dedication, as I say. And even there is some, finally, to cut and paste some proposal from some other group, above all some proposal that we made to the presumptions of the Generality, and some proposal that was not approved. I don't love them that she's usually a young lady that I find interesting, and I'm going to get into some of the concrete issues. We have submitted submissions that in most cases, either accepted or some other similar or similar expert statement has been accepted. In the first place, I will tell you that we agree, in general, on almost all the questions raised by the motion. One thing that we do not agree with the approach they are making, for example, with the Mediterranean Corridor, and it is that we do not agree with the soul, let us say it, the hope that they need to work together when a calendar has already been set up by the Government of the State which has repeatedly failed; that there is no longer a lack of courtesy but of cooperation and loyalty by the Ministry of Development, by Adif and Renfe to the city of Tarragona... We believe that what should be done is not to ask for collaboration but, in this case, to demand a credible calendar, with short-term, medium-term and long-term actions, right? , and a follow-up commission that could be formed by the two governments. As for the questions of toll freeways, we also agree. The only thing we want is to make it clear that one of the solutions, which points to the C-32, is one of the possible solutions and that there is more, and that we must continue to move forward with solutions that are more in line with, for example, the Calafell platform, with which we are in contact, which will come in close proximity to Parliament to explain it. On the subject of the Tramcamp, we also believe that there is a lack of ambition, and that we will put this constructive vision that gives it and we will vote for it as well. We will also support a proposal that has put forward from the Catalonian table Yes, it is Pot, that we believe it is very important, that it is the creation of the ATM of the Lands of the Ebre. We also hope that the Parliamentary Group Together for the Yes, formed for PDECAT and for the Republican Left gives support to a question as important for the territory as the ATM of the Ebre Lands. Yesterday, the young people of Esquerra Republicana asked, in the mark of an award that they gave to the platform Trains Dignes, a very deserved prize, but to see if they are made and not only words. I also congratulate them, for example, on the importance and quality of the themes regarding the Lands of the Hebrews. In general, we think they're very well treated. Tourism. An important issue to focus on in the first part is the issue of avoiding unfair competition from dealers of regular passenger transport lines. This is a subject that we believe is not facing bravery and that it seems that the Generality is not going to act before this reality that we all know perfectly. The topic of industry and energy. We see him as a little generic, but we'll give him support. And then we have..., well, he has also put on board the Catalonian table Yes, it is a task to place the question of Bic Graphic, that it is a company that is an industrial heritage of Tarragona – yesterday we visit the Parliament itself – and what we would call it is the total and absolute involvement of the Government of the Generality to try to avoid this ERO and if it is not possible to avoid, therefore, in any case the demand of the workers as much of Tarragona as of Granada is more transparency and more time to negotiate. As for the question of water, this question did say that we would vote against it because we think that it is not entirely clear and that in any case it would enable a transfer. And with the theme of Tarraco, Roman capital, we agree in general, but one point only at point b, we don't think you need a new Roman museum. Citizenship and its representatives believe that the new archeological museum should go to the Tabacalera. All the rest, we'll vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.154.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Castle. The word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group, goes on to say "Pot".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.155.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, I don't know if I have the word, because between Congressman Matías and Congressman Carles Castillo they have already explained [[the speaker laughs]] all the papers that we had presented to our group and that the group owners, in this case the deputy Matías Alonso, had well incorporated. You see, this young man is on the line of all the others who have been presenting territory. And, you see, it's not an issue that we like, but, well, taking advantage of what we do as a summary of all the territorial issues, so I thought it would be good to include some things that were concrete and topical and that were affecting our territories. For example, in the topic of the Strategic Business Pla and for the Occupation of the Lands of the Jews, which had collected the motion and which the URV is doing. Here it's super important to be able to make sure... that the government sits down with the board promoting the strategic and ultimately priority plan, of what the university says, what things to pull forward. This was already answered by Councilman Puig in 2014, who would do it. But, well, they've been doing some biodiversity stuff for now, but it's not moving forward. Also, super important the Tramcamp. And here, what do we say? Home, we know that the department is involved, but we would like you to have before you finish the legislature the Department of Territories, the Secretary of Mobility, so you teach us what you've done, these studies that you say you're doing. The issue of the ATM – the issue of the ATM they have commented on – why have we included it? Because it's a lawsuit, because the diluuns the heavyweight syndic, when he submitted the report on the state of the wheelhouses, he insisted again. Cal, go on T-Mobility, go on... let's say it another way, but let's keep the same conditions as they have the rest of the territories, because if not, the feeling of heaviness in the lands of the Jews, so it's always big and sometimes it's right. And I know that he's worked very hard with the Dignes Trains platform, and here... also another demand from the platform, which was the issue of intermodality, to manage to coordinate buses now with Euromeds stopping in the Village. Another, which we have incorporated and which we are not satisfied, is on the subject of the CRT, on the subject of the Recreation and Tourism Centre of Vila-seca and Salou, on the board of directors, because as there has been a delay here..., well, we would like to know how the issue is going, what happens with the three pre-selected companies; we are already late respect when the approval of the Board of Urban Directors was made. And we also want to know... clearly, there will now be a possible demand for ex-owners who in their day were expropriated; we know that there is movement with lawyers, because if there is a revaluation of these lands, some more valuable..., they are moving to see if they claim. If that's what the government takes into account. Well, a little something like this is, and this thing has also been incorporated into us. So is Bic's theme. See, here I think this point is important. Yesterday the workers of the company committee were here, both in the centre of Tarragona and in the logistics centre of Granada. Clearly, we think it's an ERO that can end up affecting 136 people, and that this company has benefited more. Therefore, here what we ask, as in other cases the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge, is the involvement of the Government, the department. Let us imagine that Secretary Aregio..., therefore, that he has involved himself, as he has done in other cases, to reach the best possible solution in the case. Because, of course, we're talking about 136 families and there are many families, at Camp Tarragona, who are already hit especially by the weather. Also a topic we wanted to add, because it is a topic that is pending and that has not just resolved's, and very concrete, is the topic of continuing complaints about the incompliments of the concession that was made to the ambulance service, to the UTE Egara. Here the UTE Egara-Lafuente... are complaining that there is an incompliment of the concession, that it is duplicated serveis. And here we want it to be reviewed, that it is reviewed to see the bases that were made competitions, if really these incompliments..., or what's going on, because right now they are threatening the workers and workers of this UTE with vagueness. Clearly, the vagaries of ambulances both at Camp Tarragona and at Terres de l'Ebre are not a minor issue, the issue of health transport. And I also wanted to incorporate it. And you're not anymore. With the will that, well, as much as possible..., tomorrow's separate vote and those points that they think are important [[the speaker laughs]] We can approve them to move forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.156.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Grau. Next, to fix his position, has the words of Mr.Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.157.0	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, today the rear of the lençol motions – said this with all respect – that the Ciutadans Group presented province by province. And these lençol motions, a sincere electoral program, which is indeed a sui generis instrument of parliamentarianism, have one aspect, in our view, positive and a..., I would not say categorically negating but as at least not so positive. The position is the province's claim as administration and territorial division. For various reasons, the first is that separatists only hear about provinces are nervous, this is already a joyous movement in themselves. [[Widow's remorse.]] But it is that the band – the band – turns out that one of the problems that has Spanish secular, and also Catalonia, is the lack of institutional stability, and having some administrations of 1833 is guarantee of stability in Spain, because it is not only a problem of the joint of Spain, it is also in Catalonia. Here in Catalonia, in the State of Sau, in the parliamentary debate that was done, everyone claimed the region, had to be the region. Now it's the old days, but no one knows exactly how many, every year here we add another. I mean, you don't really have the territorial model. In front of this gap, the province offers the state, security and unity of Spain, said next step, which is ultimately what we consider to be the most adigent. [[Some applause.]] Then, another aspect not so positive. These lençol motions, said with all due respect to Mr Alonso, which I have, and you know, personal, professional, always, present a certain lack of parliamentary quality, because only the lack of demand in the world. I mean, they ask for everything, and so it's hard to say no. We'll just say that not in a punch, that's 9.b. Indeed, Mr. Castillo has said, I think that they have not interpreted well what is the demand of the Tarragonan society respect the museum, that everyone wants you to go to Tabacalera, and, therefore, well, it is his opinion and we do not agree. And then, finally, I would like to reflect on a point, which is not that we do not agree, but I think it is not at all well focused, although, obviously, as it is written, we will vote in favour. He said: "To negotiate with the Government of Spain the liberation of the coast of dangerous goods. Look, this isn't something you need to convince anyone in Madrid. The big rail mistakes that have been made in Tarragona are mistakes that we have made in the same Tarragonas. And that's it. Miri, the year 2000 was an institutional, business, etcetera lobby, which was called the "Consorci del Camp de Tarragona", led by the mayors of Reus and Tarragona. The line of AVE that had to go from Madrid to Barcelona passing through Lleida did not have to stop at Perafort. He had to pass, with a payload, not stationed, for Cabra del Camp, in his initial project. The pressure of this lobby was to bring it as close as possible, which was in Perafort, because it couldn't get any closer. Certainly, and take the hemerotecs, discarding the Mediterranean Corridor, because they were in a hurry. And, therefore, this was a historical error. And now everyone is putting their hands on the head, but it was a mistake for the institutions of that time, the year 2000. The hard second was the year 2012. Mirin, the tripartite, without serving as a precedent, did a very positive thing, which was the partial territorial plan of the Camp de Tarragona, which was a document, we understand, impeccable. This document established that the goods, including the perilous, had to go through the rehabilitation of the Reus-Roda line and had to get out of the flats of Tarragona, which was the most normal. In fact, a few months later, in March 2011, at the Assembly of Tarragona, by unanimity, all political formations ratified the partial territorial plan of Camp Tarragona. So, well, without anyone knowing very well why, I imagine, the year 2012 is organizing another business lobby, institutional and some political formations – certainly, against the opinion of this humble server, you at that time did not say absolutely re – in the sense that you want a third wire, keeping the line of the coast, a third wire that has proved to be technically difficult, as at least – as at the very least. And that's the problem we've had. In the end, it was a strictly Tarragona decision, which ultimately perpetuated a situation that is absolutely illogical. And yet this is inexplicable: Tarragona would end up being the only city in the world that sends passengers out and goods in the interior. So, well, this was a decision of a tarragon lobby. Therefore, to negotiate with the Government of Spain to free the maritime front of Tarragona? Charms of life. But first we have to agree to the province of Tarragona. And I'm not talking about what we're voting for today, because here today everyone will vote that yes... the one after the Junts Group for Yes, Mr. Rull and Company, agreed with the lobby to which he referred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.158.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Next, has the word Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.159.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone; thank you, President. From Roquetes to vinc, from Roquetes to bass. Down the Pyrenees. But, well, as you already know, what is the usual practice of our parliamentary group, which is to claim that provincial, provincial and territorial deputies do not have to talk about their own territories... because we are here to make global policies for the country's immediate vicinity. I'll ask a lot of questions, huh? Today. The first one I see in my head is: lords of Ciutadans, do you do this to Congress, too? Anar province by province, there... in the Spanish State? 'Cause if they do that, they don't do another thing, huh? [[Some applause.]] First of all, a salutation, not to the people of the province of Tarragona, but to the people of Terres de l'Ebre, Camp de Tarragona, the vegueria of Penedès and beyond, also of the Valencia Country and the Strip. Catalan countries: this is what we demand. This is a provincial, autonomous young man, more than we've ever been used to, and a young man who insists once more on a territorial division that we don't share, that we've never integrated into our mindset and that we won't start doing it now. For us, there is no border between Alcanar and Vinaròs. There's never been, and there's never gonna be. And it's also a model of presenting motions in this Ple based on a centrality of the country, based on the ‘Barcelunya' model. I know, Mr. Alejandro, that you like it very much that I use this word. No, we don't think I have more of Barcelona than any other territory. I will not repeat myself with the arguments expressed by the Saladié and Benet Salellas companies in the other provincial motions that they present to us. But I'm going to go over this young man's structure briefly, because there are points that are interesting, aren't there? For example, primer, economic reactivation and fight against the weather. I don't know if we need to work more in Hebrew or Pirinaeus, or we can think of a global policy for both territories, because... Transport and infrastructure. The question is, where are you going, the Mediterranean Corridor? Is the Mediterranean just the troth of the province of Tarragona or do we think of the Catalan Countries? Are you going to Madrid or not going to Madrid? Or, how do we do it with the AP-7 and the AP-2? Don't they go to Ponent and spinnery? Or geography the fatal port, me? The airports. We only have Reus, or Alguaire, Girona and Seu d'Urgell and can we think of an airport policy across the country? I say the differences between Reus and Girona are not so many. Tourism. The Costa Daurada. It's fantastic, platja tourism. Or the inside, the Priorat. It's all right. But what is the difference between the mountains of Prades or the natural park of the Upper Pyrenees and Aran? Head-head. Industry and energy. This one's curious. And, well, along with everything you say, as if the area of Tarragona was the only one, we don't agree with any point, some point, something that has been accepted by other groups, and I refer to the ERO of Bic Graphic, of the company Bic Graphic; from here to greeting all the workers. We offer to work in a calm and calm way, and not to enter through the back door quickly, to try to find a solution to a conflict that is not resolved in a Ple of Parliament, but that is solved by talking to the workers, gentlemen. Agriculture and groceries. The fishing sector is also returning to this provincialism. It's all right, 'cause the waves of stackers, for example, aren't they? , just go to the port of Tarragona or the port of Cambrils, not to the port of Barcelona or to the rest of the ports of the Catalan Countries. They have nothing to see. I am relieved of the list of CAPs, hospitals, schools, which they have interestingly posed here. Water policies. It's also funny, because they make global proposals under an autonomous title. Why don't you present a motion on water policies, and then we'll talk about it, and we'll talk about it all over the country, not just for the Jews? Tarraco, Roman capital. Because Empúries, Badalona, Mataró, do not have archaeological remains of this time. It's just Tarragona. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, World Heritage. So I want the same heritage policy both for this UNESCO place and it's Tarragona as for the failures of the Pyrenees. The Hebrew riu and the defense of the delta. Many of the points are already approved. The only problem is that the Spanish State, as in the case of Flix, does not execute, does not do the job it has to do. Please – and I'm done, huh? – I stop making cards to the King, I stop dividing the country. His Catalonia is not the Catalonia we want in this Parliament, and our mental mark is already another. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.160.0	Thank you, Miss Boya. The words of Mrs Meritxell Roigé, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.161.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Rull... I do come from the coast of Roquetes, the city of the coast. And, therefore, I will begin by saying that this young man is responsible for a clear-cut knowledge of the territory. It speaks today of the province of Tarragona showing not only a lack of knowledge of the territory, but also a lack of understanding for this territory. The province of Tarragona is formed by different realities that respond to three different ages, as this Parliament has recognized and as the Councillor Munté exposed her at the end of Ple, to whom I take advantage to send a strong embrace. There are different territorial realities that deserve respect. We talk about the Camp of Tarragona, we talk about the Penedes and we talk about the Lands of the Ebre. Because they are different situations, different realities, and they need different treatment. But Ciutadans, and also for what I have seen the Socialist Party and the People's Party, remain stagnant in an archaic provincial model that doesn't bring us anywhere, that doesn't have any sense. I suppose that in the case of the motion you must come, this disenfranchisement..., the fact that it causes you not to have a governor in the Lands of the Jews, only to keep the Penedes, not to have a mayor in the Camp of Tarragona, not in the Lands of the Hebrews, not in the Penedes, not in the country, and to be the eighth force for what you do to the municipal elections between the entire demarcation of Tarragona. I suppose the disconnection has to come from here. So that's how hard it is to know what's going on in the territories. Still, it's not just about the title, we'll reject it. We will also reject them because this way of doing politics, these cards to the King, that's not the way we want to do politics. Clearer: the hospitals, the decontamination of Flix, the Roman Tarraco, the professional formation..., absolutely things that don't come by gang and what they do is to take, as they've already said, certain territories and, look, going to make a letter to the King, we go to make a lençol and see what's coming. Still, I've found some things missing that are probably just as important, or at least as important, as those that you write to the judge. The defense of the Hebrew riu. I found myself missing the complete ecologic. Where is the defense of the whole ecologist? Where's the defense that they don't cross the Ebre? Where are you? Clar, Ciutadans who does want this water of the Ebre vage provinces up, obviously; in this case yes. For those who say hello, we are only talking about the Joan XXIII Hospital. The greatest, yes, it is true, but there are also no others. And they're just talking about a CAP, the one from Cunit, the other CAP. I believe that the Hospital Verge de la Cinta, the Hospital Sant Joan de Reus, many CAPs in all regions, also have to tend some need. More unconsciousness. And we only need concerted places for the residences of great people of Batea, Amposta, Roda and one of Tarragona. The rest don't need anything. They've had to hear about some of these residences around here, and, come on, they'll stay at the station. In the end, what you should do is really look..., or know – another time more, disconnection – where are the waiting lists. Because seeing what they've written is obvious they don't know. Also, as in Jewry, I am mainly sorry that there is talk of negative things: decontamination of Flix, the cargoman poma, the black fly, and also speaks to us of the tiger mosquito, which is practically non-existent in the Lands of the Hebrews; also because we know it. So, I'm asking them to come and see... I invite them to come there. And, for example, there could have been more investment in promoting the biosphere's reserve brand. For example. I also found a lack of performance at the port. Neither do the names, the ports. Neither the port of Tarragona, nor the port of Cambrils, nor the port of Ràpita... And tell us to work with the Government of Spain to develop a comprehensive project for what it does in the corridor. Do not cooperate with us in any way. What we want is that we act once and for all and that we turn once and for all, and not, yet today, we have a single way between Tarragona and Vandellòs, with what we suppose, above all the regions of the Lands of the Ebro. And if we look at agriculture, it's still more spectacular here. Because they tell us in text that we are campaigning for the promotion of top quality products, and these campaigns must refer to « products of contrasted quality, such as now the blue fish, the leg of Tarragona, the jail of Cambrils, the muscles and the reds of the delta, the Miravet wax, the oil of Siurana and Montsant and the wines of Priorat, Terra Alta, Baix Penedès and Tarragona. [[Widow's remorse.]] Okay. And Reus' hazelnuts? And Valls' shoes, how do I feel around here? And the olives of Lower Ebra and Montsia? We got DO, too, down there, huh? I'm saying because, I don't know, I mean... And the potato of Prades. We also have DO Montsant, of vi, DO Conca de Barberà... I don't know, anyway... Ah! And we have some citrus trees that are spectacular, too, in Lower Hebrew and Montsia. And, therefore, it would be good if they were also named. [[Some applause.]] It's what happens when a list is made, that they get used to leaving a lot of things, and it makes us... well, that we see that it is, that... that it is a list that has no sense and that leads us to this young man who is, isn't it? , a lençol..., who have felt different things and have been putting them here. Therefore, our vote, of course, is a vote against. Here they also tell us that... they've accepted a message that says that this solves Bic's problems. Obviously, what we say is that the government is involved in keeping things going. There's something wrong with it. And, therefore, Lords of Citizens, that's not how they do things, so they won't find us. And what we're hoping for is that, like Madrid, they're bringing us a lot of millions into the territory, which we don't have to make. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.162.0	Thank you, Mrs. Roigé. Then, in order to pronounce himself on the papers, has the words of Mr. Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.163.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, let's face it, the toughest problem of this young man, who calls Mrs. Roigé, is precisely the title and this reference to the province of Tarragona, which I said a few days ago that she is neither more nor less than an administrative division, that she is the one we have and that she brings us more to this Parliament, because you are a Member for the province of Tarragona, even though you don't know it. [[Some applause.]] But, well, there's another division of this kind, like the Chamber of Tarragona, which doesn't seem to make them so much of us, because they preside over it, and so they find themselves much more liked. [[Some applause.]] In any case, this young man, I have said, does not make it all enough, nor does he claim it, and he has, for example, made a relationship when we talk about quality foods, the quality marks in agriculture. It is clear that this one, "as it is now, is not out of the question. This "as it now includes these, but we already know that there are many others, but it is not catalysed. And this, this proposal, this young man is an impulse to government action, even if it's a supplantation of government action. We're not government, we're opposition. What you do with this "no generalization" is, no more or less, want to give a buffet to the opposition in this Parliament, but with the face of the Tarragons. And that sounds to me like you're not too smart, are you? [[Greetings.]] In any case, please thank the contributions in the form of an emena, which you have also had the occasion to complete the catháleg by this way, girls on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of Catalonia Yes, it is possible, to tell them that, either directly or through transactions, they have practically collected all the questions; tell also to Mr Fernández, as to Mr Castillo, that we know the interest of the Assembly of Tarragona and the government team to carry what will be the future archeological museum..., or the future Roma museum to the Tabacalera. We don't believe in this, we think that Roma cultural heritage in Tarragona deserves a new plant museum, and therefore you see our proposal here. And, in any case, also, announce that, of all this, we will keep talking. We'll keep talking about it because it can't stay in the water, simply. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.164.0	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. Sir, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.165.0	Aclamations and to ask for a separate vote. For clarifications to Mrs Boya and Mrs Roigé, I didn't intend to fix Bic's complex with my dream, and just tell them that I haven't tried to fix it now, two weeks ago that I met with the business committee, and the only thing I asked for is that the government mediate, just as it mediated in other conflicts between entrepreneurs and workers. And to ask for a separate vote on points 6.b, 8.a, 5.b...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.166.0	5.b or d?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.167.0	... 6.b, 8.a, 5.b and 9.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.168.0	Can they vote together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.169.0	8.a, 5.b and 9.b. And the 6.b_sun.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.170.0	Mr. Castillo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.171.0	For acclaims and to ask for a separate vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.172.0	Well, let's say allusions. That's "clarifications," okay? [[Pause.]] Go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.173.0	Well, contradictions, it was. [[The timer laughs.]] Thank you, President. [[Widow's remorse.]] Tell Mrs Boya, who was talking about Bic Graphic, what we have to do is listen...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.174.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.175.0	... that with the theme of Bic Graphic what we have to do is listen to the workers and the workers, tell him that, precisely, it is the representation of the workers and the workers who have asked us to do this, that we present this theme in this sense to convey the needs that they have more information and more transparency. And, as for the separate vote, Madam President, of one band, the 2nd, and, of another, they can go together at point 8 and point 9.b, of "Barcelona". Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.176.0	The 9b will have to vote separately because we have already been asked to vote..., the Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot. For the time being, we have been asked to vote separately from point 2a, 1.8, 9.b, 8.a, 5.b, 6.b and 8. Right? [[Pause.]] Yeah. The Catalunya Group Yes, it is Pots has asked us for 6.b, 8.a, 5.b and 9.b. The Socialist Group has asked us for 2a, 1.8 and 9.b. And more than that, we'd been asked to go on the 8th. All of these. But I was looking now if anything was possible to vote together, and maybe the 8th... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] See, we'll start..., for now those who can vote together seem to be 8th and 5.b. Can these be voted together? [[Pause.]] 8th and 5.b. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Neither? Don't you? So we'll vote all of these separately, which are: the 2nd, the 5.b, the 6.b, the 8.a, the 9.b and the 8. We will vote for them separately and after the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, come on, let's get started. Let's go vote on point 2.a. The vote begins. Point 2.a_has been rejected by 45 votes to 71, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 5.b. The vote begins. Point 5.b_has been rejected by 50 votes to 71, with 11 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 6.b. The vote begins. The 6.b_point was rejected by 50 votes in favour, 82 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been rejected by 45 votes in favour, 87 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 8th. The vote begins. Point 8_has been rejected by 34 votes to 87, with 11 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 8.b– 8.b. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 8.b. Point 8.b was rejected by 45 votes in favour, 87 against and no abstentions. And then we'll vote on point 9.b. The vote begins. Point 9.b was rejected by 25 votes to 97, with 11 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Moció on the performances in the province of Tarragona has been rejected by 61 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstention. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into language and power]] [[302-0140/11]] The new item on the agenda is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on language and power, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Mireia Boya. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Please, just shut up and let's get started. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.177.0	Good. Good afternoon, Counselor. He will now greet the Director General of Linguistics Policy, because it seems to me that he could not see him, and he will already send him message of what happens in plenary, in today's motion. I'll make it up, first of all, to the Platform for the pheasant language that has hosted and helped us to finish the present motion. And so, fortunately, at the expense of Teresa Vallverdú, of Junts for Si, he was generous in the bereavement of the transactions that we had of hier. He objected to the dream of one: to put an end to this castle's victimism. Castelhan was not a minority language, but a minority language, I imagined that it was already a difference between the two. Catalan and Occitan are two minority languages in the leading country: judicial power, economic power, corporate power and oligarchical power. And we find that eth Govèrn can be much more than that there are current linguistic policies that place it in place. In the present context of justice, for example, we do not understand why, for example, it is letters that can aurian use Catalan eth in all its activities and ask for the processing of procedures in Catalan, aqueri..., workers of this Generality, do not understand why it is still not possible, if they are public workers or contracted by the Government of Catalonia. They find that two minority languages, ac he said adès, and i asked them to propose reasons such as to equate it was the score of Catalan and Occitan, which are two own official languages, it is two, in all it is competitions of supply of public places of this Administration. And here we want to mention what happened to those of Mossos d'Esquadra, where, from three years ago, Catalan and Occitan, two native languages, do not score the same, and we do not understand what happened in a public function and scare us contests of the Mossos. They're asking you to fix this situation. We therefore ask that the printed age be e-formulated by all the administrative transmissions, all the information petitions be able to guarantee the linguistic rights of the occitans. Now, uh, eth Govèrn dera Generalitat de Catalunya, was public administration not guaranteed the linguistic rights of occitans. And to the many transmissions we have in Catalan or in castelhan. We want you to ensure that, also, it was prayerful attention in the health field, and we also want you to control it is violations in that so now health care attention that I did not give directly to the Catalan Institute for Greeting. We have spoken of this Code of consumption; we want it to be the telephone attention of the multinationals to ensure that they are also in Catalan, that we do not impose eth castelhan and that we do not violate our linguistic rights. We are talking about labelling; we do not understand how we still have contracts for services, for products, for products, for products of this generality that do not guarantee a higher label in Catalan. We're talking about this one; we're asking for 50 percent doubling that you're talking about a European sentence. We want to stimulate tanben and bet on replacing original versions in Catalan and Occitan. We're talking about distribution plataforms, which appear to be minor, and they don't know how to use two of their own official languages. We are also talking about priority granting of subsidies to productions in Catalan and Occitan; we do not understand – we are saying this today – as in Premis Gaudí was the majority of workers are in Castilian, and many of those who are financed by only the public are in English – priority granting. We have already spoken of the Occitan toponymy, of the august revision that we have asked before that on TV3, for example, or in Catalonia Radio, james mes was French form followed was preferred after Aran, which continues to be Occitan form. This is the way, Tanben, to recognize this oppressed nation of France that I am Occitania. We ask for half a hour of television and radio. And so we have accepted that ship of Ciutan which remains as occitan as opting in the centers of secondment and that of Junts for Yes speaking of this CPNL, this institution that seeks to give it all was recognition and supreme eth. Arrange tanben to Ciutadans and ath PSC was his bona volontat ens beres ues of his transactions. E............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Visit the Valencian Countries, too. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.178.0	Thank you, Miss Boya. In order to defend the papers presented, Mr. Rafel Bruguera of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.179.0	Thank you, President. Honourable counselor, deputies and deputies... university students of Barcelona, welcome to this house. As I did in the People's Party motion on March 22, I want to start with two statements. First statement: the diversity and linguistic plurality of our country are a value to protect and enhance, and they are absolutely a problem. Second: we do not share, by mistake and unjust, the catastrophic and victimistic discourses of the two extremes; neither the Catalan is minority in Catalonia nor the castle is persecuted at our home. Now, that doesn't mean that there can't be – and, in fact, there isn't – cases of violations of the Catalan language rights. But concrete and punctual facts do not believe that it can be spent on a generalised value, nor can it be advanced and improved in the social use of català. In the world of justice and health care, for example, it is obvious that the margin of improvement is remarkable. We do not, therefore, share either the message that is deprecation of the inquiry and the subsequent motion of the People's Party, as well as part of the statements of the inquiry of the CUP. The motion, in turn, we value it much more positively than the inquiry, and even more so after reaching agreement and having improved, from our point of view, very substantially, the initial wording of the motion. Therefore, because we understood that the CUP motion was presented in a positive sense, in order to move forward, we also went to present, at one time, thirteen items, also with constructive hope, which we believe will improve and need much more their writing and content. We share with the UPC the criticism of the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization and the need to provide it with more resources, prestige and centrality, and that in being a cross-cutting policy it should move from the Department of Culture to the Presidency. In fact, our group has already raised this issue to the Committee on Culture with little success. We have submitted replacement documents for the expression 'occurrence for opportunity, orange to the Aran to be better accurate and faithful both to the State and to the Law of Linguistic Normalization. We filed a statement at 2.b. We don't just see how to interpret enable a group of specialists. If you're referring to having technicians translate from the castle to the catalau judicial documents, we think that this measure is of little use. Our concern, in change, proposes that in the field of justice the Pact for the Use of Languages, signed in its moment between the Generality and the conjunction of judicial operators, in the time of the progressive government and the left, is recovered and developed. The better the català to justice must continue to be resolute through the dialog, the formation, the gathering of judgments, etcetera; to enable it to oppose also from Catalonia, is to say, hard to finish a transversal pocket. For what it does to sanitation, we propose a task at point 6.b to place special emphasis on ensuring greater understanding on the part of the patient. For what he does to the Consumer Code we do not know, let us say with all frankness, a generalised policy – I repeat: generalised – of filing complaints. In any case, we would ask which proofs in tea, of this, to the UPC, and, in any case, to be shown to us. We also propose replacing point 7.c to urge the Government to take steps to facilitate the labelling of products in catalá, i.e., a positive element to continue moving forward and not imposing, which we believe is not the solution. And for what he does at the movies, we offer two shows. In the first place, urge the Government to amend the Law on Cinema in order to adapt it to the European Commission's judgment and to stimulate with concrete measures the subtitle in Catalan of original versions. And also the need – and Mrs Boya has said and we share it – to ensure that the existing versions in Catalan language are also distributed in the other media and distribution channels. And in this sense we cannot forget from the beginning the growing importance that each time more went on acquiring plataforms such as HBO or Netflix. These are, ladies and gentlemen, the papers, some of the most relevant papers that we have presented, and that, I repeat, they hoped to seek agreement and consent; proof of that is that, although not in all that we wanted, but we were able to agree, we were able to make transactions with the MP of the UPC, to which I would like to thank her for her predisposition to the dialog as always. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.180.0	Thank you, Mr. Bruguera. The words of Mrs. Sonia Sierra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.181.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies and students of the university, who accompany us today. The languages have two great enemies: those who want to ban them and those who want to impose them. For Citizens, all Spanish languages are part of our culture and make us a richer and more diverse country. And for this reason in our program we carry that any language can be studied in any autonomous community. And in the same way we think that the occidentality should be able to learn at any Catalan school. In fact, I have already presented it two times to this House without success. I introduced him again today as the theme, and I thank Mrs. Boya for accepting this theme. Languages are part of our cultural heritage, and this is a very important part of languages. But the languages, when they actually hear, are in use; it is to say, when we have them served by the speakers. And in Catalonia we have a lot of luck, we have the luck of having three languages. One of them, Spanish, is the one with the most speakers, because most Catalans have Spanish as their mother tongue. Mother tongue is a fundamental concept that serves the whole world, but Catalonia is a taboo. In fact, Mrs Rigau, here in her Parliament, said that the concept of mother tongue is unthinkable in Catalonia, even though it is a concept demanded by, for example, UNESCO and UNICEF. As I said, of the three languages, Spanish is the most spoken and, for this reason, the other two, the català and the occità, must have a greater protection; especially the occità, because it is the one that has less speaking and because, moreover, we already know that Spain treats linguistic diversity better than France. In Spain, the names "regional languages are co-official, unlike France, that the only official language is French. In this sense, we share the hope of this young man, who is to try to protect the languages with less talk in Catalonia. What we do not share is how these proposals are conveyed, which normally go towards sanctions, which is what we are absolutely against, because, as I said, one of the enemies of languages is what it wants to impose on them, and making an attractive language does not pass through fines and penalties. We have a legislature in Catalonia that has to be completed every time you don't get into collision with other regulations, but it's no surprise that the law tells the CUP that they're approximative, huh? , they complement them or they don't depend on whether they like them more or less. As I said before, the languages are in use, and all Catalans, whatever their language, must be able to express themselves freely and must also be able to be attached to the language they desire, and a large part of our papers were born in this line, but the UPC rejected them. That is to say, we consider that the printed matter must be in Catalan, Occidental and Spanish. And that the health system must be able to serve in català, occità and spanyol. But the CUP seems to want Spanish to disappear from Catalonia. And, in fact, they, on their own wheels, often don't answer in Spanish and now they're laying down if they ever answer in Spanish. It's hard for us to hear this position, because we estimate our three languages. That is why we are the only party in this Parliament that we have used català, occidad and espanyol. For us it is so our Maria Mercè Marçal as Eduardo Mendoza, that a few days ago he was awarded the Cervantes Prize; for us it is so our Mercè Rodoreda as Frederic Mistral, because we more to add than not to remain, we are closer to what unites us and not what divides us. For this reason, we will give support to points that are used to protect some languages, whenever they do not vacate at the expense of others or do not carry sanctions. Because the Catalans, as I said, are lucky to have three languages, and we want this to continue: to have three languages, and no one forbids us, but no one imposes on us any of these languages. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.182.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sierra. The words of Ms Teresa Vallverdú, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.183.0	Thank you, President. One long young man; one long man; one long man to the sector where the language is in worse condition: many problems than with the laws of a state we would not have; others, when we ask for actions that are already being done, perhaps not at the rate that everyone considers right, but that we will accept them because we agree. We also thank Congresswoman Mireia Boya very much for the attitude she has had with us in the negotiation. We agree on the importance of language as the cross-cutting element that affects all areas and, consequently, as the element that is present in government policies in aspects that are the competence of different departments. This cross-sectionality has more than one possibility of focus at the time of organizing how it is handled. One possibility is that they propose in their own motion: to consider that the Directorate-General for Linguistic Policy comes from the Department of Presidency and not from the Department of Culture; it had already been this way on some occasion. Another possibility, however, is that this general direction falls within the Department of Culture, as is the current case, and that language policy is coordinated from here, with the benefit that it is exercised with a cross-cutting character, because the promotion of the language in which the Government is committed involves all the departments of the Generality. In any case, we understand that this organizational issue is an option that is the exclusive competence of the Government and not a decision of the Parliament. That's why, so, we won't support the first point of your young lady. We agree that the scope of justice has a high degree of deficit in the presence of Catalan language, which we could consider to be even scandalous. This precarious situation responds to questions such as the disconnection of rights, inertia, the fact that it is not a request for entry into the judicial process, that the body of judges and prosecutors remains state and that there is a lot of mobility for you to function, that it is considered a merit and not a decisive condition. There was already a government agreement in 2013 because in the processes in which the Government, Administration of the Generality or entities of its public sector were part, it asked for processing in Catalan. In 2016 the Department of Justice also signed an agreement with the Council of the Catalan Advocate because the professionals of the turn of offices present in the writings in Catalan. But when the city exercises its right and asks the procedures in Catalan there must be guarantees that it is completed. And if the rights are vulnerable, it has to work. And if there is coercion in this or any other area, then the Language Guarantee Office has to act to pass them on to the corresponding bodies because, if that is the case, it is acting through the courts. For what it does to the Administration and the pes de l'occità in competitions providing public places, it is driving an expansion of the abst of appreciation of knowledge of the occità to all Catalonia. We've presented a piece of paper that's been traded. About the papers, okay, too. The most important ones have already been released. In the others, they work to translate them and incorporate them. In the area of sanitation, we also share the proposal to ensure oral and written attention in catal and occidental, printed and application of language requirements in the selection and provision of staff. And training actions to improve the language skills of health professionals. For what he does to the rights recognized for the Code of consumption, according to which people can also be treated in català in the telephone service of multinational companies offering their services to Catalonia. The castle here isn't in this problem either, and that's more than obvious. Right of rebre mandatory information in català labeling. Actions are being taken by the Catalan Consumer Agency to increase the presence of products labeled in català, which is another of the points with dramatic impairment. We have processed point 7.c because it deals with complaints to companies, follow-up and require them to comply with their legally provided obligations in the area of labelling. We have presented this item at point 7.d, for what it does to products, works and services, both those offered as those acquired, because it contains the mandatory information in the label, according to the Law of Language Policy and the Code of consumption. We also traded point 8.a, for which it refers to language at the cinema, because the situation is difficult and it needs to be remedied. On Catalan subsidies and productions, in Catalan or Occitan language, the IECC subsidy lines have it as valuation criteria. At 10, thank you for accepting the emena. Here the question is not the modification or not of the corporate style book. There's an official namer on TV3, and here he's working on this line. We are also in favour of a greater presence of the occident at public media, not oblivious that this calls for a certain option for what it does to resources. There is no organizational option, if there is no presuppositional increase. Occurrence in digital plataforms and private media also entails presuppositional availability, but the will is there. Occupancy chosen at secondary level. He is now offering himself through the Institut Obert de Catalunya, however, of agreement. And a point that we have added to focus on the Importance of the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization and the need to redefine the funding model and the role of locals. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.184.0	Thank you, Mrs. Vallverdú. Next, to fix his position, has the word Jessica Albiach, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.185.0	Thank you, President. Before anything else, I wanted to thank Congresswoman Mireia Boya for this young man. We've already commented to him that we wouldn't give him papers from our group because it seemed like a very good young lady, that she was complete and that she was brave, and that, therefore, we didn't have much more to add. I will only start with a given: the year 2012 the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia contemplated a game of 40_million_i_mig dedicated to the promotion of Catalan language, to more than the money that is dedicated to the promotion of the occupier. On the assumption of 2017 this figure fell in more than 3_million euros, and I say this because for a lot of voting in favour of this young man, which seems to us to be all necessary – we have already said this – without resources they will not be able to develop even the half of the things he proposes. We see that together for the Yes talk about state structures and recognize the language as a structure, which we share, but after the reality is that they talk about it, of very good will, but then they do not devote resources to it. Because even more, if you are aware that orange, occidental and catal are minority languages, we also need to be aware that this situation will only be reversed with public policies of use and language promotion in all spheres, and that is what means money. And that's why we couldn't agree more to the motion, which makes an appeal to all spheres, from justice, culture, health and consumption, and more, asks, which we consider very important, that the Directorate General for Linguistic Policy goes on to depend on Presidency and not on Culture, because all these policies must be cross-cutting, as has already been said. When the council of Santi Vila appeared to the Committee on Culture, we were able to ask him about actions to promote the use of the occident and the català, and also the good words, the truth is that he did not get us to concreteize it, and I want to talk about three concrete aspects. He recognized the need to positively discriminate some municipalities, where the use and knowledge of the catalá were very low, and he himself cited the Hospitallet, Santa Coloma, the metropolis of Tarragona, the Penedès, and even Figueres, but he did not talk about concrete actions. We don't know in what situation these supposed actions are found, we don't know whether this is happening or not. Another of the questions we asked him and he stayed in the area was about the presence of català at the cinema. His predecessor, Mr. Ferran Mascarell, defended a good-will agreement with the exhibitors because he felt that the agreement was more effective than the sanction, but we don't know about the results of this attempt. So now we're going to take new measures to promote, right? The promotion of català in cinema, but we don't have the data on how it's been working so far. And the last point I wanted to talk about was the Consortium of Linguistic Normalization, which – as it has already been mentioned – should be one of the highlights of the promotion and learning of Catalan, but which is in a situation of labor insecurity so difficult that it prevents its professionals from developing their pocket in depth. And without further ado, to say that we will vote in favour of the whole motion, which seems very necessary to us, but which call for resources and remember, as the Councillor for Culture said, that the premise of linguistic policy is strong, but it has been so timidly that we are not clear. [[the speaker laughs]] If we can get this young man out of the way that we think is good and necessary. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.186.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Next, the words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.187.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, I rise to argue the position of the Catalan People's Party respects a motion of the CUP which certainly has the name of telenovela: « Language and power. As long as you have forgotten about the castle, because this could be the title of a "Veneçolà culebrot": "Language and power or" Starry and power. [[Someone bites with the hands of the shield.]] Now that they've managed to get Mr. Nicolás Maduro to take a picture of the stellate, they could also ask him to pay pensions to the Venetian retirees who live here in Catalonia, they could ask him to leave the students to recover their money, and they could also ask him not to kill his people. [[Greetings.]] But, well, let's go to the motion that deals with the question of languages in different areas. They will allow us some general considerations because there are many points and they cannot be dealt with one by one. The catalá likes good health, it's good to say and it's good to know. We never had so much freedom and tools to express ourselves in Catalan, to relate to the Administration or to consume culture in this language. Honestly, I think that just a few confrontational speeches or some political decisions could put this good greeting at risk. With bans and bans, for example, a language is not attractive. In fact, Catalonia needs an agenda of freedom, which is the opposite of the current secessionist process that is guided by an identity obsession. The català needs less politics and less nationalism, because, in the background, the best approach to this issue is that of individual rights, the freedoms of people and the principle of linguistic availability of public administration. Therefore, the language situation is good, but we need to improve it. I what? Make it attractive, seductive, and this will not be achieved with any impositions, nor with prohibitions, nor with sanctions that make anyone suffer, but allow the citizens to follow the ones they choose freely with whose language they want to communicate. Show more pride and give more freedom is more effective than victimism, subsidy or fine. We agree with Councilman Santi Vila, who said in the question that he must flee from victimism, since he said: "Neither the Catalan language nor the Occitan suffer from any kind of persecution. So good the advisor's statements always have, so, this whole common sense and seny, because sometimes we're surprised... some strange things come out of it. Without going any further, last week, when the Government of Spain showed a strong support for the candidacy of the feast of St.Jordi to be declared the Immaterial Heritage of Humanity for UNESCO. The support of the Government of Spain for initiatives that promote Catalan culture should not cause these convulsions. Sometimes I think that some..., and I know that it's not their case, Mr. Counselor, but it is the case of some other counselors, even more so, who feel more hate for what Spain represents than love for Catalonia, and this leads them not to understand that diversity is a wealth and not a threat, it leads them to prefer conflict before collaboration, and this is a bad deal for Catalan society. In short, do I support català and occidentality? Of course it is, but not with the imposition of the right of people or the punishment of the castle, another of our languages. It would not be intelligent or good for the same català; for the way of confrontation no one will win. We all need to get an open society, a climate of respect for pluralism. Spanish is plural, but Catalonia is also plural. Sometimes it's about her as if you have one single will, one single interest, one single language, one single feeling, and that's what I think is a big mistake. It is obvious that the Catalan lives today with a language like the castle, that it has hundreds of millions of speakers in the world and with a huge cultural and economic power, and we believe that more than the confrontation between languages what we have to achieve is to take advantage of synergies that drive the Catalan, as was achieved, for example, with literature and the publishing world. In a Catalonia of nationalism they exlore with what some would want it would be impossible, for example, to repeat magnificent experiences with what was the literary boom. Finally – I see that I have a little time left – I will ask you, President, for a separate vote, and this is a complicated little bit..., to see, in three blocks: one block would be Articles 3, 4, 5, 6.b– of Barcelona –, 8.c– of Catalonia –, 11, 13 and 14; another block, point 1, 2.a, 6.c– of Catalonia –, 7, 8.a and 9, and it remains in a third block. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.188.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Milián. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word "Mireia Boya".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.189.0	Good. I started for you, Mr. Bruguera. Catalan Eth is not their minority, they are their minority. I'd appreciate it if we all understood that there was a difference between the two conects. The arrangement, all this, is that we recognize that, well, we have been presenting motions for such a long time before beginning in a constructive sense. Not all of these things are interpreted here today, but we're working so long now. Mrs Sierra: own language and language rights. Tongues of their own. Languages belonging to the national territory of Catalonia are two, which are Catalan and Occitan, called "Arane in Aran". And what we defend are the linguistic rights of all the inhabitants of Catalonia. Now, what we are deciding here is what we want our common language to be. You have decided that your common language is Spanish and you are imposing it on us; for we have the right to decide what our common language is. And yes, language rights of the Spanish speaking, Spanish speaking, but we could also of the Urdu or Romanian or Chinese, who have many more speakers than the Spanish speaking. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, here, in Catalonia, the inhabitants. Mrs. Vallverdú, let's be brave that we are heading towards the process in five months and that we will have to make many questions and we will have to make many debates around which is the common language, which are the first languages, as we want to structure this republic that we are building. And also what is the relationship, binational or not, between Catalonia and Aran. If we're not brave now, if they don't pose language policy as a cross-sectional, central vertebrate, as a matter of state..., « hostile, I don't know if they'll be able to do it later, because you did it when you were in the tripartite. So, maybe, in these voting separations that we so much like, because they do sketches like very cool, so we could think of being brave and bringing language policy back to the place that surrounds it, which is centrality to the government, and not winged in a Culture Council, which has neither enough resources nor enough power to make courageous policies. Mr. Milián, the infamous and faxist anthem that the founders of your party sang to the minister... at the funeral of Minister Utrera Molina last week is not in my language, it is in hers, the faxist, that of the franchise, the one who wanted to exterminate our... [[remorse of the voice]] The one who wanted to kill, to store, to silence and to bury the vorals of the reelers. They don't come to us with lessons because you only fly one, which is: one, big and free. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.190.0	Thank you, Miss Boya. The debate is over, we're calling for a vote. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.191.0	To ask for a separate vote. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.192.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.193.0	From points 1, 2.b, 3, 6, 7, 8.a, 8.b, 9 and 12, for a band. For another gang...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.194.0	One moment – one moment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.195.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.196.0	Can I go back to...? 1, 2.b, 3...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.197.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.198.0	1, 2.b, 3..., what else?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.199.0	6, 7, 8.a, 8.b, 9 and 12.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.200.0	The 12th...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.201.0	Yeah. Then, the 2nd and the 5th, which are able to vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.202.0	The 2nd and the...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.203.0	And the five.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.204.0	No, no, It seems like they can't vote for...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.205.0	Don't you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.206.0	... together, because they have also asked themselves various...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.207.0	All right, all right, all right, all right, all
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.208.0	...votes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.209.0	So, I'm telling you all, 2nd...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.210.0	And now we have to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.211.0	... 2nd and 5th. And then, the 4th... - or so on, we're all asking or what? – on 4, on 8.c, on 10, 11, 13 and 14. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.212.0	The 10 is also there. They've asked... [[Rafel Bruguera Battle asks to speak.]] If I say all those who have asked each other separately, that they may be there, and then, Mr. Bruguera, will you tell me? A separate vote has been requested on point number 1, point 2a, point 2.b, point 3, point 4, point 5, point 6.b, point 6.e, point 7, point 8.a, 8.b, 8.c... Be, of 9, of 10, of 11, of 13, of 12, of 6 and of 7. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let's get organized. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] Mr. Milián, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.213.0	For Mrs Boya's allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.214.0	Okay. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.215.0	Speaking of fascism, Mrs Boya, the UPC is the most violent party in Europe, but it's also one of the most cowardly. They are very brave to send their children to assault their democratic parties, like their People's Party, but they are very cowardly and run out of Parliament when they see victims of Maduro's rule. They are very brave to desecrate the Sea of God of Montserrat, but they would not do the same to a mosque. They are very violent – they are very violent – but they are also very cowardly. They're a farce. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-27-3402.216.0	Come on... if they want to, I'll call them back. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We go directly and vote them all separately. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, come on. We'll start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 34 votes to 70, with 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 2.a. The vote begins. Point 2.a_has been approved by 95 votes to 33, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote point number 2.b. The vote begins. The 2.b_point was approved by 95 votes in favour, against and 33 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 104 votes to 24, with 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 88 votes to 16, with 23 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 95 votes to 33. Then we'll vote point 6.b. The vote begins. Point 6.b_was approved by 104 votes in favour, against and 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 6.c. The vote begins. Point 6.c was approved by 94 votes to 9, with 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 7. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 95 votes to 9, with 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 8th. The vote begins. Point 8.a_has been approved by 94 votes to 9, with 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 8.b. The vote begins. Point 8.b was approved by 95 votes to 33. Then we'll vote on point 8.c. The vote begins. Point 8.c was approved by 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 9. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved by 79 votes to 9, with 40 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 10. The vote begins. Point 10_has been approved by 119 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 11. The vote begins. Point 11_has been approved by 127 votes in favour, 1 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point 12. The vote begins. Point 12_has been approved by 78 votes in favour, against and 47 abstentions... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I 49 abstentions, yes, he lost: 78 votes in favour, against and 49 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 13. The vote begins. Point 13_has been approved by 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 14. The vote begins. Point 14_has been approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Movement on Language and Power has been approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Thank you all very much. And the session goes up.
