ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.1.0	It's part of the session. [[Asking the Government about multilingualism and official languages]] [[300-00136/11]] Very good morning to all of you. The aim of the agenda is: to ask the Government about multilingualism and official languages; presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose her, does the word María José García Cuevas..., or l'Esperanza? [[Rialles. Pause.]] Says he's coming, huh? They're waiting for us to get here. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Good morning. [[Rialles.]] You've reached the point, Congresswoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.2.0	Well, thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago we were discussing the desirability of the education system improving the foreign language skills of our students through multilingual education that guarantees equity and equal opportunities, introducing foreign languages, even as vehicles. What makes no sense is that plurilingual education should be defended by excluding any official language; not because of a linguistic or academic issue, but because of an issue of individual rights. We have explained many times that Catalans have the right to study in Catalan, we have the right to study in Spanish, and also in Aranese, rights that are not satisfied only by studying the Catalan, Castilian or Aranian languages, and this is interpreted by the Constitutional Court in numerous judgments that we are not going to repeat now. This is our legal model, that of the linguistic conjunction, of the laws of standardization and linguistic policy of 83 and 98, the model endorsed by the Constitutional Court, also the model of the Statute and the LEC, where they coexist, as languages of teaching, in different proportions according to the linguistic environments, the official languages, all without exclusion. And this is the true Catalan school, l'école de tots, l'école legal, adjusted to the Constitution, and to the Statue; model that could change itself, but that today remains in force and that must be fulfilled. The linguistic immersion in Catalan, i.e. the exclusivity of Catalan as a language of instruction, is legal as a timely strategy, justified to reinforce the knowledge of Catalan in a given area, for a long time, and always as a voluntary option, but imposing the teaching of Catalan in all subjects, in all schools, to all pupils, is an illegal model. Not for a matter of languages, but for rights. And they will tell me that they do not impose it, that it is the centers that define their linguistic project, but let us not be fooled, because the Generalitat is responsible for the educational offer, and therefore imposes, allows or supports, as they prefer, this illegal system, which as a whole violates individual rights because it does not give an option. The system of universal, permanent and compulsory immersion is defended, because, they say, pupils finish compulsory education with a good level of Catalan and Spanish. And this statement must be opposed by three reasons of common sense. The first is that we cannot contrast this good level, because the only evidence of knowledge of Spanish, which is the official language that is excluded, is the evidence of basic competence of the Generalitat, which acts as judge and party. We cannot know, therefore, what level our students have in relation to the rest of Spain, as recklessly stated by the Generalitat, there is no common test. Nor do the old diagnostic assessments serve us, because each community passed its own test to the students who selected the community itself. And PISA does not serve us either, because in Catalonia PISA is spent in Catalan. The second reason is that bilingual systems are no worse than immersion to learn Spanish without damaging the knowledge of Catalan, on the contrary, and we have evidence that students in private multilingual centres get better levels, better scores, both in the tests of basic skills in Catalan and in Spanish, and in PISA, which, we say, measures competition in Catalan. And the third reason is that although universal, permanent and compulsory immersion in Catalan was the best system for learning Spanish and for learning Catalan, which we have already seen is not so, it cannot be imposed on a universal basis, on the basis of a legal question, of violation of individual rights. The important thing in all this is not languages, but people, their rights. When the Generalitat defends immersion in Catalan, because it reaches a good level of the two official languages, which is not so, besides lying, it is intoxicating the debate, because the issue is not languages, it is people, it is their rights. If people have the right to choose the language of schooling and to study in a model of linguistic conjunction, which is the model of the Language Policy Act of 98, the Generalitat cannot violate these rights by imposing a model of exclusivity of a language – of Catalan, in this case. In fact, the Generalitat did not impose immersion from the beginning, because it knew it could not. The strategy was progressive, with a policy of fait accompli. Course 83-84 began, under the law of normalization, by applying a program of linguistic immersion in nineteen schools in Santa Coloma; it gradually reached up to seven hundred immersion schools in the course 89-90, and finally, course 92-93 was universal and compulsory throughout the system, which ceased to be bilingual. The curious thing is that the students who had studied in the bilingual system – that is, before 92 – the Generalitat qualified them with the level C of Catalan. The validity of bilingualism was therefore recognized in order to achieve a satisfactory level of Catalan. In short, if what matters, as the Generalitat says, is the level of knowledge of languages, there is nothing to prevent teaching from being bilingual, not excluding Catalan, but not Spanish. But, as we say, it is not a question of languages, it is not an academic or pedagogical question, it is a question of individuals, of individual rights and, therefore, of democratic freedoms. We can accept living in an environment that limits our freedoms or not, and, of course, we lean towards the second option, and that is why we have been defending what we believe is common sense, also the general interest, but which is also what international bodies and our legal framework endorse. Let us start with UNESCO, which has always been in favour of linguistic rights in the field of education; but, I see, in favour of the rights of all, not of one another at the expense of another. In 2003, UNESCO published the document Education in a Multilingual World, where it presented three guidelines to member states to apply to education in the twenty-first century. First, mother tongue education as an element of quality and school success. Secondly, bi- or multi-lingual education as an element of equality and integration into bi- or multi-lingual societies. And third, the teaching of other languages, as an element of intercultural understanding and education. It is clear from what I have told you that UNESCO would not endorse the system of compulsory and exclusive immersion in Catalan, as a system of quality, success, equity and cohesion, as institutional propaganda repeats, because it is common sense that it is easier to study in your own language – at least part of the agenda – and it is common sense to apply equitable treatment to each and every official language, without excluding any, so as not to harm anyone. This is fair, this is cohesive, everyone faces the same difficulty and sees their language recognized. And this is reflected in our legality, which is consistent with UNESCO guidelines and also with common sense and the general interest. The question is: why did the Generalitat apply, from 92, an illegal educational model, which violates rights and freedoms and contrary to international guidelines? We see that there are no pedagogical reasons, because if the Generalitat were so convinced of the goodness of the immersion system it would give families freedom to choose this system so positive and ask for state evidence of Spanish to certify this supposed good level. However, the leaders themselves who impose immersion take their children to trilingual schools, denying others what they choose. Secondly, it does not seem that the ultimate aim of all this is to defend and primacy the Catalan language, because other systems are equally effective and do not generate the rejection generated by linguistic imposition. The truth, the reason for this universal imposition of exclusive immersion in Catalan for twenty-five years is..., rather it seems political. Immersion is and has been one of the tools of national construction – state structure, which would be said now – to differentiate the educational system and Catalan students, as much as possible, from the rest of Spain, to create a school of its own, different, incompatible and alien to the reality of the Spanish educational system. But the Generalitat, therefore, does not exclude only the Spanish because it is the common language with the rest of the Spaniards, but also fails to comply with the basic regulations and is invented and explains that in Catalonia it is enough to comply with the LEC. The consequences of this disloyal and disobedient attitude are suffered by the students, as we now see in the final high school test, which, if it is not suited to the official test – which is not the PAU 2017, which has been repealed for three years – Catalan students may not be admitted to universities outside Catalonia and perhaps also to Catalans. And this is what you have to invent is a reality that is neither legal nor official. The Catalan public school, run by the various governments of the Generalitat, has been doing politics for twenty-five years, concealing the reality, violating the Catalan, state and constitutional regulations; all at the service of a rupture: the cultural, sentimental and linguistic rupture with the rest of Spain. The effect of all this on today's field, plurilingual education and respect for official languages, is twofold. On the one hand, the education of those who, preferring intensive teaching in Catalan, would have an option to a richer, more open, more varied teaching, if the Castilian maintained a minimum presence, as the law says, of 25_per_cent. And we are sure that if giving a subject in English does not harm the knowledge of Catalan, it would not harm to give a subject in Spanish. On the other hand, the right of those who, legitimately and protected by legality and jurisprudence, want to choose their child to learn to read and write, first, in Catalan... – I'm sorry – first, in Spanish – we have already dealt with Catalan in the first point; first, in Spanish – introducing Catalan as well, and through a bilingual model. The question is, counsel, whether you understand that universal immersion cannot be imposed, that the legal model is the conjunction, and whether you are, or not, by guaranteeing the linguistic rights of all, or only of one part; whether this new multilingualism they say, of which they speak, excludes or not the Spanish as a vehicle language, and whether this will continue to be so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.3.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.4.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think you've made very big allegations, Congresswoman, against the Catalan school, here before. I'll try to make a debate as much as possible. Because here in fact a lot of debates about education, and it's positive; but I want to point out that you, and also the Ciutadans Group, which they talk more about, when they talk about education, it's language. And you say we don't worry about what's worrying about citizenship, but it turns out that you're worried about something that Catalonia doesn't care about, that it's the Catalan school. And they want to generate controversy at a point that has a great country consensus. And so much obsession in the end will lead me to think that I don't know if they really want a model of Catalan school, which has sunk big tapes. Even so, provocative, provocative, as the Spanish State has done at LOMCE, do not get caught. And the Spanish government has provoked as much as it has the entire educational community against it; not only the Catalan, but also the Spanish, which today has just called a wave against the law that you approved. And, listen to me, insulting the school insults our teachers. And to say that our academic political fans are not fair. Miri, you're obviously studying it as one of the foundational pillars of society, in the way it shapes and prepares students, future citizens. And all knowledge, as you know, is transmitted and constructed phonentally through language. And ours, the català, is an essential part, too, of our identity. And in this country, Catalonia, which is a land of step and a land of gathering, we have made of language not an instrument of division, not an instrument of drawing straight, but a tool of cohesion and coexistence. And school, therefore, has the right, not only to preserve it, but to give it as an inheritance to future generations as well as to the common heritage, and has the duty also to consolidate it and enrich it. The Catalan school has known very great adversities at the length of history, and has come, at last, to be banned. And in the model of school, yes, the Catalan as usual language is used to ensure that all students know equally the two official languages in Catalonia, and also the Orange in the Valley of Aran; otherwise, without this domain, what they would not have is the same right and the same academic and professional opportunities. And this majority presence of català in school only aims to compensate for the linguistic uses of our society in many areas in which the incorporation of català as the usual language is still minority. And the desire to preserve the country's own language and social cohesion has enabled us to overcome enormous social and demographic and socio-cultural changes that have taken the form of successive migrations, which in a short time have changed the physiognomy of this country. And the Catalan school has made a great effort on this; a great effort on humanity and material. And that's why we don't accept that you're making such a fierce criticism. And that's why he knows us so hard that he needs so much. That which you criticize so much, immersion, is an educational method. You keep saying that this is ideology, and it's not. Immersion is a pedagogical model of teaching with a linguistic objective, which is to acquire communicative competence in two languages. His proposal for bilingualism or trilingualism is based on a misconception: that if we learn català..., or the learning of català damages the castle, and that with equal percentages of time knowledge is the same. Listen to me, it's not about percentages, it's about learnings, and you're more obsessed with talking about hours than learnings. And they see – and this is important – that the student does not only have a school environment or is the only place where our students serve a language or many languages, but that the students have a family, social, media, friends, learn and use different languages. And in these areas – and only if I give a fall for our country – know that the dominant language is the castle. And we have the same interest as you in learning the castle very well, but we also have interest in learning the català. And what is quite certain is that we cannot treat two languages that do not have the same level of knowledge, nor the same level of media use, nor the same level of protection on the part of the State. And, look, if you're right to look at the language policy report... because you also wanted to talk about language policy in your proposal, in your question. If you look at the last language policy report of 2015, which is the most recent data, you will see that 40_percent of the people of Catalonia can't write Catalan and 20_per_cent can't talk. And, finally, if you look at the population in the ability chart to speak Catalan, we have municipalities in Catalonia where 50 percent of the population does not have the capacity to speak Catalan. And, listen, do you know what that means? That we need to strengthen immersion again just to guarantee the equality of the children of this town to know the català [[some applause]] because your parents don't have the ability to talk about it. And we're not talking about linguistic use, we're talking about knowledge. We have cities in our country where 50 percent of the population can't speak Catalan. And if you want to talk about uses. Miri, we have communities in Catalonia where 52_per_cent of the population uses the castle, before the 20_per_cent that it does in Catalan, or the 20_per_cent that alternates the Catalan and the castle. What I can guarantee you is that you won't have a right, a person, to sort if you want to speak in Catalan, in castle or in other languages if you don't master the Catalan. And in many parts of our country we have a lot of our citizens who can't sort out if they speak in català or castle because català doesn't know it. Therefore, we will continue to strengthen learning and continue to strengthen immersion. And, look, what we're doing is completing the law, even though you don't seem to feel it. We have the Law of Education. A law of education that in its article 10 says that the curricula must guarantee the full domain of the official languages, Catalan and Spanish, and from the Aran to the Aran, in finalizing the compulsory teaching. And we have an article 11 that says that català, as the vehicle language of Catalonia, is the language normally used as the vehicle and learning language. And we also have a law that says that students cannot be separated either in centres or in different class groups because of language. And, listen to me, this, you, who appealed the law to the Constitutional Court, this point was a point that you did not appeal. Therefore, this point is fully in force. And that's what we're doing, applying the law. We complete the law; the Catalan law, but also the Statute of Autonomy and the Spanish Constitution, because we have no sense against it. And, listen to me, families don't have the right to sort language, they have the right to sort school and they have the right to a teaching that guarantees them the full domain of the two languages; this is their great mistake. The people they have right is to be able to master the two languages. And that's exactly what the Catalan education system does. Immersion, whether you like it or not, which guarantees that all the students in Catalonia know the català and the castella. And without immersion and with the data I just gave him, I should be able to accept, as a minimum, that as the Catalan domain is not guaranteed, therefore, we would be bringing a right that has all students, that is learning the Catalan. And what's this model of school? So, miri, a model that goes beyond immersion, that bets for a model of competitive integrative plurilingualism that situates the català as the reference vehicle language and as the vertebrator of the learning. And, listen, the assurance of the learning of languages cannot be focused on an equitable distribution of the hours in which materials are shared, but on how these languages are learned. Because the challenge is in the methodological focus and in the organization of the content in the learning; that is, in the education model appropriate to each context to get the results we want. Therefore, it is about harmonising the system, not homogenising it, which is what you want to do. And with this, the goal of our system is to equip students with this linguistic competence in a consistent way and in the language of schooling, in català, also in castle and in many other languages as possible. Therefore, explain it well: you do not want people to have right to sort language, because this right does not exist. Perhaps what you want is that there is no knowledge of the català on the part of the entire population. As I imagine this is not what they want, what they should accept is that immersion is the model that allows our students, when they leave school, to learn Catalan and Castilian. And if not, look at the language policy report with the latest data and see how we have populations in Catalonia where 50_per_cent do not know and cannot speak in Catalan. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.5.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Té la parula la meñora María José García Cuevas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.6.0	Thank you, President. Look, counselor, you're the only ones talking about insults, we're talking about rights and freedoms. Since 2010 [[some applause]] , sentences are passed to the Generalitat for violation of linguistic rights in education; not one, it is that we have lost count of sentences. All the families who appealed have won, and those who have sought compensation for damages have obtained it. I don't know about you, but it seems very unfair to us that it is the families who have to face the Generalitat by pulling savings, when the Generalitat is fighting with everyone's money. How comfortable and cheap, huh? The Administration must act impartially, prioritizing the general interest and always in accordance with the law and law. The exact opposite of what various governments of the Generalitat have been doing for twenty-five years on this issue. And the sentences prove it. When you talk about the normalization of Catalan, do not forget that it is without excluding the Castilian, as the Constitutional decree of the Statute says, which also applies to the LEC. In this, you are false; I believe you know it. So, all of a sudden – all of a sudden, huh? – in 2013 they began to change the speech; suddenly, the system is multilingual, with the presence of Catalan, Spanish, English, French and German vehicles. Here is the document that you presented to us, on May 30, 2013, the then Councillor Rigau. And he says that 14_per_cent of primary schools and 10_per_cent of secondary schools teach non-linguistic subjects, partially or totally, in Spanish; surprising, especially if it were true. But the truth is that, from the People's Party, we spent nine months with written and oral questions in committee, trying to know which centers are, what subjects are, how many students are affected, what courses; look, to be able to inform the families who ask us. And there was no way to get the information: this is transparency. Mrs Rigau, already as a Member of Parliament, repeated this at the plenary session on 20 October 2016. Here is the session log: "The public teaching in Catalonia is multilingual, not monolingual, and it is taught to more than 60 percent of centres in different languages. If, suddenly, the system has changed and the immersion is no longer imposed on 60_percent of the centers, will you tell us what centers are these two_thousand..., 60, that, percent, what Mrs Rigau tells us? What languages are taught? Does anyone use Spanish as a vehicle? Why not go to these centres for families who apply for bilingual schooling? Why are families not allowed to choose center? No language: center, counselor. How many publicly funded centers are usually used by Spanish and Catalan, both of them, as a language of instruction? In all courses and in all stages of education? Is this reality reflected in the language projects of the centres? I'm afraid not. Will you publish the list of centers that use Spanish as a vehicle language? In what courses and subjects will we be able to find out? Look, the opacity is suspicious, because either these centers – that 14 and that 10_per_cent or this 60_per_cent – do not really apply linguistic conjunction – and you have included, for example, a school that once read a story in Spanish – or what you have is fear; fear that if you know which centers deliver subjects in Spanish, families ask them, abandoning the classical immersion centers in Catalan. And they'd have their reasons. PISA's latest results in Catalonia confirm what has become commonplace, which already in 2011 detected the Conseil de Treball, Economic i Social de Catalunya and what suggests common sense: that it is easier to have good educational results studying in your own language. Thus the Spanish speaking students also in this edition of PISA get lower results than their Catalan speaking colleagues in all subjects. It is unfair to impose a disability on only half the population by having it studied in another language against their will. Counselor, we are to defend individual rights, freedom of the family to choose what they believe is right for their children. And we defend – listen, counselor – the legitimacy of families who want their children to study preferably in Catalan, who want to avoid the maximum contact of their children with everything that sounds like Spain or Spanish, we respect it; it is legitimate, within the legality. What is not legitimate is to get it at the expense of others, because families who want – not all, those who want – that their children study in Spanish and Catalan have the right to be provided by the Administration with a sustained center with public funds to comply with it, without having to suffer to achieve it any economic or personal cost. It is their responsibility to ensure plural educational programming, which responds to requests that are not only fair and legitimate, but are also protected by fundamental rights. Well, Commissioner, are you prepared to review the linguistic offer by encouraging and guaranteeing genuine multilingualism, without exclusion, of the official languages? Are you willing to publish the list of schools, supported by public, multilingual funds? I would ask you to compromise, because neither transparency nor freedom should give us fear when acting for the general interest and under the protection of legality. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.7.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Next, there's the word "counsel." [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.8.0	Thank you, President. Madam Member, there is no greater right or freedom than all students in Catalonia learn, know and can freely decide whether to speak in Catalan or in castle or in the language they want. Why do you have to know? [[some applause]] That we have more than two-hundred languages in Catalonia. And if you read PISA well, PISA, when you talk about other languages, you're not talking about the castle; you're talking about more than two-hundred languages that are spoken in Catalonia. But, listen to me, explain it well: you who do not defend is the right to sort language; you who defend is the right to sort the name of the language hour that is fan. And the mare can't even sort out the hours of language or the hours of mathematics. As far as I'm concerned, the educational systems of the countries are neither valued nor trien depending on the hours, but on the results. And that's what we value in our country. And speaking of results, listen to me, I was accustomed to underscoring the evaluation of the Higher Evaluation Board of Catalonia; now I see that you even underscoring the evaluations made by the same ministry. Because, listen to me, the evidence that the 2009-2010 course was done shows that Catalonia is over the middle of the results in castle than the Spanish middle, and that it is over other monolingual communities, this report says. And, listen to me, if you say that the evidence from the ministry is not valid, go talk to the ministry; don't tell us, because we do believe in the evidence from the ministry. And what can't be is that when the results are unfavorable, then you say that the tests are not good; that's the same thing that he does here: Senior Evaluation Board doesn't prove good because they give good results. And now it turns out that the ministry doesn't do them either, because, of course, the evaluation is diagnostic and the generality sorts the centers. Obviously, as with PISA. And did you hear that PISA doesn't put it in question? So we don't question what the ministry does. And, look, also for his, I don't know, information– peace of mind no, I see it, but information yes [[some applause]] –: If we look at other autonomous communities in these trials, which were the last ones that the ministry did, you will see that communities that have two languages, such as Galicia, such as the Balearic Islands and such as the Basque Country, are largely aware of Catalonia's castle..., sorry, back there, huh? : they are enough under the middle of the knowledge of the castle that in Catalonia. What's that supposed to mean? That this model that you ask for, that is that it is tried freely, as it is done in these communities, results in these communities giving lower results. Therefore, as a minimum – as a minimum – with these data you should accept that our model in these tests is better than what you propose. The Catalan school has been a great element in this country, and you and City are the only ones who make an ideological linguistic confrontation with the fallacy of sorting these language hours. But fortunately, they're a minority. They're a small minority in this country. And in this we will have to tell you that in this they will find the great part of Catalan society and the great part and the great majority of this Parliament standing still. Because for many centuries we have suffered a great deal, as in society, with very harsh threats and prohibitions; the last loss is what LOMCE does in Catalan language. And, in change, the Catalan language and school, in this country, if one thing has been, has been cohesion, integration, social ascension and progress. And, therefore, we will not change it. Not only that, but we will continue to defend the Catalan school model and strengthen it to follow it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.9.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about their response to the problem of housing occupancy]] [[300-00137/11]] The next item is the question to the Government about its response to the problem of housing occupancy, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.10.0	Good morning, counselors. We have not spoken many times about the fact that the social and economic crisis that has affected and continues to affect many citizens of our country has made it extremely difficult for us to have access to housing, to decent housing. Today, in Catalonia, there are still people living in a situation of extreme difficulty, many families and people at risk of social exclusion, and therefore also of residential exclusion. The loss of the usual habitation, the denunciations, have resulted in a social drama that affects, has affected and continues to affect thousands of families every year, haven't they? And having a home is an indispensable condition for the lives of people, families, to maintain their dignity. In Catalonia, the number of launches was brutal; first, for mortgage payments; then, too, because a lot of people could not access a suitable logger on the housing market, on the free market, right? And precisely the social crisis that has affected us has led to the growing need to meet in a very strong way. The public housing park in Catalonia – also in the rest of the state – is short if we compare it with European media. We have rescued the funded entities with millions of euros, we have passed this problem over to the public debt and, above all, we have lost the historical opportunity to dispose of these real estate assets of the banks, of the funded entities, to dispose of more public habitat, to provide a decent home to people. If we look at the public register of empty habitats that we have in Catalonia, the fruit of one of the recent laws that we approved, which precisely, therefore, also records the fact of having empty floors..., that, by the way, they could record them a little more, right? , to encourage even more of these entities to submit them to the Administration to arrange for more action to put them on an eligible logger. Well, then, we have about forty thousand dwellings in the hands of great tenors that are empty. And the cessation to the public administrations, to the Government of the Generalitat in first instance, to some joints, therefore, is done with counters. So, the right to decent housing continues to be an unbreakable utopia for a large number of people and families, right? : those who saw that they were not able to pay the mortgages, those who saw that they were not able to pay a discount. And on top of that we find that, while the country's economic conditions are improving, which increase the number of contracts, it turns out that these contracts, these jobs, therefore, are precarious jobs, with low wages. So the problem is that we're still here. What happened? So, that many of our barrels, many of our cities..., not in a uniform way, because the crisis has affected more barrels than others of the cities, has caused habitations to be a daily reality with which we have to live together all the administrations, the Government of the Generality and the joints, probably because we do not have enough public housing, both the Generality and the joints, to deal with this problem. To many of our cities and barrels the occupations end or may end up generating conflicts to the communities of the veins, rather than distorting the housing awards to people through the months of emergence or, at last, housing that have been sold to entities in the third sector. I won't set them an example, because you, we all have them in our heads, right? We all live in a town or a city, and we know what kind of trouble we have in every place. We have a problem that can't or shouldn't become a social conflict, huh? Depending on how we approach it, this can end up generating a social conflict. The laws we have at present do not solve, from our point of view, satisfaction with the problems raised, which is certain that they are multiple and varied. Most of the people who have been forced to occupy a habitation, usually a bank..., after we talk – will not give us time in this first intervention, yes in the second – of the private people who have also seen each other..., or have seen how their habitation has sometimes been occupied. Most people who occupy a habitat are willing to pay for an affordable logger based on their economic capacity. After having applied for the government of the PP of the Law 24/2015, this Parliament, re, fa mesos, we approved a law that we said that in the term of one year, through its regulation, we would address how to regularize residential situations of people who occupy housing without an enabling title. Counselor, we believe that the gatherings have done a very important job, a huge job in this housing crisis that we have suffered. And at the time of regularizing this situation in which many barrels of our cities are found, we believe that the solution is not only to be left in the hands of the banks or the same government of the Generality, that they are the main actors of this problem, but that the assemblies also need to have an important role, because what is dealt with among all is to fight against inequalities. It is necessary to have a formula, from our point of view, which places, if possible, the point and end of the previous situation. I am aware that the production of publicly available housing is not tomorrow. Even though, he advised, in the 2017 assumptions, which I assume we will approve one day of these, we may have had more parties of assumptions to start producing habitat or to buy habitat so that we can make it available to the available policies. Well, as I said, the rules will have to be made. We believe that we should incorporate some things into this regulation, conditions for regularization. We believe that it would be hot or hot to believe the situation of risk of social exclusion, according to the parameters laid down in Law 24/2015; that it would be hot to establish a time of minimum residence and to be able to believe it– padró, let's have a relationship– ; that it would also be hot, to assess regularization, reports of social services respect the themes of coexistence and civics related to peaceful coexistence in that community; that the occupied habitat will be adjusted by type, accessibility, the type of family occupied. That is to say, what can be avoided in regularizations is over- or under-occupancy of habitats. We also believe that the representatives of the family unit likely to regulate their residential situation will agree to a compromise of submeter 'to the advice of the municipal social services, as well as to compliment the work plans that these plant. In which habitats do we believe that it would be possible to regularize occupations without title? To those properties that are transferred to the Administration that are owned by financial entities or large estates, eh? We believe that occupations without title in public heritage habitats cannot be regularized, among other things, because we stifle those people who in good faith... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, I told you that untitled occupations in those habitats that are public assets cannot be regularized. Why? Because there are people of good faith who come to the social services of the assemblies or to the same Catalan Agency of the Habitatage, point to the list, and sometimes see how there is no way to get into the circuit, right? And, therefore, all these questions we think I can address in the new regulation to try to donate output and parameterize the requirements to be able to regularize all these situations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.11.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.12.0	Thank you, Madam President. Councillors, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament... Thank you, Mr Terrades, for your inquiry, sure that you will allow us – in fact, allow us – to have a frank dialogue and work and put black on white, so the differences that are proposed in terms of housing – and, in concrete terms, what you are addressing me with, the problem of housing occupation – so we are concerned, we are concerned, we are concerned and therefore there is a solution. This is a complex issue – and so you pointed out in your intervention – that it is full of nuances – full of nuances that should be taken into account – that it is not white or black and that, therefore, we need to address it in this way. You set up a general framework, of course, "in which," he said, "the crisis has led to many people, who have impoverished them, who have made them out of their homes and who, therefore, in this sense we have found ourselves, therefore, with many people who claimed the right to a decent habitation. We have to work, and bravely, to be able to give this answer. It is certain that at these times the number of launches of people from their homes or families is diminishing. But it is also true that they are still there and, therefore, our work needs to be very important. Only a small acclaim: yes, among the launches, has grown that of the people who live from the lodge; but it has always been, this one, higher than that of the property, eh? The people who have been, therefore, dislocated from their homes... in those who live from the lodge have been higher than that of the property. So, what has this produced for us? It has produced us that we have situations of people asking for housing, but also, as you said, a large empty housing park that was not fulfilling its social function. And here's where we went, so we all folded in to find a solution. And I think that of the occupations – and you said it in a way – there are different types of occupations – to what we say about the matter, don't you? Occupation practiced for very vulnerable people before the situation of not having a home and who, therefore, have occupied a house or a piss, is alone, or with the help of a social platform. Secondly, there has also been, therefore, another type of occupation of immovables, which are people who before the situation of many empty floors, certainly, and a legal system per..., have found a system, so we could say "legal or " pseudolegal to enjoy housing free of charge, and therefore, in this case, there are only a few strictly in doing a job. There is another phenomenon, which is the phenomenon of illegal occupation, premeditated by mafias with a lucrative purpose. And that's already what's the absolute misrepresentation, isn't it? because it's the use and exploitation of the people who most require help, because when they switch from an economic benefit, they give them a piss that is not theirs and, therefore, xantatgen, so, a lot of people. The occupations, of course, should not exist; they should not exist, because we should be able, among all, to guarantee decent habitation to the people of the country. But while those who are a fan of need are, in a certain way, understandable, those who are a fan of how we live we do not have to admit them, and therefore in this sense we have to fight. How do we deal with this problem? So, the challenge is to increase the public housing park. You spoke, therefore, of the public housing register of the country. I believe that this was a good measure that the government took, from hand to hand, in its moment, from the secretary of Habitatge, Mr Carles Sala, from the government of President Arthur Mas, and, therefore, I believe that this was a good measure. Increasing the public housing park could also be done, so, through what we currently have, there has been a commitment to have 3,960 dwellings disposed of for the financial entities, and also for what is the purchase, on the part of the Government, of what is the figure of the aunt and retraction. Therefore, here we are increasing the public housing park. Actions in this sense have not been made, and I share – I will not entertain – a good part of your analysis that you do respect the world to finance. But I think a paradigmatic case that shows how things work is what happened to Salt, right? In Salt we had, you know, a complicated, complex occupation that was overtaken – nearly three years old that was in this situation – and that there was, therefore, the need to give it an answer. As the government... and, I also want to say, the assembly took its part, so we worked together. We're going to see that we're going to give an answer to this situation; an answer that we were going to have for one band to give out to the social emergence of the Salt bloc, and for another band to give answers to the housing needs of the Salt people, right? And, therefore, we asked the court that bore you, adjourned the denunciation. And the joint work allowed us to relocate the people who were in those habitats into us; not all of them, only twelve of them, because there were two who did not require habitatation on the part of the Administration. And so, in this sense, here's where there was this morning that I think it's good to clean up. There were fourteen occupations, but at the time of truth they were likely to have a habitat in them were twelve. This also allowed us to release a whole block so that we could do an operation, in the city of Salt, that gave out, I insist, to the people, therefore, that Salt require habitation. Therefore, what is certain and can be said is that those people who need to emerge, therefore, a habitation, the Government – also with the collaboration of the Joints – gives it an answer, and we give it so that it does not produce difficult situations. With regard to the occupations that are realized as a modus vivendi and as a consequence, certainly, as well as the mafias that I mentioned earlier, the solution is more complex and, as you know, therefore, we do not have all the tools and not all the competitions. Many of these illegal practices, therefore, cause problems of coexistence and security; you cited it, and that's it. And I have to say that these occupations also harm us directly, because they deal with public park habitats, as you mentioned, and therefore this leads us to other families that have a vulnerable situation, so, see that they go ahead, we could say, not those who have used the lives that are to be used, that are the months of emergence, that are the social services, etc., but they do it in a way, so, not right, we could say, right? Therefore, in this sense, escort'm, the Generalitat has at these moments 322 public dwellings, yes, occupied. And what do we have in this sense to deal with this situation that you mentioned? First of all, working together; this is a necessity and, therefore, we must do so. And there have been initiatives here that you know – I won't be entertained – like that of the Salt County Council, which has taken concrete and courageous action, or as has the Mataró Assembly, has it not? , which in this sense, therefore, has done a concrete and courageous action. But the law – we must say clearly – is not prepared to avoid situations of illegal occupation. This is a competence, as you know, exclusively state, and, therefore, escapes the current mark of action of the Government of Catalonia. I understand..., I wanted to review it because I knew that there was an initiative in the Congress of Deputies that I had been ported for so as to bring forward, therefore, a solution in this area, pushed in his day for the Collegiate Counsel, ported to Parliament for the PDECAT, and I did not know if there were any others. At these times there are no others, but I am aware that this initiative speaks, therefore, of the performance in front of occupied dwellings for people who do not own it. And so, in this sense, there is an act that I think the Congress of Deputies will have to look at because it gives solutions. The law, however, Law 4/2016, is certain that it gives us elements to work and, therefore, to give answer. And here we have to take it and, as the government, you know that we are developing it, this law, in a very quick way, that we have already done, so... we have constituted the different networks throughout the country, that we have also given training to more than a thousand people from the local world so that they can face it. And one of the key elements that you mentioned, and I don't want to leave these first two minutes without mentioning it, is the rule issue. A rule that there is a compromise, because that is how the law establishes it, that must be done in a year, and that, therefore, the government has the firm commitment, to do it. You were quoting one of the elements..., some of the elements that you think should be taken into account at the time of developing this rule, and I'm sure that now, in this second part, we can keep talking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. The word has Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.14.0	Madam Counselor, you have three fears that I want to touch in these five minutes. One, for which it makes the empty habitats of the financial entities. We are of the parent – we already defended it when the law was discussed in this sense, but we stayed short, from our point of view –..., we have to increase taxation on the empty floors of legal persons. We will continue to defend this position. And I said it – you also mentioned it – that not all the occupations that are produced and that have occurred in the country are of good faith, that is, of those people who have a problem. We all know that a lot of housing has been occupied by people who have taken advantage of the legal voids of the system, who do not come from the process of denunciation for mortgage payments or to lodge in the free market. They work to enjoy a habitat free of charge and, often, without respect for the community they live in. And that's generating us, many barrels of our cities, problems. And not all occupations are produced in empty habitats of funded entities. There are also many cases of housing occupied by normal people, without assets, who find themselves defenceless before this situation. I believe that the whole Parliament is aware that mob groups have begun to emerge, let's say so, that they are dedicated to bursting doors, simulating fictitious contracts and charging for these occupations. Before I gave him an example, but we can make a rest of Catalonia and we can find the cases of the Llagosta, fifteen days ago; of Mataró, which you mentioned; we could talk about the Hospitallet, Barcelona, Manila, Terrassa, Constantí..., the list would be endless, huh? And we're even aware that there are organized gangs that illegally occupy and then extort owners to leave. It's either in women's money or I don't get away with this habitation, because legal processes are very long, isn't it? This is a phenomenon that is produced in cities, but also, every time, in populations with second-residence habitats. And it's not acceptable to accept that if they don't give money or an alternate piss on the way, because they don't come from all these processes that I've mentioned before. And that's a full-blown chant we don't think we can accept. Nor is the deterioration of the relationship between the community and the community due to the lack of payment of community spending. Here we could also put in the same bag the benches, which are... that are resisting the completion of their community dues. So what we want to know – I know it's an issue that probably isn't exactly his advice, but it's the government's – is what the government's policy is to fight against these mafias, what the Catalonian police do about these issues, isn't it? Because this is a business that goes up and we think we need to punch it. We are also aware of the current difficulties of current legislation, but the laws are either to change them or to modify them when they do not respond to the problems. I already point out that in the motion that we will be presenting also in this line, they are aware that some of the problems have to be solved in the Congress of Deputies. We believe that whenever occupations affect physical persons, social entities and public administrations with social habitation, it will be necessary to look for us legal instruments because the courts can order the relocation without waiting for long and gruesome processes, because, if not, people do not understand it. Cal, I told him, counsel, to change the laws; also to prevent proliferin..., because here there is the double trade, right? : that of the people from the stitch to the door; but then came also other groups, who also have behaviors, let us say, mobsters, that for a certain amount of money that the owner pays and solve the problem, and dislodge the habitation. These are two phenomena we have to fight. And speaking of the rule that we have to make, by virtue of the law that we have approved, we believe that in this new rule it is necessary to establish a clear, decisive position that allows us to differentiate occupations without title or authorization, in good faith, from those that respond to Mafia activities and criminal character.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.15.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. The word has Ms. Meritxell Borràs, Governance Advisor, Public Administrations and Housing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.16.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, we continue to match the analysis strongly and, therefore, go ahead with what you say. Need to be faster on the part of the jutjats; this is a need and a will. And it is in this sense that the initiative that I mentioned before, which will be a few days from now to debate in the Congress of Deputies, therefore, allows it, and therefore gives the opportunity to pull it forward. We'll see if the Congress of Deputies, which is competent, can do it... so you can pull it forward and if you want to profile something, but logically, give us a new tool, which we now require, so that we can take it forward. Another topic that you mentioned and that we also agree on: the need to work together, I say, with the Interior, and I also say with Justice. And that's what we're doing. The three counselors, in this environment, we're working. And, for example, cite it, therefore, a concrete programme of activity, on April 4th, in the Center for Legal Studies and Specialized Training, which is due in time to deal also, in the judicial world, with all that is the problem relating to the illegal occupation of habitats. There is also a clear action here. But for what it refers to the development of the law and its rules, I think we also need to make clear a whole series of things. In the first place, this law represents an important adventure with respect to what we have so far. And, in this sense, his parliamentary group and the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes also presented a joint statement, which was approved, and which gives us new tools, which we have not yet had, in order to be able to work. And you were talking about this. One. Listen to me, when there's an occupation in a public habitation, okay? And so there's a situation -- we've found one -- where a person who's passed through all the filters, went to the Emergence Table and was assigned a habitat and found that he's busy. Well, then, what we... say this law that you can't get ahead of, of the one who has the right established to be able to hold the habitation, an occupation. And, therefore, this is a positive element that gives us tools to act and, therefore, to use all the prerogatives to solve the situation of occupation and that can thus enjoy the housing of that family to which, therefore, through the table of emergency, it has been awarded. This is a key element. There are, therefore, other elements, as you mentioned, which is the subject of coexistence and the need for this to follow. And when we're talking about not having to, as we say, all these other derivatives, it's obvious that here sometimes there is a bad coexistence and that, therefore, these elements, therefore, must be able to use, in the sense of being able to act and, therefore, to give a positive response. With respect to which it is to have more housing and the banking world. Well, listen, at these times we have more than two thousand, of these 3,960 that are compromised to be yielded, and therefore, this is a number that I think we cannot need. But it is also true that now, through the law, we have a new tool, as it is, therefore, the expropriation of the use of housing, in which the Government has purchased, through the assumption, to have practically 7_million_i_mig to co-finance with the joints, so, what it can be to have new housing, this habitat that we have previously used, and so that families have it at a reasonable price. Another element that you mentioned before: all the development that the regulation has to have, and which, in this sense, we have worked on; we have worked on this whole issue of occupation. You quote – and I like to say it, because it's my city – the city of the Hospitallet, among others, huh? But that's what we've been working on with them, too. And so, in this sense, the initiatives that you proposed, so I think they're enough in line with what you're saying about the rules with which we think. And, therefore, escort'm, let me tell you one very important thing: the uplifting is that all the families that need housing the first that they need to do – the first that they need to do – is to go to the Agency of Habitatage of Catalonia, or to the social services of their gatherings. It is from here, and not through occupation, that we, with the country, must be able to give an answer. It is through collaboration between different administrations that we can give the best response. And, therefore, this is where we'll find each other. It's not a question to see if one is more medallious, if one does it first, or if he's had a brilliant idea before. It's about working together, doing things positively, as I think we're trying to do on behalf of the government. Therefore, the fact of materializing that everyone has right to a public habitat and, therefore, that this is a reality, goes so as to be able to work together to bring this Law forward 4/2016; that it is a good law, that it gives us tools that are already in the hands of the gatherings, because we have made this development of the law together with them, and therefore there is this formation. And thank you, really, for all the positive contributions that you've made since this bean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on democratic regeneration]] [[300-00138/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on democratic regeneration, presented to the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it, has the word Mr. José María Espejo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.18.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillors, Members, Members: corruption, corruption, corruption and corruption. I know you won't like it, Mr. Counselor of Transparency, to hear about this word; neither will we. I know it's not your favorite topic and I know you have little to say about it, because you've done little. But, look, Mr. Counsellor, do you know what the first concern of Spanish citizens is? Independence? No, no, It's unemployment. And do you know what the second and growing concern of Spanish citizens is? Independence? No, no, Corruption – corruption – Mr Romeva. We have to imagine, moreover, that these data referring to the whole of Spain are also repeated in Catalonia. And I say that we have to imagine it, Mr Romeva, because in the public survey that the Government of the Generalitat is doing, it is asking everything, absolutely everything, less specifically for corruption. Is that a coincidence, Mr. Romeva? – Is that a coincidence? Is it all right with Mr. Transparency Advisor? Because if you think that Catalans are not equally concerned about corruption, I would also appreciate it if you would tell us. I am sure, personally, that they are much more concerned than independence; but in the end. I have to tell you, Mr. Romeva, again, and even though you and your Convergence government colleagues do not like it: corruption, corruption, corruption and corruption. And you will be listening to it from our group until you do something, and until you specifically do something effective to fight corruption. This history of corruption – and the citizens of Catalonia know it well – begins many years ago, almost the same as that which has been governing Convergence, the party of which you are today a partner and a partner of government, and many of whose members are behind the most sound cases of corruption in Catalonia. A non-exhaustive enumeration: Banca Catalana case, Prenafeta case, De la Rosa case, Cullell case, Estevill case, Pretoria case, ITV case, Pujol case, and, of course – not to mention – Palau case ; that makes the courts today look more like the high school theater and Mr Millet a tenor playing La Traviata converging. And today, in addition, another tenor – another tenor – has just performed the same work. Anyway, there's a lot more. And also, of course, there are very sound cases that affect other parties, such as the Mercury case to the Socialist Party. Not to mention the cases, even more sonic and more important, in Spain, such as the Bárcenas or the Gürtel case, of the People's Party. And the ones left to go. But here, in Catalonia, where you are, counselor, the party of your government partners, your partner, the party with the most corruption cases in Catalonia, is having a hard judicial winter, and it seems that it will also be a judicial spring that is not going to be anything soft. Convergence, his partner – I insist –, his government partner, his coalition partner, also has the lord..., his own particular Barcens walking through the courts. And in this, Mr. Romeva, your partners and fellow governments of Convergence do exactly the same as the People's Party, and you support that. They have their treasurers charged and a president who doesn't show up. How similar in this, Mr. Romeva, are your colleagues in Convergence government to the Government of Spain. Look, even though the CEO doesn't ask about corruption, we do have some data, fortunately, that offers us quite interesting conclusions, drawn from the last barometer of the Anti-Fraud Office of Catalonia. For example, that 82_per_cent of Catalans believe that corruption is a very or quite serious problem– 82_per_cent of Catalans: eight_of_each_ten– ; that 74_per_cent of Catalans believe that in Catalonia there is a lot or quite corruption– 74_per_cent. And the data that most affects you as a Transparency Advisor – and that, in fact, is the subject of this inquiry, if you really want to be a Transparency Advisor beyond the name – is that 82_per_cent, too, of Catalans think that politicians don't do what they do to fight corruption. That is, to make it clearer, that eight_of_each_ten Catalans think that you, as responsible for the matter, do not do what you do to end corruption– eight_of_each_ten Catalans think that you, responsible for the fight against corruption, do not do what you do to fight corruption. There is also another fact that affects you quite a lot – the most important fact, by the way – that is that politicians do not give explanations about their management. And it is significant that there is a Transparency Council and that we have that data. But, of course, it is no longer surprising when one sees that the Transparency Adviser himself has to force independent transparency bodies to be transparent and to give the information to which Members of the opposition in this Parliament are entitled. Then nothing's surprising anymore, is it? That's why, among other things, you'll understand that we don't trust you, because we can't trust you. Because even if there's a law that says it, a Parliament table that says it, an independent body that says it, listen, you don't want to be transparent. That is why we do not trust you either on matters of corruption. And we will bring this issue to Parliament as many times as it takes, even if it has to be for others to force it, and you do something, even if it's wrong – I insist, even if it's wrong. Why? Well, look, simple, flat and simply because your Government has done nothing in the fight against political corruption. Now it is understood, now we all understand, that from your Government or your group they are defending a republic of zero corruption; but, of course, they were referring to ‘zero of zero anti-corruption measures – zero anti-corruption measures. Because, if not, please tell me what you have done, or what your Government has done, in the fight against corruption. I have told you that you have shown that you do not like to be transparent, and I know that you do not like that, Mr. Counsellor of Transparency, but, I insist, I tell you not only myself, but independent transparency bodies. And I want to believe that you, personally, are against corruption – I want to believe it. So why not propose any measures? Why don't you say something? Why does your Government do nothing? Because you are responsible for the matter within Mr Puigdemont's cabinet. Maybe they won't let him – maybe they won't let him – Mr. Romeva. I can understand it, if that's why; I can't share it, but I can understand it. Its president is – its president of the government – of the party of the 3_per_cent – or of the 4, that we have now learned that it was the 4 –, that of the sieges for political corruption, that of the imputed treasurers, that of the many other public offices imputed for political corruption; the party of President Puigdemont. The same party as today – the same party as today – is also sitting on the bench, together with Mr Millet, as a lucrative participant in the corruption crimes that are being tried. It's your president's party. So, I can understand that it's the same as that; it's the same because its president of the government, the president of the government to which you belong, your fellow electoral candidate, is part of the party affected by corruption in most of the cases in Catalonia. Maybe that's why. If so, then say it and we understand it anyway. But I encourage you, too, and I ask you, Mr Romeva, that this does not stop you. Plant it, man. Do something, even if President Puigdemont doesn't like it. Say: "Hey, Carles, we have to do something; I know you don't like it anyway, but I'm getting sick. Do something, please. Do something. Just as you find an ally also in Mr Junqueras, or in other Esquerra advisors who also feel uncomfortable, even though they keep quiet as well. They shut up now, because before, with the tripartite, they were hard on Convergence. Now—now—shut up. Or you can also find support in another group that supports Junts for Yes on other issues, the UPC, which also say that they feel bad about what the government is doing about corruption, or that they feel little or nothing. He has allies to do something about it, but in front of him; in front of the party of 3_per_cent, or 4_per_cent; in front of him, please have that dignity. Will you continue to protect President Puigdemont's party without naming the forbidden word – without naming the prohibited word? I name it again: corruption, corruption, corruption, corruption. Listen, I ask you, who is not of that party, because, in the end, press – press – that is what you are a counselor for. Or are you finally going to do something real, other than put the name ‘transparent? ' Look, the diagnosis is done. The facts I quote are indisputable, and more these days. You now do not organize concentrations in the courts to ask to condemn the corrupt, although this, in the Convergence Party, is a variable doctrine, because also in this case Palau did go to support people who are now sitting on the bench; now they no longer go. Finally, I will now, in the next part of my speech, propose some measures, but I would like you to tell me what you are proposing and whether you have actually done something so far to combat corruption. Because, frankly, there are many in this Parliament who believe that you and your Government have done nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.19.0	Thank you, Mr. Mirror. [[Greetings.]] Next, the words of Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Congressman, I didn't expect anything else. The truth is that they already get used to this repeated speech, with a certain amount of theatricality, that they then turn into bats. Because it's the politics they like to do; the show, the image, the empty speech. But then I am surprised by this obsession they have with a subject, which is corruption, which I am deeply concerned about, which I deeply condemn, and which I repeat, in a very clear, emphatic way, as I have always done at the length of my life before the present government responsibility, and also now: in any case where there is a responsibility, this responsibility must be assumed and paid. That's why I'm surprised that a party like you, that you have this facility to ask for things in Catalonia, then make government presidents the most corrupt party in Europe, not to mention the world. It is surprising that this force you ask the Government of Catalonia, after which you put it in its butxaques, in its spaces of questionable dignity when it comes to talking about the case Noos, the Palma Arena, the Pokémon, the Scale, the Fabra, the Punica, the black targets, Bankia, etcetera. But they don't just do it, but they're more of a supporter of the government's vote than they're more responsible for these things. But we didn't come here to talk about it. It'd be nice if you guys were consistent, too, huh? In his report here and there; it's obvious they're not. Here we came to talk about something else and I have no problem doing it. The fight against corruption begins from generating trust with administrations. The role that this government has, and particularly that of my council, my department, or the department that I have to head, is precisely to break with a series of dynamics, not just opacity, but lack of mechanisms to guarantee the direct access of the citizenry to the decision making. And that's a lot of points of view. It's from the perspective of transparency. And that, however much you have a speech spent, tired, monotonous, denial of reality, the data are what they are. And from this point of view, the initiations that have come from this department – that they know, because many of the acts that we have done, you, or some of you, or some of you have been present – are unquestionable and have to see with the inn at the disposal of the people of a series of instruments. The last 27th of February, without going any further, was inaugurated the portal of Participa. I'm stuck. cat, which is precisely the pre-consultation tool in the application of the regulation, or pre-applies to the application of the Partial Development Regulation of the Transparency Law 19/2014, which, as you know, is precisely the tool that allows us also at these times to guarantee precisely this access to public data. It is perfectly available to everyone the campaign« Enter your home, which allows to give to know the new portal Government Obert ; an open government that, for another band, offers the tools to access the information, evaluate the public management, and participate in the design and decision making of public policies, which, for another band, has an extraordinary recognition by many people. And there is also absolutely no question about the mechanism of the access to public information, every time more known by the citizenry and, therefore, highly valued, which consists in the exercise of the right of access. And here we obviously want to highlight the work that the GAIP owes to the end. This department has never refused to respond to the requests made to it and has always responded on a timely basis, rigorously, despite the fact that even in some cases the requests were questionable in substance and form. But the will is unquestionable, Mr. Mirror, and from this point of view you can make the report you want; and in it you make a report, obviously, partial and interested, for your particular interests of the party, than of the country, and still less of a society. But even beyond that, you are asking for concrete measures. I'll remind them, because he knows them perfectly – he knows them perfectly – but he doesn't want to talk about them on this side. This Government has been completely compromised by the development of the law and, above all, by the measure of demanding it from the staff, the Administration, the policy makers, the people who are obliged to represent opinions, and the volunteers, and the popular needs, from the adoption of a code of conduct of senior officials and direct staff, which precisely pursues to ensure that it is in compliance with the ethical principles and rules of conduct to be exemplarized by the Government. As the Register of Interest Groups has also been set aside, which is precisely, as you know, one of the most important tools here and there in order to ensure that in the relations between the Administration and those actors who may have a determined, legitimate – legitimate, but determined – interest, there must be total and absolute transparency. And, in fact, since that register was created, we already have more than a thousand and five hundred registered entities and it works – it works very well. Therefore, further, to put it this way, from the politics of Twitter or Facebook or YouTube policy, which is what you like to do, here is a clear and firm will of the politics of the fetuses. There is an obviously unquestionable will to attack any bad practice that can be produced in the market of public contracts. And, in fact, for this – for this – without waiting for the government's response and precisely advancing us ahead of the lack of action of the Spanish Government, to which you give unquestionable support, we have approved the Decree of Public Contract Measures, which is already at these moments in discussion also in this chamber and which, therefore, I invite you to contribute to it in a participatory way, in a clear way, in a constructive way, and not in a rhetorical and empty way, as often as you are accustomed to. But there is still one more element: the credibility of the Administration passes to ensure that it is available to citizens, people, people, those mechanisms of participation in decision-making. And here he won't give us lessons, either, you. But not one – not one. From the area of participatory processes we have promoted more processes than ever, in absolutely different themes, such as clock reform, participatory process to plan health care, the Citizens' Platform and migrations, partnership programs and volunteering; democratic innovation days have also allowed us to plan the future of education, and we will typically also make a _marc of discussion about governance in the world of sport. It is practical, practical, daily and daily questions that basically allow the taking of decisions to be socialised and the taking of decisions to be part of that taking of decisions by those actors who will, of course, be the final recipients. That's why it's so surprising that someone who talks about transparency, someone who talks about democratic radicality or democratic regeneration, someone who talks about the need to involve people in deliberative processes, is so successful at the time of making the most radically transparent and democratic decision that we can find at these times, that it's to consult the people who want for their future and that of their children. That's why it's incomprehensible, Mr. Mirror, that you, who fill your mouth with supposedly radical and democratic poses..., are so completely closed and obtuse and opaque at the time of planting that most radical measure that we have in our hands, as it is precisely asking society what it wants and, obviously, listening to its opinion. There is a huge contradiction – huge – between what they say and what they do here and to the State. And we could continue to explain concrete things, such as, for example, how open data is being managed; measures that we had just last week had the opportunity to present to the Open Data initiative and which ensured the maximum value on the part of the participants. Or the recognitions that you have obviated from Transparency International at the time of clearly and unquestionably raising the highest qualification, both from the point of view of quantitative and qualitative data. But you didn't come here to talk about it. You don't talk about it because they don't care. You're not worried about that. You are concerned to prevent legitimately a people, a country, a society from being able to do politics in a transparent and participatory way. Your speech, your practice, your report have nothing to do with the title of your appearance. They have to see a company underground at the maximum possible darkness. But that's not what we're gonna find out today, it's been a long time since we've known, and in fact, that's why you were born. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.21.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Romeva. The word "Mr. José María Espejo".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.22.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Romeva, get so messy and present the memos, huh? Be transparent [[applause]] And stop telling us trouble, stories to hide your lack of transparency. In any case, "show," you said, "show, show. Show is what you ride in the courts when you judge different things. Because when corruption is judged, then no, then hidden here. Obsession for corruption, of course it is. Obsessed with corruption. And we're gonna be obsessed with corruption all over the legislature. And I know it bothers you a lot, because it's your subject, it's your cryptonite, Mr. Romeva, corruption – it's your cryptonite. And by the way, you have chosen a bad day to attack us for our action against PP corruption. The day you ask for a commission of inquiry to investigate the corrupt funding of Convergence, then it tells me something [[applause]] – then tell me something. The day you demand a defendant... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, the day..., I'm talking to the counselor, if you want later, when I'm a counselor, I'll ask you. [[Greetings.]] The day you do that, then you talk to me – the day you do that, then you talk to me. Yes, you were attacking us, because we came to an agreement to invest a president. But you, on the other hand, are not voting for Mr. Mas – who, of course, voted for him in the first investiture session, the president of the most corrupt party in Catalonia – is that you shared the electoral list with him and the government. I mean, what do you tell me? [[Some applause.]] What do you tell me, Mr. Romeva? What do you tell me? It is that this speech is already very much spent – very much spent – that Catalans do not believe it – do not believe it. The code of conduct which you presume..., there is no need to make a megacode of conduct, it is necessary to be transparent, to respect the rights of Members of the opposition when they are asked to do so, as an independent body has told you about transparency; it has told you so. You can deny it, but, look, I've got it here; then I'll show it to you, if you want. Perhaps the officials in his department or those appointed to his finger did not want to read it, but that's what he says – he says that. [[The timer laughs.]] I mean, I don't know... anyway. [[Some applause.]] Anyway. Then we come here to talk about participatory processes, associationism, volunteering, sport governance... Congratulations. I congratulate you. I congratulate you on all that you've done. But forgive me: the question is of corruption! I mean, if you want to talk about the environment, but the question is about corruption, Mr Romeva. Anyway. Or the referendum. We already know what you think about the referendum: you want to repeat 9-N. But I insist – I know you don't like to talk about corruption –: the question is about corruption. Talk about corruption; don't tell us what you've done about sport governance, because this is not corruption. Finally, look, something much, much more concrete: do you agree, like all the opposition in this Parliament, that Mr Artur Mas, president of the party who is now sitting on the bench, along with the defendants of Palau, should come here as a profit-making participant? Do you agree that you come here to explain this to Parliament, eh? Because we, in Congress, do. We said: "Listen, everyone in the PP is going to explain their irregular funding. Of course I do – of course I do. Well, hey, you do the same here. If you have also been asked by all the opposition, and you are a Member here and you can vote. You can vote separate from your group, if you want, you, who is not from Convergence. Anyway, there are many more things that I can propose to you, and that I actually propose to you, to tell me... [[Widow's remorse.]] So you can tell me if you agree, when you're allowed to tell your mates. [[The timer laughs.]] I propose to you... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.23.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.24.0	I propose to do the following. For example, deploy the rules of the Transparency Act, Mr. Transparency Counsellor. It's easy. They don't even have to go through this Parliament. You can do it without urgency and without parliamentary debate, which is how you like to do things, huh? Because it's been two years without making the rules. Other things ask that they be treated as an emergency procedure, such as the Digital Wills Act, which is, let's finally, what all people talk about in bars, but corruption..., is that it doesn't unfold – it doesn't unfold. Another thing that we propose or rather remind you of: this Parliament has mandated you to make a law, a proposal for a comprehensive anti-corruption law. You abstained, I know. You abstained, as you abstain against corruption... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, you abstained. I know you don't want to listen to me, but this is what happens when you talk to the Transparency Advisor about corruption. [[applause]] : he abstains, does not want to hear, does not interest him, feels bad, and has to protect his partner of government, which is the party that is now on the bench as a profit-making participant. I get it. Anyway. Well, what I'm telling you is that instead of protecting those who are now on the bench, as participants in a lucrative form of corruption, protecting whistleblowers, and presenting a project, like the one we presented at the Congress of Deputies, to protect whistleblowers. Among many – among many – things: the stumbling blocks, those imputed off the lists or the charges, in short, the pardons to politicians..., everything you want, we can talk about it. But if you tell me about associationism and the governance of sport, when others tell you about corruption...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.25.0	Mr. Mirror, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.26.0	Well, we're not going anywhere. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.27.0	The word has Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.28.0	Mr. Mirror, read your request for inquiry: talk about democratic regeneration. That's the headline. That's the title you put down, huh? I didn't put it down, you put it down. Democractic regeneration means a lot of things. If you want to talk, too, of this, I have no problem, but I remember two things. It's this Parliament that started the Palau case process, huh? It's this Parliament, huh? [[Some applause.]] Not you, just this Parliament, huh? I remember that. And second, I remind you that, except in Catalonia – except in Catalonia – you can be imputed and be part of a government. Not here – not here. And, therefore, there are some differences. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And so there are some important differences, huh? I'm saying because, beyond her lack of education, she respects a deputy, who has the whole right of the world in power... [[remorse of the voice]] , to be able to express, with your fans continuously – with your fans continuously... [[some applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.29.0	Quiet, and please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.30.0	...more than his lack of education at the time of using a tot...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.31.0	Quiet. Respect the chorus of words. You've spoken before.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.32.0	...that it's absolutely incomprehensible. Beyond that, which we already know, and we already know each other, and in this sense we will no longer discover anything, I would like to remind you that when we talk about democratic regeneration, the most important thing is to understand what credibility institutions have. Just – precisely – of the twenty-eight states of the European Union, do you know what is in which there is less credibility of separation of powers and independence from the judiciary? The Spanish State. Only 15_percent of the people – only 15_percent of the people – believe – believe – in the Spanish State – in the Spanish State, Mr De Páramo, in the Spanish State – 15_percent of the people of the State believe that there is separation of powers, and believe in justice just as for everyone. And here's a phonenal difference. This is democratic regeneration, this is credibility in institutions, precisely those that you don't just want to not see it, but talk about it, because for you it's not a problem, that's all. That's why there's a problem in this country, that's why there's a problem in this company. And that is why there is a problem that is solved, precisely, by changing the system, depolitizing the Constitutional Court. You want to talk about corruption? Let's talk about it, seriously, really. Let's go to the rearrangement of things [[some applause]] , we don't have the superficiality, which is what you do, make-up policy, apparator policy. Let's go to the rearrangement of things. Democratic regeneration means, precisely, to stop chasing prosecutors when they want to fight corruption. This is happening at these times and you are supporting it. [[Some applause.]] This is happening, too, to other places in the State when what they are planting is asking for clear and non-restrictive lists at the time of demanding responsibilities, which you, when it affects certain spaces and governments to which they support, do not forget. Serious democratic regeneration, Mr De Páramo, once and for all, cease to cling. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, the look at you, in the interrogation... I've already returned it before. But I look at you because you don't shut up. Because you don't shut up, [[some applause]] because you are always intervening in all opinions and, moreover, stands up, obviously, as the spokesman of everyone and everyone. And I look at you because I look at you, and I've already answered Mr. Mirror before, and I've already given him the explanations that I seemed relevant to give him. What is absolutely transparent in a country is to respect people's opinion. Mr. Mirror, all the requests that have been made have been answered. Totes. And they're all responding. And you're still insisting with this song that after you use it to make headlines absolutely to measure, but from the point of view – from the point of view of the point of view – we'll have no shame, ever, here, there, and we don't have it in the State, to ensure that the only, the best, the most democratic way of building a free state of corruption is to allow people to express themselves freely about who is the model of the state they want. The day they understand this, they'll start to be credible, here and out. Meanwhile, you will not fail to be a cartoon of which you often criticize others. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.33.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about his actions in the province of Girona]] [[300-00139/11]] The next item is the question to the Government about his actions in the province of Girona ; presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word Mr. Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.34.0	Thank you, President. Honourable councillors, councillors, deputies, deputies, well, today I come to wear a size of this Catalonia so ours that it is Girona, that it is a province, like my own, to which I represent in this institution. And I have to say: many times it is critical of this chamber that centralism, power, of the State, but we also want to put into evidence that many times this government, which also concentrates, decides and analyzes, right? , from Catalonia, sometimes it seems that the focus is a one-stop visit to Barcelona and remains as access to the rest of the provinces. And I speak of reversal; I speak of reversal, of how and in what way, on a responsible basis, we must seek an equitable reversal, also to the province of Girona, counselor. Look, the rest of the provinces sometimes we also have a lot to say. Do you know why? Because we also contribute a lot to this chamber, to this institution, to all of Catalonia; we contribute with direct and indirect taxes. And the good treatment of a province also gives and puts on opportunities. Miri, Girona is a unique territory, together with Lleida, and it characterizes us as a fundamental part, which is that borderline with the country that sees Catalan autonomy as our own. Do you know what this is? It's an equal to a good treatment as well, and an equal to opportunities; opportunities for economic recovery, opportunities for links we have to maintain. And sometimes, too, I have to tell you, from this chamber expressions are used that we have already heard the reaction of this country see, that it is France, that they do not like to feel according to what comes out of a legitimate mark, of a mark also of the law, of the legal order and of that care and responsibility that from a government, when it comes down to what, should be held. Miri, as I said before, generate policies of economic reactivation... later on, there's usually a job reactivation. And when we're talking about how we're going to turn around, we're talking about creating and generating investments that we need and giving us an equal source at these times, that's nine activities, we're working places, instead of looking, many times, that epic are exploding, right? , that you use, instead of seeking, power, the mutual enrichment between the dialect, of being able to hear also that we have provinces to Catalonia that they need. And now I'm going to make it an element of different needs in our province, but as you will understand, not in two minutes... why would that involve a monogram, and a monogram that could last many hours, right? But we will do basic pointers in that sometimes for ourselves and for the citizenry that he saw in the Gironinian trades we understand that they are basics of reversal and, many times, we see that we remain in that poor subminimum. Miri, I do not represent the interests of a family; I represent the interests of a demarcation, of a Catalonia, but also, as an elected member of a province, of a demarcation such as Girona. And in this case, I look at the province of Girona asking, and its inhabitants need and deserve additional development in parties as I will now list, which are the following. Just when we're talking about the area of sanitation. Right now we have the debate, which I already remind you of going back from years, from the new Trueta, from the new Trueta hospital. Miri, from Ciutadans we won't be so far where this new location will be, but who we need to give, what quality of service. Will it be and will it have the necessary endowment to give out to Girona's needs? I, in this case, speak of the provincial capital. I also want to remind you, sometimes we have to talk about how we use it or, forgive me, how we misuse it... because I want to remember that first project where this new hospital, the Josep Trueta, was located over the same hospital that we have today. You remember, those three phases, don't you? , which we started for the journey, we ended for the beggars and we ended up with a third for the same hospital; a reality that has never arrived. Now we're flying pigeons again, entertaining in time. Now we'll see if it's in Salt's new hospital park or we'll have it, power, located very close to the hospital that exists today. But, look, I'm not going to talk in detail, because, like I said, I give you a minute for what you give. We could talk about education. How many barracks do we have? When and how do we keep them? Look, counselor, the evolution of the barracks... [[The clock shows the camera a full in which a graph is reproduced.]] The evolution of the barracks. Do you know what the evolution proves? Evolution goes up. We started with 995 modules and, as they say, we ended with 1,010 modules. But I went further, I won't just talk to him about Girona; I wonder what the map of Catalonia is in barracks. [[The clock shows the camera a full where a map is reproduced.]] This is political inaction, lack of policies to give out priority; priority that others, in many cases, always understand as urgency. You know, I've also heard the councilwoman talk before when she was talking about housing. Miri, Girona, that block occupied by Salt... it's not just that problem. Obviously, power was the media problem that you had to cover with a rush and currents action. But, listen, do you want us to talk about Figueres? You want to talk about the Ham Mark? From the barri de Sant Joan? , of Torre Alfons XII, where there is a relocation of, more or less, one hundred and fifty families..., pardon, thirty-seven families with one hundred and fifty members? That, now, Girona, like the capital, also has a problem with social housing, also of emergence. Do you want us to talk about how and how we treat our tourism? As I said before, a province that has opportunities ahead in the field of tourism, a good treatment... When we talk about accessibility, infrastructure – advisor, infrastructure –, accessibility, connection... A good treatment of tourism also reverses us into an economic recovery, if the treatment well, that after has a work recovery; as I said before, places of work. We could also be talking about agriculture, and we'd have to deal with the next detail, where we could get into practice. I told you, I've got a minute. But when we talk about agriculture, how and how we work on the enveloping of the camp, how we manage the opportunities of nine generations who want to continue with what they have made their opinions and their parents. As we deal with the rowing in our communities, when that young woman presents expansion projects, projects to integrate and take over the replenishment of her peers, as I have said, and of her opinions, and it is found that they must make a first reversal where they have no guarantee of how they will end up or in what way they will get that help for that new exploitation or expansion they want to do. How do you guarantee it? Who are the real policies that you carry to guarantee this future, not just agrarian and rowing? Or do those help with the ecological absorptives, don't you? When we talk about the area of fishing. Girona has confraternities that are still claiming hardship. I know what you'll tell me and come to make me a decaleg of everything we do in the province of Girona. But, look, more than you've come to me today to make a stop at everything that we need in the province of Girona, I would make a proposal to you: come out here, take the opportunity and start talking about everything that doesn't work in the province of Girona, about everything that we can improve, about everything that isn't contemplated or reflected in a presupposition. Are we talking about airport connections? I know you'll tell me that the airport has fallen apart. Obviously, when we had him on the handle, did we want to treat him well? Are we going to give them a way out? Are we going to make those logical connections? No, being able to look at another song and the reversal was lost on other paths that you normally use. But, I'll also say, look, in the middle: right now, we have the Figueres Assembly warned for the European Community. A scrubber that is continuously contaminating the Muga river, with a warning from the European Community, that you are aware that those sanctions are not laughable, but they are strong, and with a warning: that urgent measures are being taken. Do you want us to talk about Plaça Catalunya in Girona? On the one hand, from the Junta de Girona – and the President, the very honorable President of the Generalitat, ex-mayor of Girona, knows it well –..., where we were asking for help – and I will already use the word "help" – to that ACA, where the ACA said to us: "We are under minims. We know that it is a municipal competence, because it is a public road located on top of a river; municipal competence, but at no time above, sometimes, an assembly or a municipality, we can have this institution that should put the ull to contribute and give solutions to a problem such as Plaça Catalunya, with structural problems, where we have also delimited the vehicles that pass there and five more. But, look, when they were talking too... I heard the counselor talking about education. Sometimes grab that thing that works and think about us - that's good. I would advise you to look at the Institute of Bescanó, an institute that incorporates the different languages in a very equal way and, suddenly, is the best note to the gironine comarques. Sometimes, grab and watch what works power gets us to carry policies that can enrich us. In the second reply time I will have the opportunity to continue, counselor. But I'm telling you, take the opportunity, get out today; don't give me another chance to name everything we're trying to do right, and we'll end up with the monotheme. Come here, grab the kingdoms, and talk about the problems...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.35.0	Mr. Castel...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.36.0	...that there are many and they are real.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.37.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.38.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.39.0	Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.40.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. MP, you, from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, legitimately make a reply to the inquiry they made, now fifteen days ago, regarding the demarcation of Lleida. In this case, there is a slight progress in respect of that previous inquiry, which is not strictly based on weight. That was a fetal intervention, from our modest perspective, from absolute acomplexity. In this case, let's just say, you've pulled a little..., or you've pulled a little more pretense yourself. But there is an extraordinary gap between how the inquiry began and how it developed – cordially. From our perspective, in a shared space to be able to work on it, you have begun a reasonably good inquiry: we are talking about everything that can enable us to reactivate economic activity to spin-off markets; we are looking at what are those strategic projects that will allow us to generate more prosperity, more jobs; and ultimately, the state of well-being. The headline was bo– the headline was bo–, it was an interesting headline. But you ended up talking, let's say, about an educational center in Bescanó. Which is fine, Bescano's educational centre, and we don't have to talk about many, but it has made an inquiry, in development, of lost. I mean, he didn't report it; that's the problem. That is to say, consider it well – cordially –; examine it well. He didn't tell her. We do not know exactly what you want to prioritize, what you want to plant, what you want to do: in terms of mobility infrastructures? , in the field of industrial strategy? Or agraria? We didn't know what the concrete basis was. Therefore, to someone who can listen, they say: "Home, it is that the Government of Catalonia acts with absolutely centralist criteria, does not prioritize a part of the territory in terms of territorial balance, territorial cohesion, and subjugates the gironine comarques, like the comarques of Lleida, to very high levels of disinvestment. And it seems to me that what can help us in the first instance is to define an objective _framework, see what we're talking about when we talk about inversions to every territory. I'm making parenthesis here. We are concerned about the concept of the province, and we are very concerned about it. We don't like it, it's a concept that's not ours, huh? We talk about demarcations, we talk about comarques. But the concept "provinces" is a concept of 1833; it's a concept, let's say, that... But we speak, in the provincial sphere that you say, of Girona, the demarcation of Girona, with concrete elements. Miri, respect the assumptions or forecasts for the year 2016, which we are about to settle. At Girona's demarcation there was an investment forecast of €54 million. In fact, the year 2015 there was a liquidation of 61_million euros. The forecast for the year 2017, under these assumptions that you do not want to vote, is 85_million euros. Therefore, there is an increase of 64_per_cent in relation to the investment volume. Let's go look at the inversion per capita. Let's move from seventy-two euros in year 16, to one hundred and thirty-nine euros in year 17. This is objective data from which the Government of Catalonia's investment effort in this concrete area is. There's a higher forecast of reversal, there's a higher effort. And at Girona's demarcation again, as at Lleida's demarcation, there is a reversal over the middle of Catalonia in relation to the per capita reversal, which we believe is a good criterion, a good mechanism that allows us to seek this territorial cohesion. But you... in the line of saying who are the strategic projects. And more or less, there's been some exhaustion. Miri, I'm talking about two concrete projects – two. One, to which you have not made any reference – no reference. It's one of the most important, fundamental; that the logic would be that you have the leadership of the State. We may regret that the State ceases to do things; when the State does not do them, the Government of Catalonia does them. I am talking specifically about the activities on the Vilamalla logistics platform; which basically means incorporating the international scope into this intermodal centre. Who acts here is not the Spanish State. Who acts here is the Generalitat de Catalunya. We're going over the Spanish State. And now, this month of February, we have awarded the drafting of the project built for the implementation of the international highway to the terminal of goods of Vilamalla, to the High Empordà. With many difficulties, because we do... it's not that you don't do it the Spanish State, that you should do it, but that we do it, and so on, with many difficulties that put us in the same Spanish State. This is a strategic action. This is an activity that generates a lot of economic activity around the gironine comarques, around logistics, and logistics of first order, of first level. And a_second element – to which you neither..., there was a reference for above –, which is all that makes reference to Girona airport. Girona Airport is the victim of a centralized management model by AENA. What do you mean? In the sense that in AENA, at a certain point, it was of interest to prioritise Terminal 2 of the airport of Barcelona – the 2–, where all the companies that operate from point to point and operate from the low cost, ignoring that the airport of Reus and the airport of Girona previously had an important ability to compete; but in the measure that the rates, the taxes, are not fixed from the territory, but that they are fixed from Madrid, there is no margin to be able to do this, let us say, competence, to be able to fill in the quota, to specialise in the airport of Girona. We, like the General of Catalonia, what are we doing together with the Girona Chamber of Deputies? We are doing all the business policy to retain an important volume of flight offer in this area, and in this concrete area. And we're making a reversal, which won't let us do the Spanish State, to improve the infrastructure that allows us to connect better in road and rail the airport of Girona. I have talked to him about two strategic projects – Villamalla and Girona Airport – that have, I insist, a very wide capacity to increase the economic activity that you return to the territory. These are elements. And now there is another, that is the ports, and the port of Palamós, that is, from a point of view of traffic of goods, after the two great ports of general interest, at the level of goods, at the level of diggers, at the level, also, of nautical, an important, relevant port. We are making a sustained reversal in very considerable time. Here we have a limitation, in relation to the border inspection point, which limits us extraordinarily the possibilities to deploy it. And what do we do? In fact, it's abstraction. Let's keep working. I have put three concrete cases of projects that enable us to activate the territory. And beyond that, from the Català del Sòl Institute we are preparing just strategic fish so that, in the field of trade or in the field of industry or in the field of logistics, there are opportunities for economic deployment. But we're going further. Are we talking about mountain policies? That you too... this must be an element that you don't know about. What we are doing from the same Generality of Catalonia, from the stations of the Molina, Vall de Núria, Vallter 2000, with a very important volume of reversal that once again has an important return in the territory. But you feel more comfortable talking about it..., about its classic, about the delinquent is Carthago de Ciutadans: about the barracks. We are talking about concrete actions, the reversal of barriers. We prefer to talk about prefabricated modules. We are aware that there is a transitional situation, but the important thing is the quality of the teaching there is. And the standards at Girona's demarcation are high. But you more than content they care about the stone, they care about the hardware. Talk to us, too. Let's talk about the new constructions placed in service, the year 2016, of Caldes de Malavella – de la Benaula –, de Calonge – de la Sinia. Let's talk about the projects we are doing the year 2017 in Salt, and another project in Caldes de Malavella, or the construction of educational centers in Roses, Arbucies, Sant Joan de les Abadesses, of €9.5_million. You can talk about that. We can also speak in terms of salvation, of what makes reference to the bidding of the drafting of the expansion project of the surgical block and the oncology day hospital of the Trueta de Girona. Are we talking about concrete investments? Let's talk about ops. You should tell us what the playing field is, because it is very complicated to answer a question based on the dramatic absence of project, model, which is what you have shown with your intervention, and from the lost. So it's very hard to build anything. And then they'll make us a next place: phone list. We're serious, we're looking at what we prioritize and we're looking at how we really transform people's lives. If they want to do this, they'll always find it next to the government of Catalonia. If you want to go looking for the media headline, it will be difficult for us to build a common future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.42.0	Miri – thank you, president –, advisor: lost opportunity. As I said, you're already getting ready with all that battery to give us a few minutes of what you're gonna do or stop doing, because you're running out of time, so you know you're filling your mouth, and then we don't see any reality, huh? Why are we six years old, huh? , a bit of governance and not having real and active policies. I liked it very much when you say that..., being able to talk about provinces is not very good for you, but they are for all the provincial parliaments, which we understand as a double or triple, and so we would like to be able to minimize this impact, which is also an economic expense that citizens pay, because we think that it could be taken, too, to a better reversal of the citizen. But, I'll tell you, we're not talking about district councils either: 1,067 county councilors in Catalonia, Mr. Councillor, keepers. We set ourselves up, without losing the community of service, with a council of mayors, we would resume the issue and be able to cause a waste of more than 3 million euros a year. Fix it there, if it would tend to be reinvested with these moneys – fix it there. It's about volunteering, about prioritizing. I know he's gonna try to get back out here and try to unravel everything that bothers him to feel. But do you know what's going on? That our province, and in this case Girona, which is my land, needs you. And not because you come here to make a decage and try to disassemble them, we'll stop telling them. We know that it bothers you when you don't have a policy or a policy of foresight and prevention that you must also do to the provinces to give and generate opportunities. But I'll tell you one thing, too: when you talk about... I'm going to push you out of the barracks, power, for the state, counselor. Prefabricated modules – that can be the correct word, that you have used –, I have to tell you that they have a maintenance. You know that, don't you? What do they have a hold on? Not just the cost of prefabricated modules; that which they do not carry to term. Because this humble deputy, when he was governor, was in the corner of many AMPAs that were to be painted... they themselves, the parents, were doing the work where the institution did not arrive. This is embarrassing. And that's real reversal, and that's solving the problems. I don't know how he can get out here and sometimes he doesn't look ashamed, going to someone who knows that territory, who climbs it every day and who's fifty-one years of his life who climbs the gironine comarques and who sees what is a province. If he disturbs the word "province" and you like to call it "territories, I am the same, as I say; what matters me, as I am, is that I fix all the problems that we have, that are not few. I know that the runaway before she uses it..., "runaway from the runaway just like when Lleida's company came to prove everything they needed for Lleida; for you, the runaway from the runaway is to come with the decáleg, right? "We will cover – we will cover –, cautiously, don't let people think we're not doing it. Do you know what's going on? That the one who makes, the few who make, remains, in many cases, subminims. We can only relegate ourselves to a presupposition where we see macroparties that, well used, well invested and directed to who really deserves them, that are the citizens..., because I can remember them - I do, sometimes: these moneys do not fluctuate by the work and grace of the Holy Hope, counselor, they are direct and indirect taxes that bring our citizens, and it is the responsibility of this Government to manage them with care, rigor and responsibility. And we see, sometimes, lack of responsibility when we talk about how and how you reflect it in a premise: "mirri, no parties – of common sense – concrete to give out to real problems." You were talking about the mountain, the mountain and the sea, all of which are opportunities in our province. And I won't go into the detail, nor will I go into where you would like me to go in, which is to pervert, power, reality and need it. We will continue to carry them, from Ciutadans, in this House of this Parliament, all that is a waste: to demand a government that must apply rationality, common sense and responsibility towards the people who live, as you have said, in a territory. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.43.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Castle. I got the word Councilman Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.44.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Congressman: vaporous, vaporous, vaporous. I've been trying to hear exactly what he wanted us to do now. What concrete did you say? Did he explain? He talked about vagaries, commonplaces. Listen, the action of government, to which you are very little accustomed– very little accustomed–, because, in fact, I would say that you do not manage practically any direct assumption euro here in Catalonia – practically, practically – needs the ability to define concrete projects in the form of assumptions and with the will of transformation. And you, I insist, are not overtaken... in this second part of the inquiry you have not been able to talk practically about any concrete subject. Who's your daughter? Talk about the district councils. Go to the district councils, look at the political capacity of the district councils. I remember a time when someone came out of Ciutadans, I would say that with enough solemnity and enough strength, to explain what his model of territorial administrations would be, and he had an extraordinary lack of understanding for the men and women, the directors and the directors, the councillors and the local councillors who practically change from one another to another have an intense dedication in the general interest. I recall that one of his brilliant proposals was to make the municipalities smaller than twenty thousand inhabitants disappear – this was not one of the proposals – so as to rationalise public administration. The other day he was in the Upper Ribagorça and he thought: "Hosti, if Ciutadans could decide in the Spanish State, there would be no municipalities in the Upper Ribagorça, there would be no municipalities in the Pallars Sobirá, there would be no municipalities in the Pla de l'Estany, there would be no municipalities... In Lleida, you know how many municipalities would remain, from his perspective? If I'm not wrong, Lleida, Balaguer, Molerussa and Tarrega would be left, and now it's four municipalities for a whole demarcation. Do you know, I insist, the number of people, of directors and directors who, without pay, are the ones who endure the territorial balance? This is an absolutely centralist vision of not hearing what kind of country we want to be, what kind of country we want to be. He's going further than that. Three territories, look at the small towns of this country; respect a little more the people who, on a change of heart, are able to maintain prosperity and well-being in this country. That's what you'll never understand. This is what separates us abysmally: two radically different conceptions of hearing the country, of conceiving public action, of conceiving public service. This is the most basic and substantial difference. And you get angry when we talk about concrete things, when we refer to actions linked to the sphere, for example, of reels, to act on one of the reels that has a level of left-handedness..., until now it had the highest level of left-handedness: the national 141, the revolt of shame, to Bescanó; or 166, to the Pla de l'Estany, with a reversal of 9.7_million euros; or all the 20_million euros investment package to the Baix Ter road network, in Baix Empordà. This is concrete things, and concrete actions. Or the fact of having deployed, which you must sound like an absolutely stratospheric thing, the Authority of Transport Metropolity to the gironine comarques, which has allowed us to increase the number of users to public transport by 80_per_cent, in accordance with the year 2006. Public transport: yes, it exists, and this country manages it, and it manages it reasonably well, despite the economic and financial difficulties the country has. And you were also talking about the prefabricated modules and what we're doing in this sense. So, through the RAM, through these infrastructure adequacy programs in the field of teaching, we make a very considerable reversal of maintenance: 3_millions last year, 3_millions this year. That's the basic idea. Therefore, the conclusion. They will bring us a subsequent motion: another time, the whole list; but they will again ignore, as in Ciutadans, from the Ciutadans Group, which is the economic and presuppositional basis for all these actions. For a band, they'll ask us to do it all the same time. And, for another band, they will continue to deny this country the possibility of managing the resources, the money that this country generates, manages. With someone who has a conception of Catalonia from Madrid, from the outside, it will be very difficult for us to transform the day-to-day and future of the people of this town. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the future law of health and social]] [[300-00140/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on the future law of health and social, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose her, has the word "Mrs. Alba Vergés".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.46.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, good morning. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Well, let's bring this question to the House about the compromise that we have acquired with the citizens in the programme and also in the plan of government to start discussing, to talk about, a future law of health and social in Catalonia. The report of salvation, the last one we have, of 2016, begins by defining the social environment, the physical environment of our country, which I find absolutely relevant, more than defining those strictly sanitary aspects: a social environment that marks us, more than 7 million inhabitants in our country, some births that decrease since the year 2008 and that, more than that, marks a trend that will follow; a high, and not only that, but a long, extremely high, long, 10_percent of the population; 1.4 million people under the umbrella of the poor after social transfers, and that marks us, also, in a situation of socio-economic inequality in our country. How does this demographic environment, this socioeconomic environment, the salvation of our people affect? So, very much, it affects very much. A system with indicators of life expectancy, indicators of life expectancy with good health, which are good – if we compare ourselves to those countries in which we are used to admiring, we have some results of these indicators frankly good – but a system that does have. But we don't have them so much in the same system, only when we have to analyze not just the system, but those determinants that affect the salvation of people and this socioeconomic situation that we have in our country. When we pose to look at these indicators not only of life expectancy, but of the socioeconomic situation by cities, by barrels, when we pose to look at them according to the level of studies, what we see there are important differences, important inequalities. I told the councilman some time: eight years of difference between the life expectancy of a city of Sant Cugat and a city of Sant Andreu de la Barca are many years. But also these differences are not only in the indicator of life expectancy, but in all indicators of life styles, self-perception of salvation and in many others that we could go analyzing and degreasing in this inquiry. So we're left with the system's good data in general. We stay with those pointer data, where the system is successful and we can recognize it all, and we can recognize it with data and comparing it with other countries. We're stuck with some good mediums, with some life expectancy indicators that have a very good medium. The comfort, all that character of the system we want: universal right to salvation, fairness in the service, and, obviously, good governance and with a look – which is said to be the very Pla de salut, which is said to be the report of salvation, which is said to be by the World Health Organization – which is not so much an ideological issue – of Drets, lefts–, but says that we must pose [[the speaker shows the camera a full in which a graph is reproduced]] the person in the center, who we have to do policies looking at people, who we have to salute all policies, as the counselor sometimes says, right? That he's not a Sun Health Councillor, but that all this government has to be a Sun Health Councillor, too. And all this with compromise, participation, respect quality not just for a few, but can guarantee it to everyone, and obviously with good governance. And all that is important that we have and that we have committed ourselves to facing and being able to debate at this moment so transcendental of the country and in this hopeful future that we have. With a system that has a good balance, a balance that we can call ‘successful' – but I don't like to be neither co-foist nor triumphalist – between a super-third party that really responds to health problems without asking if you come and trying to guarantee it, plus, with the utmost fairness, providing the system with a network that is close to local hospitals, that don't have many countries... And also with a robust primary, right? , which sees the definition of salvation– of the "state of physical, social, mental welfare"– of the Declaration of Alma-Ata: of primary attention as a strategy to strengthen the salvation of the whole population, with salvation as a socio-economic assumption, it is clearly said that the promotion and protection of salvation is key to the social development of a society. And we must also strengthen that character of the standard mark that we were endowed with at that time, with the Law of 86, of Ernest Lluch, which gave us that we had a universal system not linked to social security contributions; that we had an extensive portfolio of services, and that we had been expanding, also, financed by taxes, therefore, solid from all of society, and that we organized through the LOSC, which allowed us to build this system to benefit those social initiatives that our country had always had and that it has given us and gives us a lot of good results. With a system that we always say we can compare, that has success keys. But what I'm saying is we can't just stick to this, but these examples must also be highlighted. And we saw it the other day in the papers of the Law of Universalization on the subject of transplants, acute myocardial infarction codes, stroke codes: enviable shoots; we have a blood bank and weaves with an organization, also, in which the whole country that I believe is socially involved that is exportable everywhere. But we need to see and we need to analyse and predict what we need to do before all the demands that come to us now from the future and the evolution of the social market: demography, demographic change, aging, chronicity, change in the demand for citizenship, people, being more involved and not so passive in the relationship with the faculty, with the professional and with the same system; a greater involvement of people in decisions about their own salvation; a finding that these social determinants of health, that this 80_per_cent of determinants are not or do not strictly depend on the health system we have, but that these inequalities are shown to us to say that we cannot guarantee the right to remain in the same way. These are the challenges we have in the future, and what we have to try to do is see if the system's organization, health policies, or, better said, health policies, as we currently have them, are capable, without making this transformation or that focus on the person, of facing these challenges. We say that there are many variables that do not depend on the system, but they do affect and wait in the system, and we see it in the emergency services: the change is not within the emergency services, which is required, but the change goes much further and is multifactorial, and it will be found in many parts of the system, and not only in the health system. But are we asking this health system to solve everything, which they directly correspond to and which they don't, or do we have to look at all the fronts? I am in favour of facing this debate with a great deal of depth. We have had a LOSC in the past few years, and there has been this evolution of the social framework, and we are obliged to continue to evolve this framework in the future, and we, from here, the Parliament of Catalonia, are obliged, we are required and all the people that we are here to be committed to providing us with a standard framework and a system that, in the end, is responding to these present and future indicators that we have, despite the fact that the history of our system shows that we have organized ourselves, the normal years, with some laws that have served us, that have endowed us with these good indicators that we have at present, but that, if we are not able to make these transformations that are happening in the past, then, in the future, we do not differ. To do so, we should try to do the same thing that was done to LOSC: find a majority consensus on how we organize our society and our system, and how we do these health policies that fall into these folds, and in future generations and generations that currently need a system that responds to their needs. Would you, counselor, therefore, tell us: how are they facing the same thing, the department, to start working in depth all these aspects that fall into the system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.47.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vergés. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.48.0	Thank you, Madam President. My honourable Member, I thank you for this question, because I believe that the issue you put to the table, in fact, is one of the thickest issues – let me just say this – of this legislature for what you do to health policies. In effect, you were finalizing your reference to the future law of health and social in Catalonia, and, thus, Junts' election program for Yes refers to the need to initiate the process of elaboration of this, of this law. I myself collected this commitment, from the electoral program, in my initial appearance, to the principle of the legislature, to the Health Commission, where we explained the plan for this mandate, and finally this form part of the governance plan. A future law of salvation is a rule so, so important, so relevant, so transcendental for this country that, when it is done, it has to be done from the very maximum solvency, with the maximum solidity, with the utmost rigour. And that means that we need a very deep debate: it is not a law that can be done without proper conditions, it is not a law that can be done at any time or in any way, it is not a law that can be done in a hurry, it is not a law that can be done at the margin, basically, of a great debate, of a great debate of the country, because it is one of the norms on which our welfare system will depend, and therefore this great debate of the country. Therefore, before initiating any legislative process, the process of constructing the future law of salvation of Catalonia – before initiating any legislative process – needs a debate, a debate on which everyone must participate. In this debate we must all take part: from the outset, political actors must obviously take part; planners must take part; experts must take part; the sector must take part, and when we talk about suppliers, we are talking about trade unions, we are talking about professionals, we are talking about health professionals. This debate has to be organized. Therefore, please note that we are already, in a way, explaining the phases of this architectural process that will be the building of the norm that this country needs for its system of salvation. This process has a final phase, which is the final phase, which must be done when the appropriate institutional conditions are in place, which is the strictly legislative phase. It has a pre-eminent phase – of duration, I dare say, indeterminate – that is the phase of this great social debate, where we are invited, in the end, the joint of the country, because part of the sector are the patients, and the 7_million Catalans are potential patients of our health system. Therefore, indeed, it is one of those debates in which all citizens must be able to participate. And from the Department of Health we have understood that there is a phase still ahead of this debate, that this is not the right moment for the social debate to begin on the future legislative process of the law, but we need to think, to do the right thing, this construction process, to do it with all the rigour, that it is to provide all the information, all the diagnostics, all the analysis, all the essentials to be able to make this debate on condition. Because this debate, apart from being a debate where everyone is invited, is an informed debate, and is a well-informed debate. From this diagnosis, which is the diagnosis we have made from the department, which we have made from the government, we have therefore thought that the policy of this process – that it is a compromise, repeated, electoral, and therefore we have to honour our commitments; it is a government policy, we have to honour our government commitments – the policy of this commitment, the rigorous, serious, solvent, solid policy of this process was to facilitate this debate, when it comes to it, to be an informed debate. And to do that, it is to commission some reports to some experts who provide us with basic material from which to start when I respond, when we convince everyone, this debate. First, what do we want? We want a balance sheet of the Order of Salvation Law of Catalonia – of the LOSC –; we do not want to give it « report, in the day a « green book, a green book of the future law of salvation, but in its essence it is a balance of the LOSC. Why? Because it's normal for us to do LOSC balance, because LOSC has done twenty-five years and we need to be able to evaluate it. We must be able to assess it from three points of view. From the point of view of how the passage of time has resisted: it is a law that has been made with great consensus, and that is fairly widespread in a very positive balance. We need to be able to lower this balance to the technical level and analyze the LOSC: who have followed its main forts, who parts of the law have effectively resisted the passage of time, who parts of the law have been out of step. A second part of the LOSC's balance is the identification of those social changes that have occurred during these twenty-five years at the level—the honourable Member said very well—democracy, at the technological level, etc., and, therefore, new regulatory requirements that LOSC could not address in the measure that these new social situations had not yet occurred: LOSC does not deal with any questions, because the world was different twenty-five years ago. Therefore, this balance of the LOSC must also allow us to identify these changes. And, thirdly, to identify also those parts that LOSC does not regulate as we were not before a law of bases – the law of bases, let us remember, was the Law General of Sanitation, of Minister Lluch – and, therefore, to identify also five areas of regulation of a system of salvation, LOSC, in the measure that it was only a law of order, had left the band. This balance of the LOSC has been entrusted to a person who understands that, in the health system of our country, he enjoys a very transversal consensus, because we want this balance of the LOSC to be able to make from this look of transversality, that has been other times required, already, for the Department of Health in the past, that is Dr. Vilardell. He will build the team he considers: we have made this task formally, and he has the autonomy to advise himself on those people he considers, so that he can make this green book of the law of salvation that is essentially a balance of the LOSC twenty-five years later. We wanted this balance of the LOSC to be known to someone who knew the history, someone who had experienced this display of the system of salvation at the length of twenty-five years, who knew what the system before the LOSC was like, and who continued, today, with a prestige and scientific and intellectual authority to make this balance. And in this balance, inevitably, what will appear there are the main debates, the identification – not positioning, but the main debates – with which the future law of salvation will be pronounced. But – and the honourable Member said very well – at these moments we are aware that if something is to be answered by a future law of salvation in Catalonia, it is at the expense of social determinants, the challenge of inequalities in health, immense, which we still have today in Catalonia – like most, not to say all, societies around us – and, therefore, the need for our system of salvation to be able to take this look at social determinants. This is why, in addition, we have commissioned another report from another expert, who believes that he is the highest authority from the academic point of view in the analysis of inequalities in health and in the analysis of inequalities of social determinants, and in the knowledge of whom are public policies, from their integrality, which are necessary to make this work affect the causes of inequalities in health, which is Dr. Vicenç Navarro. Therefore, Dr. Vicenç Navarro and his team were tasked with a _second report, complementary to Dr. Vilardell's report, focused on the analysis of the social determinants of health and public policies that we need to address. I recall that Dr. Vicenç Navarro, like Dr. Vilardell, has both been presidents of the Health Department's council: Dr. Vicenç Navarro was president of the Health Department's council now will make three legislatures, and Dr. Vilardell has been president of the Health Department's council, which, in fact, was the president of the Presidency's council in the last legislature. There is a third report, but time has not allowed me to expose it. If in case I leave him for the second intervention. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.49.0	Thank you, Counselor. It has the word the Lady Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.50.0	Well, second intervention. The same system, its complexity – you have spoken about it –, its organization, its history, everything, everything, everything has marked for us, mostly, the health policy that we have now, that we have been able to develop during these years and that we develop, also, today, when what we need in the future – and we have seen it in everything that has explained to us – is that health policy, or better said, all the health policies, marquin: how does the system have to be? What's the system got to do with it? What does the system have to do? How does he relate to all the agents? How should the governance of this system be, too? In this graph I've let them see before [[the speaker shows the camera a full in which a graph is reproduced]] , where the system is centered on the person, there is salvation to all the policies, which is the rough road, we have the compromise and participation: the compromise is what we have already written, it is what we are doing today, it is what the counselor is explaining to us, to start this process; and the participation is what we are going to do until we have the law of health and social of our country. And you also say good governance, and good governance is not only that the Health Counselor is a good person and does things as best as possible, but that it is how the system is governed, not only the Health Department, but also the Català Health Service, our public health institutions, which are many and powerful, and how we govern in the territories everything that refers to health policies. This debate on governance is a debate that is relevant, and it is a debate that, by taking the words, too, which you have said, we will have to resolve it with solvency, with strength, with rigour, because there will need to be a political consensus that supports everything we decide. It's a country debate: it's not just about how we organize a small part of things that affects a small part of the population, but the right to salvation we want to guarantee for everyone; therefore, it's a country debate. It's a debate about the welfare system we'll have in the future, as you said yourself, and this one we have to do this way. The LOSC created the Cat Salut – the Català Health Service – with a triple role, which many times we have questioned until how far the role that the Cat Salut had in the different levels was quite separate. The standard mark is also often accused of being a loose one over the same system when it should be the opposite: it should not be the ally, it should not be the enhancer, it should be the one that makes it develop, the one that allows it to transform to adapt to each of the reptes that await us at each corner. And we don't just have a commitment to set up a standard framework that allows us to complete with these expectations, but they also force us to do so, even if you say so, that it is the demographic changes, the social changes, the technological changes, that, whether they please the system or not, are giving to all the spheres of our society and that they have transformed the same society, the same people's demands, and that they require us to make this transformation. All this is what we're going to be working on in the future. I am glad that you are leading all these debates by trying to make this green paper on the legislation we currently have, on the standard mark we currently have; that it is a report, too, on inequalities in salvation, because they really are there, and we do not want a country that is marked by these inequalities, but we want a country that can guarantee the right to salvation in the most equal way possible. And the question is whether, at present, this standard framework is the most important for dealing with these challenges of the future, which we will not change, and as they also see, these cross-cutting, cross-sectoral, cross-cutting policies – this approach to chronicity, all aspects of mental health, but also all attention to health – from system governance, from institutional governance, from decision-making, also to territory – as we organize each of the territories with all health facilities – but also to all the social and community spheres that will be integrated into these macro-health policies. Therefore, we need consensual goals, shared goals, assessed goals, and governance that responds to being able to fulfill these goals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.51.0	Thank you, Mrs Vergés. There's the word the Comin advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.52.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. In effect, when one thinks of the need to iron, to renew the standard mark, therefore, to have a law of salvation, we identify that it has a very special focus on the analysis of inequalities in salvation. There is another more instrumental focus, not of a sociological context, which also has its specific complexity, which is the challenge of governance, because our health model – it explained very well – has a great virtue, which is its complexity: this role of planner, financier, but also owners, of the Catalan Health Service. But in the classical academic debate, the division of functions between the main and the people, we understand that the Català Health Service is in the two cantons, in the main canton and in the people's canton: it has its EPICs and does the planning. And, therefore, there is a need to organize governance at the macro level of our health system, so that this division of functions is well established. Therefore, there is a debate that is constantly in the day-to-day life of our health system about this division of functions, this hypothetical conflict of interests between the main and the people, which was then reproduced at a lesser macro level. We also have a debate, in this sense, about the role of the local world in governance. What is the role of public institutions – not the Government of the Generality – in governance? Because our history has given in the parliaments and the assemblies one more, historically, in the policies, in the health institutions, right? , that only the gatherings remain at these times. And here we also have to get this right. And the issue of governance confronts us, when we think about it at micro level – when we think about it at micro level – in the face of transparency and accountability. Why, in the end, are we talking about the three things now, huh? : how we plan, how we finance, how we manage, which paper have the different public institutions – Government of the Generality, local power – in this management and governance, and how we retain accounts, how we manage, not only to guarantee efficiency, which is a basic requirement of management and governance at micro level, but also the retention of accounts and transparency. And that's why it seemed to us that, in the same way that beyond the LOSC balance and the identification of the main themes of the future law – that it is the object of the first task that has been done to Dr. Vilardell –, beyond the identification of social determinants today in Catalonia, and for the next few years, of inequalities in health and public policies that must accompany a system of health to fight against inequalities in health – that is the task of the second report –, requires a specific report on governance. Like we've done in the other themes, we've been looking for the best. In the three themes, honourable Member, we have been looking for those that are today recognized academically and internationally as the great referents – as the great referents. This is why we have asked Professor Manel Peiró of ESADE to report on governance in the three levels: macro level, meso level and micro level. [[Some applause.]] We're talking – we're talking – about an expert on health governance issues of sufficient prestige. We are talking – we are talking – about people who, either by their experience in the health system or by their academic trajectory, are today identified as quite undisputed experts and, what is more important, who have between them an intellectual and academic recognition contrasted and public, because we are talking about reports that must be complementary reports. We are talking about people who have shared the councillor, who is a public body of the Department of Health, who have been sharing the councillor of the Department of Health, I insist. Professor Navarro was President of the Health Department Council in the past, Dr Vilardell was President of the Health Department Council, in this case the Government, when he was raised to the Presidency level, in the past, and Professor Manuel Peiró was a member of the Health Department Council. We are talking about complementary reports. We're talking about recognizable experts. We are talking about experts who respect each other, which I hope will continue to identify in your value, this mutual respect that these experts have among them. And we are talking, in the end, about laying the groundwork for a task that year 91 was not impossible, and that I hope it is not impossible in the future, that it is the construction, from responsibility and country visit, of a parliamentary consensus that allows us to make the future regulations of salvation that the country will need with the same level of consensus that LOSC held at its time. If the political groups of the year 91 had been mature enough to understand that such an important law could be done by consensus, and, therefore, the year 91 the LOSC was approved with the votes of the PP, Convergence, Unió, Esquerra Republicana, Initiativa and USA – that they were parliamentary groups, certainly different...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.53.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.54.0	... Initiative and EU – if at that time this was possible, I hope that in the future, which will not be this legislature, the parliamentary groups have the same altitude of sights and that also...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.55.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.56.0	...we can make the future law of salvation for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.57.0	The fifteenth point of the order of the day. [[Question to the Government on the balance of the first year of the adoption of Resolution 17/XI, on the social emergency situation, economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response]] [[300-00141/11]] It is: an inquiry to the Government on the balance of the first year of the approval of Resolution 17/XI, on the situation of social emergence, economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response, presented by the Catalonian Parliamentary Group Yes it is Pot. To expose her, has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.58.0	Thank you, Madam President. He will advise, you know, five years ago, with the votes of the People's Party and Convergence and Union, a labor reform was approved that has had brutal effects on the working people, especially on women, in the form of more precarious work, degradation of wages, affluence of collective bargaining. At the same time, they put fiscal consolidation policies on the line, which is the kind way in which you referred to social benefits retailing, sale of public assets, privatizations. They are political, all these, approved of Europe, Spain and Catalonia by parties that today are part of the Government, and, to ours, they are the main cause of the brutal rise of inequality, of the extreme poor, of the poor child. In order to face this reality, the groups of the Socialist Party of Catalonia and Catalonia Yes, it is possible to push, now a year ago, the Social Emergencies Plenary, a plethora in which many commitments have been made, and we believe that one year later it is essential to make a political balance of its compliment, which, in our view, is clearly insufficient to be self-sufficient. I'm sure the councilwoman will make a list of complete commitments, and we won't have any trouble recognizing what happened. But we're a long way away – a long way away – from being able to make a positive balance. And this clearly requires making a political balance of depth that promotes a retention of accounts, that avoids compromises in a range of good proposals, and above all our will is to give a hint to his compliment. That is why we have already announced that the first point of our motion will be asking for an extraordinary ple so that the government will be accountable to the Parliament, and above all because it intends to resolve what has been a lack of political follow-up to these commitments. I remember: only two meetings of the follow-up committee in one year, and an unwarrantedly optimistic appreciation of the web page, and above all, above all, with many post-truths, we would say, because we wear incompliments with the current concept, or simply value that an 83_per_cent of the commitments have been completed, because in this 83_per_cent include all those policies that require specific funding, even though it has not been done absolutely anything, and they say with compliments, meaning doubt is something like post-truth. Among the most significant incompliments we have all those that make reference to the combination of the minimum income of insertion, the guaranteed income of citizenship, the basic income, were part of a block; or, for example, the themes of food for certain collections; or the point number 29.e, referring to the topic of energy poverty, where you give to complete this agreement for the fact that we have an agreement, a model of agreement, with electrical companies, when, except that you have denied me today, for the time being, with concrete relation to electrical companies, we do not have any agreement signed. It's not our intention to make it a complete balance, it can't be done in two minutes. That is why, I insist, we ask, and I hope that you, and the group that gives you support, Together for the Yes, agree that the Parliament is monogratically debating this issue. All the way ahead, which is the reason for this question, that our appreciation is that the resolutions of the Social Emergencies Plenary have not been a priority of this government. And to be sure, there is an explanation, which is not a justification: you are so rich in your full path of the divides that you have no energy, as in government, to dedicate to the situations of social emergence. And that has a certain logic – I insist, it's not justification but it's logical –: we all have a limited working ability in institutions, and if we start with some things we won't be able to address others. And in this sense I honestly believe that its full route, with its different mutant varieties, is acting like a real eucalyptus plantation on Catalan politics: it is absorbing all available energies and I fear that it is leaving the herm land. And in this sense, we believe, it is absolutely essential that this Parliament give a boost to the compliment of the resolutions of the Social Emergencies Assembly because we cannot continue to talk about certain things while situations of extreme poverty continue to be installed in our society without the fact that, in important respects, not a single millimetre has been advanced. And from this point of view I want to put emphasis on a question that seems to us to be relevant: the whole issue concerns the minimum income of insertion and the establishment of the conversion into guaranteed income of citizens. I think this is a paradigmatic case of how you are acting: Join the Yes with the support of the CUP in a few moments. You have made every effort to develop, in this social aspect, the disconnection of a state structure like that of the Catalan Social Protection Agency – certainly, that it is sometimes a law of disconnection and sometimes it is an autonomous law, but this is something on the fringe. In change, all the effort in structures, in readings in gestures, in images, but all that makes reference to the better of the minimum income of insertion and to the inn in the margin of the guaranteed income of citizenship, all the warmest is to the water, is as it is a year ago and is the same as in the previous legislature from this point of view. Many meetings have taken place, it is true, but the reality of the beneficiaries has not changed: the access to guaranteed minimum income has not improved and the guaranteed income of citizens has not been set aside at the moment. And he didn't stand in the way, you might say, "because the parliamentary groups, don't-know-what... no, no. Miri, at this time there has been a clear disapproval of your government in the Lower Council. He had the guaranteed income of citizenship practically an agreement in the promoter's commission with Constellera Bassa, and you have disauthorized it. This is the only way to understand that, for example, there is a going back to a key issue, which is the recognition of the universal character as the right objective of guaranteed citizenship income. Listen, let's do one thing: because I continue to feel something available to the presuppositional existences of every moment, no, this continues to be installed in care. And we don't do it ourselves, there are unions with a very strong communication. It has been said by entities such as Caritas, Mans Unides, Christianity and Justice, Justicia and Pau, who have clearly warned about the dramatic situation and the inadequacy of the government's proposal. Another aspect. The same could be said on the subject of poor energy, where, listen, the result is quite painful, from this point of view. And for what it does to infant feeding, I have to clearly recognize that it has advanced in the matter of primary feeding, but it has not reached all infants who need it. A few days ago, it was a public fact that social entities had to rely on up to 7,500 scholarships for under-school children that the Government still did not protect. Especially hard is the subject of high school nursing scholarships, which has not yet begun to be important. And it's heartwarming that you have decided or announced that, with regard to the 0-3 year educational stage, the government does not intend to complete anything: the point 40.and does not exist, for the government. Disobedience to the Parliament, but on the subject of groceries. What can't be is that, besides, the government-- Miri, there's one thing I think you need to get out of this report quickly. Considering that children's right to food can be solved by offering gouts from bed to school. No, no, it's not possible. She'll advise you, I've known her for a long time and I know that you don't defend returning to the time of social welfare, but, look, I recognize that there are 51,000 children who require you to go to school and that you are refusing to push forward a tax reform, I think you should make them look ashamed of what you're doing here. The poor is not a charity struggle, the poor is a solidary struggle, and that requires fiscal policies, and in turn you are denying that those who pay the most to meet the needs of those who need it the most. These are the things we want to put in place. You say – I'm sure you'll tell me – "There are things that are pending from the presuppositional availabilities. Yes, yes, but, look, fortunately we already have the balance of the year 2016, and we already know, for example, that the extended assumption with which it could not be done has contained modifications of 2,365,7_million euros between extensions of credit, transfers of credit and generations of credit. Home, fuelling the premise in 2,300_millions and not having money to address these situations is to have a few dubious priorities, from this point of view. Well, that's what we want to make clear, because there's money to do some things – we can talk about it later: High School, Fira 2000, Circuit de Catalunya – and, on the other hand, there's nothing else to do about it. But I also end by referring to a question: there are resolutions of the Social Emergencies Plenary containing commitments of better management, change of model, inn in a range of projects that do not require special resources. And some of you have made them, it is true, but I want to put emphasis on a flagrant failure: this Parliament has approved an annual report on social progress and a debate in this Parliament, and you consider this compromise to be complete because Vice President Junqueras has given an autobomb party presenting a number of economic notes. Listen, this can't be done to us, it's that they take our hair, us and the citizen of this country. No, no: Councillor Junqueras, the Vice-President, has to come here to account for the situation of social progress, inequality and poverty in this country on the basis of a report. And that can't wait for graceful kalendas, because it doesn't have to be that you don't make reports on the subject of the national transition, perfectly legitimate, but also devote a little time to the reports on the social issues that the people saw. Well, all of this, she will advise, is that we ask her that this inquiry is used because you understand that it is essential, an extraordinary ple, which I hope you will approve, to account for these commitments that we all made a year ago in relation to the social emergence of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.59.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. The word "Mrs. Neus Munté", adviser to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.60.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Deputy Coscubila, actually it's today, March 9th, which was a year ago that we celebrated the Monographic Plenary on the situation of social emergence to which you referred. And of course this inquiry will serve some purpose if we are able to say things for his name and to value in his fair measure the impact of everything that was approved in that Pleth and in Resolution 17/XI, and the work and effort that this Government has accomplished: a resolution formed by eighty-two points with 273 measures, in which I assure him that we have worked intensely. Twelve months in which we have passed without a new assumption, with a presuppositional extension. This is the first element I want to refer to, because this is not a pretext or an excuse, it is a reality: some assumptions that were not able to approve the year 2016, the exact year in which it was celebrated this monographic plethora and, therefore, all these measures were approved. And we are waiting to be able to approve new accounts that contain more than €1,100_million that are intended for social investment; therefore, one, of course, important injection in order to be able to develop all these measures more quickly. Twelve months in which we have submitted six follow-up reports, every two months, on a timely basis on the 20th of each month, because this is the concrete compromise that we have assumed and that we have voted all folded in this same resolution. And, yes, two follow-up committee meetings where there are members of the government, parliamentary groups, entities, industry professionals, unions and municipal authorities. Twelve months when, as in the government, we have given our face and we have spoken openly of everything that we can do despite the fact that we suppose an important effort taking into account the context of the presuppositional prorogation, but not assuming that we would not deceive anyone, and that we would not generate expectations that after that we could not complete, because we know about it, because we have suffered a lot in the past, and we have suffered in aspects that are very high, such as, for example, the Law of Dependence – it is not a clear case. But also twelve months, as I said, in which we have worked valiantly. And you were talking to me about the groceries – then I'll make reference to it –; you're not the most obvious case: even if we don't have a new premise, we've raised a lot of resources, more than ever, to be able to give out the concrete needs of these students and their families; also from the teaching camp, as far as inclusive school is concerned, to be able to provide more teachers with the centres of high complexity. You said, "We don't think we're having an exhaustive relationship, but it's obvious that if we're talking about this resolution, we need to talk about concrete examples, those we've been able to move forward and those we've been able to move forward. In any case, as we have been working with, and that we are updating as the degree of compliment: eight of each of your measurements or are already finished or in progress, because there are measures, you must agree with me, that we cannot position them as endings as they have a permanent execution – this for a band. I would also like to be able to move forward that we will be in a position to reassemble the committee on the 21st of April, bearing in mind that we will already have the latest update, which, with every two_months, I insist, will be hung on the web on time. You said: "This resolution has not been a priority for the government. So, I'm sorry, I can't help but agree: there has been a resolution that we have all given to, obviously also parliamentary groups, all of them, a great relief – and it deserves, I would just miss it –: from thorough follow-up, from internal work and from explanations, I insist, and transparency with which we have been reporting the degree of solace. You spoke of the needy food, the struggle against the poor child; in fact, it is one of the areas and one of the lines, surely, most important of this resolution. I remind you that we have also approved the new model of socio-educational intervention service for children and adolescents at risk, that we have allocated €5.1 million to social emergency aid, and I insist on highlighting all the work that has been done in the area of catering. Let me just put some data on it. Prior to 2011, mensor scholarships that were not guaranteed and that now have all the situations that occurred during the course and give coverage to the hundred_per_cent of the needy with us shields, changing the index of sufficiency so as to extend, precisely, the universe of beneficiaries of scholarships, because we understood that this was absolutely essential. We have never spent so much money on scholarships in this country; we cannot say this with pride, you must understand that I do not say this from a co-foist perspective, but if it is necessary, and that is because the data on the child's poverty are indicated to us, so it is clear that the resources must be allocated primarily here, as I believe we have clearly done. In addition, in the field of teaching, there were 409 teachers in high-complexity centres and centres in disadvantaged circles to be able to reduce the rates, which is also where they are clearly asked from the educational community. And, as you know, the presuppositions pending to approve enguany incorporate 140_million additional euros precisely to raise the template of masters. In the field of salvation – we spoke a while ago, in a previous inquiry – so remarkable facts have been sunk. The Law of Universalization of Health Care, which has already been approved at the level of government, and new instruments which also, without any doubt, must contribute in this sense. I quote the Pla de salut à Catalunya, the Pla stratègique de recherche et innovation en salut, the Pla director of emergencies or the Pla stratègique d'atenzione primaria et salut communautaire. Haven't we made enough progress on waiting lists? Obviously, the 2016 assumptions also contained an important presuppositional injection; they were not approved. You were talking to me a while ago that..., or advanced that the first point of the motion following this inquiry will be the petition, the request of an extraordinary new ple. I would say to him: "Mr. Coscubala, we speak as much as we need all the questions related to the social situation of this country and the most disadvantaged collectivities. Will you approve the premise because we have more resources to deal with all these needs? Because, if not, that's a little fish that moves the cua. The priorities are clearly marked by this government, not only in the resolution that we are now discussing, also in its plan of government, which came from an electoral program where a social plan of soc social was highlighted in bold. The assumptions foreseen for the year 2016 provide the necessary money for the long term social security plan. The assumptions aren't approved. Will they work together, will you contribute to having us presupposed this year 2017 so that we can complete with a more zealous yet, with more punctuality still, with more force still those resolutions and everything that arose, too, from parliamentary mandates? Well, I hope so. You were talking about the minimum income for insertion, the guaranteed income for citizens. He knows perfectly well the debates that have taken place in this chamber, he knows the work that is taking place since the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families so that he can agree on a new model of guaranteed citizenship income. But you also know perfectly well that you have allocated 173_million euros more, to the minimum income of insertion, which has allowed you to benefit 72,500 people; a minimum income of insertion and associated insertion policies that are seen to be increased, if the assumptions of 2017 are approved, in 115_million euros. I believe that we are talking about figures that are not people – people, people – who are less likely, Mr Coscubiela, and that it is worth it, if we are talking about minimum income of insertion, to say everything: to talk also about what we are absolutely complete, that it is to allocate more resources to minimum income of insertion, waiting, logically, to be able to agree on a model of guaranteed income of citizenship that is sustainable from an economic point of view. This is what we are trying to do, and we are neither disauthorizing anyone nor wasting time: we are trying to find the disloyalizer so that we can guarantee services, support, too, from an orientation point of view to people who have a high, very high, vulnerable situation, and not generate siren songs or toasts to the sun that after that do not absolutely serve for nothing. He was talking about the social welfare plan, a social welfare plan that we predicted and that we quantified in 285_million euros, which precisely highlighted some of these aspects: the minimum income of insertion; the waiting lists, also the area of dependence, on, and not having resources associated with a new premise, we have increased what represent the places in residence; Bars plate, poor energy. In poor energy, therefore, I must say to you – you also know, Mr Coscubala – that we are making great efforts to maintain all the pressure, working at the expense of the subcontractors so that we can have the maximum number of tools available for people who see themselves affected by this social scourge. And there was no mention of the habitation, where you forgot to say that we had to reformulate a law, a law that was good, that fell to us by the Constitutional Court at the instigations of the People's Party, the Government of the State. And we have to work on a new law of housing rights protection, but above all, we have been able to increase economic housing aid to people at risk of losing it. And this we have done, too, in the context of a very harsh presuppositional prorogation. I will continue on the next return trying to respond to other demonstrations that you have made.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.61.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.62.0	Thank you, Madam President. As I said, she will advise: we do not have any type of problem with recognizing the things that have been done, and, moreover, we feel satisfied, because we pushed them forward we promote this Plethora of Emergency. But you are situated in an optimism that the data do not confirm. But let's get into the matter about the presuppositional limits. I return to say: 2016, there have been movements in the presupposition of 2,036_millions. You have closed this deposit with more tickets than you had expected when you presented the unapproved deposit of 2016. I want to insist on one important thing from this perspective: sanitation. Sanitary: The premise has practically closed with more than 1,000_million of the extended premise, and in change you say that this could not be used to reduce the waiting lists. Do you know what Mr. Pere Aragones told us when we put him in "why Fira 2000 and not other social measures? We came to say – it is in the record of that appearance – that with the assumption extended from 2015 to 2016 commitments with Fira 2000 of 2017 had been paid in advance. Next, can you pay commitments with Fira 2000 of 2017 and can't you do certain things? That's what we're putting him up to. In relation to the assumptions. Miri, I'll give you a first: we're willing to vote for them. Just call... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. It is just that you vote for our tax reform, which would allow your assumptions not to be left on paper mullat but that there are economic resources to be able to finance them. Because, let's not be mistaken: you can't make social policies if there's not enough tax receipts, because then we're going to go into school for 51,000 infants that you recognize you need at these times until you get back to school. Do you really think that a country can stand from this point of view? Guaranteed citizenship: I wear it like I wear it, I can't hold it. We have already advanced that this would be a universal right, and it turns out that now the government says no, that 2018 cannot guarantee the universal right. Listen, a guaranteed income of citizenship that does not follow a subjective right and continuous universal access is an assistance service under the conditions of the premise. That's not possible, that doesn't mean advancing anything. And I remind you that this is pending from the previous legislature. That's why we insist: the government's priority is not the social emergency situation in the country, because, if not, with this assumption, there are envelope resources to find mechanisms to finance this guaranteed income of citizenship. I haven't forgotten about housing. I am not inconvenient with recognizing the advisability of Law 4/2016, which, of course, has to be reformed after the Constitutional judgment. Certainly, the best thing I can do to reverse this law is that you, the previous government, the « Government of the best, was charged with the law of the friend Salvador Milà. Yes, yes, because the first one you did when you arrived at the government was to destroy that law through the omnibus issue. Fortunately, some aspects have been recovered. It is not possible that assemblies that have fewer resources than the Generality, assemblies that are more asphyxiated, that are the ones that have suffered with many difficulties this situation, have more ability to dedicate to their social emergencies than the Government of the Generality. They only get along because there are other priorities in these joints, in all of them. And from this point of view, I would like to stress that our will now is not just to manifest those things that do not work, our will now is very clearly to ask you to commit, in this second intervention, that the Government has no problem in comparing in this Parliament one year after making a political balance of this issue. Because it didn't work. It's true: you make a balance every two months, the pengen and you have things like what I put on it. They say: « Compliment of 83_per_cent, and in this 83_per_cent of compliment they complete all the measures that depend on financing: « With us hanging from the assumption, we consider that we have already completed them. No, 83_per_cent is not complete, so we ask you to make a political debate in depth. You're afraid of rape in your childhood. "Listen," you say, "we're not happy because we've studied it and we're asking how many groups of work, I don't know how many... It's okay, but at the moment, what cost us people who aren't on the subject of the Marists' quarrel, deu-n'hi, for sexual abuse. And, of course, they continue to hold the concert with choices that have clearly proved that they have not fulfilled their obligations to protect the children who were under them. Sometimes, less study and more action, from that perspective. And here we could talk about sensellarisme. Listen, okay, fine, but one example: Barcelona. Barcelona, the Barcelona Assembly brings 30_millions to the fight against sensellarism, and the Generality puts in a hundred_million_euros. Look, it's just that you're... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, for the same... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, but of course, it's that, I'm sorry, this is not competence from the perspective of the assemblies alone, it's competence and responsibility of all administrations. From that perspective, I insist. Miri, you don't understand that as a toilet. I, if you will, agree with the following: I recognize you that you have done good things, you recognize me that there are many things going on and that we require a plethora to make political balance and to give another impetus to the measures taken. We need this Parliament to give a new impetus, and the way is to make an extraordinary ple on this issue. We're talking about so many things that they don't really feel – and I'm not talking about the process right now, what's up with it, huh? – and many things between us, that better than being able to discuss the situation of social emergence and how we give a impetus to the compliments of these commitments...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.63.0	Mr. Coscubala, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.64.0	...Miri, just ask him this: tell us that yes, that yes to come here and make this debate again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.65.0	Mr. Coscubala, you've run out of time. Thank you very much. There's the word Constellera Neus Munté.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.66.0	Madam President, we are debating in your parliamentary office, neither do I take this as an attack, nor do you see that we are going to the defensive. What I am trying, precisely, is to explain, to give all the data that may be necessary, beyond the actualization of the degree of compliment that we take every two_months and the follow-up meetings of this. You said before: "We've known each other for years. So, as we've known each other for years, she knows perfectly well that my attitude is never a triumphalist, nor a cophoist, nor a conformist. But I'm not going to help situate or reinforce a report that's perverse that this is a impoverished society that's immersed in misery, because it's not like that. While there are the poor taxes that exist in Catalonia and that among all of us are not acceptable, for the model of country we want and for the resources we generate, this government will remain, as it has done before, and as it does now and as it will continue to do, so that it can reduce these poor taxes. And this implies – you must be perfectly in agreement with me, I suppose also in this – a whole series of actions in many directions, also from the point of view of economic recovery and, therefore, to generate confidence in investors, to attract foreign investment and to take care of those commitments, which you have made reference to some, I could speak of others – that they have this virtue of being able to generate greater occupation and economic activity, because, finally, the policies that are aimed at people, social policies, depend on the generation of wealth, I suppose that in this you must also agree. Shooting... I went back so I could talk about some concrete questions to which you referred. Home, don't tell me that in sensellarism is not happening and that we have opened... We have opened a game, it's an open game that works for the first time to be able to work in this matter. He said before: "In the matter of dependence..., therefore, look, without any presupposition, but an action plan to create 1,500 new places of residence. I don't think that's what we need either. Look, the levels of welfare that we would want are the levels that are comparable to other European countries. In order to be in this medium, we would have to increase the assumption, for example, of the Department of Education in a 87_per_cent; or the Department of Health in a 55_per_cent, or the Department of Social Protection in a 53_per_cent. You know perfectly well that Catalonia is a country that generates enough resources to have a welfare state far more powerful than what we have, but that our funding has not been linked to the GDP or to the tax that Catalans pay. Know that we are the third autonomous community that most resources generate and, in change, the penultimate in real resources discards. He knows perfectly well that every year we lose, by fiscal deficit, the 8_percent of the country's wealth, that it is exactly the equivalent of all the investment we make in Salut, Education and Social Welfare and Families; that our tax agency is responsible only for the 5_percent of the taxes that are generated in Catalonia, and, still, the Generality's assumption in terms of social investment has increased its weight and increased from 67,8_per_cent, the year 2010, to 74,8_per_cent, which we expect and want to be able to place in the presupposition foreseen for this year 2017. The assumption of the 16th, which was not able to deal with, increased the social expenditure by 875_million euros; the one of 2017, in 1,355 – before it spoke to it of 1,100, and in reality it is 1,355. In any case, Mr Coscubiela, we are obliged to give all possible explanations of the set of measures included in the resolution and, not to say it, in the manner in which this Parliament decides, as always; to give all the explanations, to make more follow-up meetings, to explain in its set or in a monogram the aspects that convince. It would just be missing, and that is also part of the parliamentary debate and the majority that is in line with this chamber. Therefore, from this point of view, you say: "Say yes. I say yes to the one who approves of this chamber, and for us there will be no problem. But I also say it – and I say it – to have a good welfare state, to have much more resources, which is what we want, to be able to allocate them to these objectives, we are convinced, this government and also the parliamentary group that supports it, that the best way, the best formula is to have a good state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.67.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Munté. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into security policies]] [[302-00117/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on security policies presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose it, has the word Mr. Alberto Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.68.0	Thank you, President. I am convinced that we will have a much calmer, quieter debate. And, first of all, I would like to thank all the groups, therefore, for their willingness to try to reach a consensus on the motion, all without exception. And, well, the truth is that in the end we presented this motion because, as we said in the inquiry, we understood that the police have lived two complicated years to try to maintain the good image of the security forces in Catalonia. It has been very easy for some groups and groups to trivialize or question all the actions carried out by the security forces and bodies. That is why from the People's Group we understood that it was appropriate to present this motion with the intention of making a recognition to the work of all the bodies and security forces that act in Catalonia, and when I say "all, they are all: Mossos d'Esquadra, Guardia Civil, Police Nacional, Police locales, Guardia Urbana, Police Portuaria and Customs agents. But we also came to the conclusion, with other groups, that it was important to include rural actors, who do a very important job of monitoring and prevention in the rural and agrarian environment of Catalonia, and also prison officials, who do social work of prevention and surveillance with great professionalism and with great respect for the prison population with which they work. But let's get back to the security corps. In democracy, his role, his work is of vital importance. They are the ones who guarantee that we can exercise our rights freely and safely. They ensure that good coexistence in public space is the best possible. They are the ones who, with their presence, make us feel safer in our streets or cities. Who's a cop on the street bothering? Only the one who tries to break the law. And it ensures that the laws in force are complied with and respected. And the security corps, all, and in all surveys, always have a very good rating as a public service offered by the Administration. They must therefore be part of our collective pride and more as Members of this Parliament. But, moreover, and now more than ever, they are a fundamental part of the defence of our democracy. We have a constant and latent danger, such as the threat of international terrorism, jihadist terrorism. And precisely because of that work and responsibility they have, you have to let them work quietly, without making any ambiguous or generic accusation that undermines their image upon them. And, therefore, from time to time, you have to make the public recognition you deserve. Acknowledgment that, for example, on the one hand, it would come by recognizing them some of their labour rights, whatever the administration is, and, in this case, in the Mossos d'Esquadra, a clear example would be not to maintain Article 48 of the Law on Measures, for example. Or public and symbolic recognitions like today, because the police deserve all our admiration, all our respect and let them work with peace and freedom. And, therefore, respect and dignity for our police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.69.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.70.0	Thank you, President. Well, good morning, deputies and deputies. Mr. Villagrasa, you have completely changed the whole thing, it seems that you make use of an almost self-esteem of the body and the security forces. We want to refocus the debate or set it up as a model policy debate key. That's why we made him the puzzle we made him, and our puzzle was key to recognizing the security features, as well as the functioning of education, sanitation, etc. Our goal was to hear security as a right, as a broad concept, as a multidisciplinary concept, as a contradictory approach to his motion: the paradigm that derives from his motion is a narrow, strictly police and criminal approach to security; a logical understanding that power is restricted to institutions, the judiciary and the boards of directors of certain enterprises, which hold power. And you understand police bodies as those mechanisms that maintain these status quo dynamics, an analysis that is quite consistent with the history of the configuration of security bodies in the Spanish State: security objects that are not etzibades, in a disorderly and highly related to the configuration of power in modern times in the Spanish State, a power that goes from the decree of New Plant to the Old Regime, to the monarchy of Alfonso XII and the alternation of power parties, always – always, always – with the aim of maintaining the privileges of political and economic elites. And when the Spanish State has had the will, the intention and the action to break the Tableau, as in the First and Second Republic, the answers have always been from authoritarianism: Bourbon Restoration and Franco dictatorship. In fact, I let'mcitar here, today, the professor of constitutional law Pérez Royo, who speaks of the Transition as the new Restoration, and he argues it said that they are maintaining the power relations of the army and of the Church, and of the same political elites that held power during the Franco dictatorship. Yesterday, my company Benet Salellas made a brilliant analysis of the judicial model, he talked about a scroll where they wrote texts but we never finished erasing the old, a species of miracle game to maintain the privileges. That's the perspective we're applying to your young lady. And it's obvious that in this paradigm that you're planting police bodies like maintaining power relations and the status quo – and I'd like you to listen to me – in this paradigm that you're planting at your youth, it's obvious that political dissent, the question of the status quo or the mere democratic criticism of a rule that isn't just a problem, and you're treating it as a problem. Why? Because they disassemble the castle of logical authority. We plant the totally opposed model. We understand security as well as welfare, security as a right, and, in addition, the security features, as those mechanisms that should be thought of as guarantors of the needs of the popular classes in the claus de beaustar. And we also understand these needs and benefits that are very linked to the right to criticism and the right to dissent, as well as the existence of mechanisms to control human rights violations. We understand that it is desirable and essential, in a democratic framework, that all of this exists. And, of course, from this perspective, the equation that you do doesn't work. The equation of drawing, as you did in the previous inquiry, the CUP as an anti-police party, as a game almost like a demon with pots, violent, etc., which is the reason for which you have to recognize security things, does not work. In fact, proof of unravelling this equation is that we govern various assemblies and there are police units that are managed. We understand, in this sense, that the CUP, more than a problem is the symptom, the symptom that you are obsessed with being systematically talking about self-esteem, to say the least, of police bodies, and we link it directly to your imperative need to guarantee privileges and order. And, finally, I let it be said that to the Catalan countries, and also to the conjunction of the Spanish State, it has been a while since the throne rule, because this regime is extremely unfair, and you and your party, and the government that now governs the Spanish State, respond with more hard and authoritarianism, authoritarianism that can also read to the rest of Europe, if you push the extreme right, push racism and push xenophobia. Leave me, to finish, Madam President, because I already know I'm out of time, quoting a very famous phrase from Gramsci. He says: "The old world is dead, the new one is late in appearing, and the monsters rise to the shadows. From us it is necessary to counter to monsters the hope of political projects to build, and not dark shadows of hand and authoritarianism. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.71.0	Thank you, Mrs Vehi. Next, has the word Mr Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.72.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, he wanted to greet the trade union representation of various trade unions from Mossos d'Esquadra that are accompanying us to the hemicicle today. This house is your home. Those who believe that the State is the expression of the ruling class are convinced that the structures of a state are neither good nor painful, serve the class that dominates this state. What we are in a different state and in another paper of the popular classes, we have to think that this dream is built today, not in the future, from what we have at this time. And in Catalonia, our bombers, our cops, our nurses, and so many people who are building this country, when we have the Catalan Republic we want, will be our doctors, our nurses, our cops and our bombers. And we don't have to wait for the future, we already have them here, they're already with us and they're already building with us the country we want. I think that it is important to place it on the table, because, if there is any doubt, the future will not be worth it: we will continue to make mistakes today, and always – always – we will have to make self-criticism, and it is good that we do it sometimes, too, today itself. The public services of our country are a basic and fundamental state structure, because it allows us to guarantee the rights of Catalans and Catalans, and that is why we have always been opposed to their privatisation and their outsourcing, because it is a good that we already have, and therefore we have to take care of it. It is clear that the public servers of security, their various futures – because they are not only the Squadron Mosses, they may be the most famous in Catalonia, but we have many other public servers of security – they are a key professional segment to guarantee public security policies, which is also a right that we have Catalans and Catalans. Therefore, we support these professionals. We know that her work is complex and beech, and when there are presuppositional details, it's more complex and it's more beech. Therefore, we support them – and I finish – because we are already building with them and with them the republic of the future. Thank you very much. We will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.73.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Next, the words of Ms. Montserrat Fornells, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.74.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, assistant unions here today in public, very good morning to everyone. We are in front of a People's Party movement that raises things of common sense and logic that could not be presented in its parliament because it recognizes the professionalism of public workers, in this case in the field of security, it is obvious, and the Government and the Councillor have manifested it on various occasions in their parliament, both in the committees and in the plenary. We are all aware of the good task of security forces in our country and, obviously, we have no problem in showing support and recognition to their professionalism to fight for the rights and freedoms of Catalans and Catalans. At the same time, I would also like to highlight the great task of all the public service professionals in this country, both in the area of sanitation and teaching, of the different departments of the Generality and local administrations, which make it possible for us to have high-quality public services, and also indirectly to facilitate and help to ensure that there is better security in our country, such as teachers, with good education, or emergence services, too, so as to ensure that there is good security, and that they do not consist of this young man. A couple of years ago the government approved the code of the police of Catalonia, a tool aimed at promoting good practices and prestige of the body. From specific recognitions of the body and its members to the length of the year they get pregnant on various occasions; a clear example is the Day of Teams. Mr. Villagrasa, if you want to make a recognizance of the body, ask the Minister of the Interior of your political party, Mr. Zoido, who once and for all summons the Security Board, which is not meeting since the year 2009, and who pays the accumulated debt of state financing for the deployment of the Mossos. And so, with more resources, you could hear the demands that are made by the body and the unions, such as renewing their clothes and materials. Finally, to end, to reiterate that this young man is of common sense and a toast to the sun. Unfortunately, we will support it, because we recognize the professionalism of these public workers. As it has already been specified, from our group we have presented some papers that have been accepted, together with a transaction with the paper presented by Catalonia Yes it is Pot. I would like to end by saying that this Saturday 11 March, two-quarters of a time, in the natural reserve of Mas de Melons, in Castelldans, there will be an institutional act in memory of the two rural agents killed in service, to which I invite everyone to attend. Thank you so much and good morning to everyone. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.75.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fornells. To fix his position, Mr. Carlos Sánchez of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.76.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Counselor, deputies, deputies... greeting the comrades and representatives of the police unions. Little or nothing has to do with the text of the motion presented today by the PP with the inquiry he made in the previous plenary, where let's say that the content and forms were not the best. But I remain with the debate before us today, the text of the motion, which, I believe, is much more constructive. From Citizens, as you all know, we have defended, defend and defend the good work of all security forces and bodies, not only those who serve in Catalonia, but those who do so in the rest of Spain. I am absolutely convinced that this motion is supported by all the groups in this Parliament; well, with the exception of the CUP, current partners of Government and Convergence, who have demonstrated in each and every one of their interventions that they do not like the police, that the police bother them: they have requested by active and passive the resignation of the Lord Councillor d'Interior, Mr Jané, and that of the Director General of the Police, Mr Batlle; of the latter, likewise they get it, since, according to information published in various media, it seems that this time Convergence would be added to their request for resignation, since it is not independent enough for them. Well, here we could finish our speech, because the text of the People's Party motion says nothing but'support and recognition of the professionalism of the security forces and bodies. We therefore believe that this motion remains in a declaration of good intentions if it is not accompanied by a battery of good measures to improve and facilitate the hard work that our policemen do, both here, in Catalonia, and in the rest of Spain. As you know, from Citizens we have presented innumerable measures, both here and in the Congress of Deputies, to improve the employment situation of all the security forces. Look, the Mossos d'Esquadra need more staff, more and better means, more training, to be compensated for the twelve-hour workdays and to be returned to them the tique d'Esquadra, to be fulfilled the agreements signed with the Government in 2008 and 2015 in the area of wages, and something very, very important: that once and for all they be stopped from being used as a political tool. The local police need, in addition to more troops, more means and more training, to share information with the Mossos d'Esquadra, so that it does not seem that in Catalonia there are first and second police. The Civil Guard and the National Police need a framework agreement that equals wage levels and working and conciliation conditions. The port police of Barcelona and Tarragona, who serve in critical facilities, urgently need to be equipped with firearms. This latter claim is shared, as you well know, with the rural agents. Customs officers need more staff and more means to be able to perform their duties properly. And prison officials need more staff, more specific training and more means to be able to work safely. The Government, as always, says that everything is fine and that it is working on it, and that, if we support the budgets, something we will not do while they spend money on 9 November and on state structures, all this will be done. Look, when you present budgets for all Catalans and not just for one part, our parliamentary group will be happy to sit down and talk to you about budgets. A good sign that everything is not going well is the demonstration that took place yesterday at the door of the Parliament, convened by the majority unions of the police of Catalonia, where they claimed everything that previously pointed to them. Instead of wasting the money of all Catalans or bringing it warmed up to home – either with 3, 4 or 7_per_cent – they invest in security. Look, the basic pillars of a welfare society are education, health, social policies and security. So, gentlemen of Convergence and Esquerra, stop wasting the money of all Catalans on structures of an imaginary independent state that will never arrive, and invest what we really care about. Our police, our security forces, our emergency services need that money that you are wasting to provide a better service to all citizens. Thank you, President, Mr. Counsellor, Members, Members. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.77.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Next, the words of Mr Carles Castillo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.78.0	Good morning, everybody. Greetings to the company of the movement unions. Well, the company that preceded me, from Ciutadans, came forward, and what's going on is that I think he's been a little bit his own. And it's that, Mr. Villagrasa... gentlemen of the PP surprised me, surprised me. And look, the Spanish right, aligned with the most reactionary right in Europe, thought I couldn't be surprised anymore, but I'm surprised again. You make an inquiry that we could call 'the Mad Max inquiry', an absolutely apocalyptic inquiry. And then it goes off with a young man who looks like the cat's moto, the moto of the good born; a moto, certainly, of security of the People's Party agreed with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, I just want to highlight it. We also vote in favour. I mean, it's not a criticism of Catalonia's companies Yes, it's Pot, but when it's voting for a young woman like this, there are two options: either it's a consensus job or it's a young woman who doesn't say anything, it's empty of content. And that's what you said. If we say: "The sky is blue, then naturally we would all agree. The other day, Mr. Villagrasa, you were Dr. Jekyll, and you came down here with an interrogation that would destroy, crush, radical – if I may. And now it's Mr. Hyde; you're going to be quiet, you're going to be quiet, you're going to be everybody's friend. You're Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde from the security of this Parliament. Miri, I'll tell you, some... I'll remind you of some of the pearls that you said the other day. He spoke of image and little general recovery of the state's security forces and bodies; we may be more or less in agreement. He spoke less; we don't agree. Reconnaissance, lack of public reconnaissance at work. He talked about the Barcelona Assembly, the Badalona Assembly. He spoke of Mossos d'Esquadra; speaking of Mossos d'Esquadra, he spoke of dignity, costumes, eating waltz, second activity, political use of the police, government tebiesa. He spoke of the Taser committee and criticized the existence of a committee – advised for the United Nations, for the Council of Europe – that the only one that does is to bring a debate to Parliament, a debate that I believe to be absolutely legitimate. He spoke of ‘double standards' – which we can, at last, agree on – in some sanctioning shippers. He spoke of the rural agents; he dared to tell the councillor, today, of the rural agents, who had betrayed the memory of the dead; an absolute barbarity, if I may. In the background, you swept away true myths, opinions and lies, demagogic and absurd. But, above all – above all, above all – Mr. Villagrasa, you were wrong in the forms – you were wrong in the forms. There is no way to make a speech destroy in this Parliament as it was done, and to go from party to party with responsibilities of government, and to go from party responsible in questions of security. And I'm telling you the same thing that you told the counselor, I'm telling you looking at him in the eye, Mr. Villagrasa: it was you who was unjust, unmagic and deeply irresponsible. It was. And I think that with some responsibilities of government, that precisely, if they are in question from independence, from the CUP, for example, it is to be overly responsible, that is what is happening to this councilman, somewhere in the interior dome. Are you familiar with the film, what's going on? Everything was done to make you more papist than the pope, to take the most radical criticisms of the unions and to make you the first in the class, as a foaled child. Mossos d'Esquadra has a series of hard problems, Mr. Villagrasa, that you have frivolized. We'll vote for him in favor of the young lady, I'm telling you, but why don't you just say something. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And I think – I think – that we have to tell you that you have missed the opportunity to provide solutions to some of these problems that you have pointed out. Or is it that neither the costume nor the lack of eating waltz, nor the proper assumptions, nor the second activity, nor the formation, nor the differential treatment unjustly respects the rest of you that is given in some moments to Mossos? It's no longer a problem, that you're venting the young man with a recognizance, just in the pocket, when could we have achieved any obligation to make this government? So, we think it's not a waste, Mr. Villagrasa. And allow me also to remind you of your own words – because, you, what you have done precisely is to let the police know politically in that inquiry and also in this motion–; I remind you of your literal words: "The dignity of the Catalan Police cannot have a price, Mr. Villagrasa. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.79.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Castle. Next, to pronounce on the papers has the word of Mr Alberto Villagrasa. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You've got two minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.80.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Castillo, yes, the government... where is it? Yes, the People's Party rules with the most extreme right, yes. As in Tarragona, which governs for the Socialist Party. Look, I don't think you understand anything. Today it was a matter of making a solemn declaration of recognition to the Mossos d'Esquadra – whom I had not seen before and greeting them –, institutional recognition. And are we told to make concrete proposals on material and personal matters? If surely the party that has put forward the most concrete proposals in this plenary has been the Group of the People's Party. And the rest, what have they done? What have you done? – What have they done? – if they only know what to talk about complexes. Or are you justified by the desire for the good treatment of the Urban Guard, for example, in the city of Barcelona that governs with Mrs. Colau? Go, please. They say that they are logical and necessary things to present in this plenary session. I hope that it will be unnecessary to present them in another plenary because, of course, the treatment that has been given to the security forces and bodies in Catalonia by this Government and other parties has been unfair and unnecessary. Mrs Vehi, I think I was confused when I was talking about self-esteem. I'm not a cop. Although, if I'm confused with a cop, it doesn't offend me or bother me. But you were talking about the Spanish centralist state, the regime... Yes, that Spanish state, this government, is so authoritarian that it allows the Foral Police, the Ertzaintza and the Mossos d'Esquadra to exist. And the tone, I'm going to tell you, is simply to try to get a consensus to get an institutional recognition of respect for the police. And if you want to talk about model – and I have 20 seconds left – we're talking about model. Our model is that people can live in freedom and security. Our model is not Cine Princesa, nor Sant Pere mes Baix, nor Can Vies nor bank expropriation. Who are the violent, Mrs Vehi? – Who are the violent ones? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.81.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. Next, we shall proceed to the vote. We're calling it a vote. Mrs Vehi, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.82.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.83.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.84.0	The deputy of the PP has once again referred to the CUP as violent, and we ask, if you please, that these terms should end up being used, that if what is not able is to hold an ideological debate about the model of security in conditions and with contingencies, then what is done as you please, but as it were, to refer to the CUP systematically as a violent political party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.85.0	Mr. Villagrasa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.86.0	In contradiction, Madam President. I have never said that the CUP is a violent party. If you guys are alluding to each other, it's your problem. [[Some applause.]] [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.87.0	Let's go vote for the senate. The vote begins. The motion on security policies was approved by 122 votes to 9, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the question to the Government on the deployment of Law 11/2014, to guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersexual and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia]] [[302-00118/11]] The point of the order of the day is: Motion following the question to the Government about the deployment of Law 11/2014, to guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Ms. Marta Moreta. [[Widow's remorse.]] I thank them who are in a hurry and in silence, because we must continue with the session. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.88.0	Good half for everyone. He will advise, Members and Members; the entities that accompany us, I greet them, especially the sectoral of the PSC, which is here listening today. Today we present this young man not as a mere journey, because he has to present himself, but because we firmly believe that he can act quickly for the full deployment of Law 11/2014, and deploy it in a real way. This motion asks that the decree of the national council, the specific protocol of action that makes real the duty of intervention of the Administration, is present definitively without delay. We also ask that you do the protocol to prevent and address LGBTIfòbic bullying, as well as compromise 'if you present it in a year from the interdepartmental commission's report on the social impact of the law. We also have to have, and I say so, the decree of the sanctions regulations, so that we can open the sanctioning dispatchers to all those educational centres that offer school materials with homophobic content. He explained this to the previous plenary, referring to some examples that had happened later: homophobic attacks, discriminations due to sexual orientation or gender are the often, but often so, scenario of the doors of our communication media. We can't keep the headlines, because every day teens and young people feel alone, young people who are abused by others who see the right to act as they want. She said, in the past plenary session, that she had no knowledge of the homophobic book that recommended an Opus school subsidized by the Generalitat, and added: "If the PSC knows, you file a complaint. That's what he asked me to do. Well, then, I'll let you know that once I heard your disenfranchisement on the subject, the plenary ended up meeting with the observer against Homophobia and presented the plenary weekend. That said, I understand that you don't know everything that goes on in Catalonia's schools, I would just miss it, because it would be a superwoman. But it would be fine – it would be fine – that you are in the current and have strict control and thorough follow-up of the contents of the school materials of all the schools that are subsidized by the Generality. I can help the Teaching Counselor, obviously. Why, do you know what's going on? If we don't do it, we're breaking the law, and so we have to do it. And why do I insist so long as we make the sanctioning order all the time? So, look, because these days we have had a clear example of why it is necessary: the bus of shame. You know what I'm talking about, right? We cannot allow LGTBifóbics slogans and ideas to reach our cities and is a walker with total impunity. And I know that the general government has sent the prosecution of crime to hate the bus with wire transfers. But, look, counselor, you said the Ple passed that the deadline for making the law's sanction procedure decree was six-month processing—six-month processing—that I repeated and repeated—I listened to myself again. So that's not what Law 26/2010 says, of August 3, of the legal and procedural regime of the public administrations of Catalonia in its fourth title, of the procedure for the elaboration of regulatory provisions, which is exactly the explanation of the terms with which it is to be carried out, and, summarizing it, in one and a half months it could be kept in full. But let's leave the topic of the discussions..., uh, of the dates, let's leave it – let's leave it. Let's leave the dates, 'cause I can see I've been meaning not to. But I did not, because I will say this: on November 22, 2016, the Ciutadans Group presented a motion for a resolution to the Igualtat Commission, and they were already talking about this decree. In that committee, Mrs. Violant Cervera gave it to Mrs. Naomi of the Street: "There is a legal committee that is working on the development of sanctions, which is what we are talking about. So, look, this is eight months ago -- eight months ago. For all these reasons, it must be firmly compromised that this motion will be approved and that it will be brought to an end in the terms that we set it up, because it is not a statement of intent, it is a need of the LGTBI collection. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.89.0	Thank you, Mrs. Moreta. Next, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word "Mrs. Gabriela Serra", of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.90.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. First of all, agrair la Marta Moreta – we are, Marta? I've lost you..., where you've made this motion for a resolution, because it's necessary, because it's good. And we also appreciate you accepting all of our papers. Precisely, there have been two, the two that you have not done very much, the honourable Member has not done very much, that precisely it is to present the decree of sanctioning regulation in a maximum of three_months; we appreciate that the haggia accepted, because for us it was a substantial and fundamental element. There have been many examples of these days, and it is true that the references you have made to other questions... but I would like to remind you that, from the end of the day, the law was approved, only the Observer against Homophobia has made a hundred complaints, only the syndic has returned thirty-three complaints and the Directorate General of Equality has only investigated sixty-three. Of all these complaints and complaints that have been made directly, there has only been, after two years, a single administrative sanction, and an administrative sanction that has cost three hundred euros. We're talking about a law that we all thought was good, but that has a no or no deployment and that has a not enough, not to say insufficient, funding. We're also talking about political will, Counselor. We need to talk about political will, because we store the complaints and store the complaints, and we don't evacuate solutions to deal with all these adversities, defencelessness, unselfishness with all the people who are part of the LGTBI collection. And we have to ask ourselves why the sanctioning regime is not being deployed. As long as we've deployed other sanctioning rules... before we talk about police, we talk about law, we talk about security and repression. Why don't we deploy this sanctioning rule that you're doing and that you're driving all this disenchantment and all this hopelessness that's coming from the LGTBI sector for this reason, for this inactivity that's there? I would like to recall, from this situation, that precisely – precisely – on the 23rd of February, at one in the morning, on the First street of Maig, Sitges, a young man, a young man from the LGTBI collection held before the music bar Las Vegas a brutal assault on the part of an armed man, a man armed with an extensible cock. Not all men went..., with maybe yes tips, but not so many extensible ones. This man, this man who assaulted, was accompanied by two friends, and more so by this man who brutally assaulted, who was denounced before the Squadron Mosses, has been recognized for the two companions of the assaulted, and yet, at this time, we know nothing has happened. The Observers against Homophobia transmitted a communication to the officials of the Mossos, the Generality and the Public Prosecutor's Office. The D.A. said she's up to work, the Mossos said she's up to work; we don't know what the generality is saying. The other great proposal that seemed important to us to add was precisely the actual deployment of all the full-service service. A little while ago we celebrated the sad suicide, disappearance, "murdered, it should be said, of the young man said years that for reasons of aggression he found no better overcoming and out than to stop being with us. We have a collection of couples, we have a collection of seas, we have a collection of affections, we have people to teach – as long as there is no advice – that we insist on the need for follow-up, the need for help, the need for instruments. And, in turn, we have, for another band – and with this I want to finish –..., and I want to remember: it's not that Make You Hear appearing in our pants a few days ago, it's that it's been a while that Make You Hear distributed 1,772 books left to anyone who wants to teach your child the laws of sexual indoctrination; 1,772 books that went on the complaints of the observer, went on the complaints of the LGTBI families, they went on the complaints of the registrar in the LGTBI policies of Ripollet, and nothing was done, because theoretically the nominal responsible for this entity is from Madrid. But, in change, the 1,772 books were distributed in 1,772 Catalan schools, and that there were not 1,772 Opus schools – they were not –, they were public schools, and that's why the AMPAs also complained. This is what this motion for a resolution has, which is why we will vote for it and why we have worked together to get it round and to improve a little bit. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.91.0	Thank you, Mrs Serra. Next, has the word Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.92.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. My group welcomes this motion presented for the Socialist Group, because it is certain that there are still aspects to deploy in the law that guarantees the rights of LGBTI people. The points presented by Mrs Moreta seem very important to us. Especially relevant to us seems point number 5, which says: "To present at the end of a year a report of the interdepartmental commission on the social impact of Law 11/2014, and to make public the assessment of public policies developed for the Generality. And if it seems very uplifting to us, it is because there are many complaints between entities at present; they regret that there is a considerable inopportunity. So, then, that the government has to report annually would be very positive. As a matter of fact, the Barcelona City Council did it the past year and it did it again, and let us suggest to the Government that it is looking at the model that serves the city council, as it has a lot of acceptance. Before I throw in front I want to thank Congresswoman Moreta who has accepted all the papers. I would also like to point out that, as much as we have a magnificent law, that it is, as much as we have just done the unfolding, that we need it, a law for itself cannot change mindsets. It's true that it helps, but it doesn't change them. I give you the example of the Tobacco Law: it is certain that, through the deployment of the regulation, which says where we can and can't smoke, there are penalties that act coercively on those people who violate the law, it has resulted in that it is not smoked in prohibited spaces. But because the law had been effective before it warmed us to the bone spring, it is to say, changing the ideas of the citizenry respect tobacco. There have been many years of announcements about cigarettes, North American films and European films, with all the actors and actors smoking, with a certain glamour associated with the fact of smoking, and all this has had to be fought with messages based on scientific studies explaining the undesirable effects of tobacco so that after the law could have an effect. In the same way, only with the law can we not fight Feresteg and obstinacy against lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersexual people. It is not about years or some centuries, it is about many and many centuries of a determined, patriarchal thought, which affects all persons considered to be second to patriarchy. We just have to present the bus to make you hear, put on the march for an ultra-Catholic group against transgender children, and respect to which we have added a message to the motion so that it is aware that, from the Parliament, we condemn this campaign and commit ourselves to explicitly condemn the acts against LGBTI people that may be there in the future. And I don't know if I can do one right now..., I don't know if there's a change in voice, because Congresswoman Moreta told me that the PP group doesn't want to accept our message because there's a redaction error: we've been talking about ultra-Catholic bus, when a bus can't be ultra-Catholic or anything else, it's just a bus that has to be behind an ultra-Catholic group. If I'm allowed the rectification, maybe the PP will be able to add to our vote. To change mindsets, there is not enough to condemn an act like this, a punctual fact like this, we need to do a very intense educational work for which we have not yet put all the meat to the grailella. For example, in classical Greece, Aristotle gathered the thought of the time: women are cold and, therefore, they are not able to think. And he gave there a pseudoscientific basis that relegated us to the role of slaves without access, for example, to the public, without access, for example, to the cinnacles of science or wisdom. This thought – putting only this example but it could put much more – has crossed the whole story and has come so far. I'm sure they remember the Polish MEP who said what he said a few days ago – I won't repeat it. With LGBTI people, the same goes for the same reason: patriarchy. In Aristotle Greece, although we have often believed that yes, LGBTI people also did not have rights; the only ones were the lovers, who could maintain sexual relations with their slaves whenever they had exclusively an active role. At the length of the centuries, we could find many examples that show the countermind to LGBTI people; for example, the association that has historically been made and that has permeated many penal codes between homosexuality and bestialism, with the consequent persecution of who was homosexual. For all these reasons, we have proposed a task to work with the educational community for such an inclusion – and I have already finished – throughout the school curriculum prevention in the matter of equality and non-discrimination, ensuring the generalization of the school network for equality and non-discrimination that ensures full work with students, teachers and families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.93.0	Thank you, Mrs. Lienas. Next, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.94.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, guests. « I will tell you how you were born, forbidden pleasures, / How a desire is born on towers of astonishment, / Threatens bars, discolored hiel, / Petrified night by force of fists, / Before all, even the most rebellious, / Suitable only for life without walls. With this striking force, Luis Cernuda's poem begins « I will tell you how you were born. Luis Cernuda was gay and left us an impressive arrival of homoerotic poetry, a homoeroticism, yes, conveniently disguised, because the context where he lived reminded him every day that, as the poem says, his pleasure was a forbidden pleasure. Cernuda, like so many people far from the story, had to store her way of feeling, esteeming, and desiring because the context told her she wasn't right. I would very much like to say that this is no longer the case, but the reality is that today there are people who seem to not yet know that we live in the 21st century, and are dedicated to busing to try to make life a little harder for those people who have been born into a sex life that does not correspond to how they feel. More in front of the poem of Cernuda continues: « I did not know the limits imposed, / Limits of metal or paper, / Since chance made him open his eyes under such a high light, / Where no empty realities arrive, / Odion laws, codes, rats of ruined landscapes. I can say that fortunately this is no longer the case: we no longer have hideous laws that limit people's desire for their sexual orientation. On the contrary, we have a law that fights against LGTBIphobia. For the time being, thanks to the laws we have the bus transferred into accounts to escape your hate on our streets. The problem, therefore, is not the laws, the problem is that these laws are not complete, and, in this sense, we appreciate the presentation of this young woman to Mrs. Moreta, of the PSC; a young woman who speaks of this: the non-compliment of a law, 11/2014, which was announced at drums and silversmiths but is not unfolding like a horse. In fact, it is not the first time that it is called for to be completed: Mrs Moreta has already commented that our group to the Igualtat Commission has presented..., she has spoken of one, but there are two motions for resolution in this sense. And it's not the only democratic mandate that hasn't been fulfilled: one year ago my group filed a motion to end the LGTBifóbic settlement at school and was approved unanimously. Despite this, the settlement continues, as demonstrated by the report submitted by Mr. Eugeni Rodríguez, President of the Observers against Homophobia, and, as he says, the problem is not the LGTBI student, the problem is the student he serves. But it's often the student set up what ends up changing center, and that can't be allowed. The government has presented a document of supposed compliment of this young man, but, in reality, what he talks about is things that are already done or protocols stuck to websites that, as we know, are not used to end the LGTBI settlement. Unfortunately, schools are not the only place where we have this type of accommodation: we also find homophobic, for example, in the world of sport. And that's why my group has submitted to the Commission of Equality a motion for a resolution to end the LGTBifóbic settlement in the world of sport, and we ask that the 19th of February be declared "Day Against Homophobia in Sport". We see, therefore, that we have a good law but that it is not being complied with, and we think that the Government has to give explanations about this not compliment in its parliament, and for this reason from the Commission of Equality we have repeatedly called for Mrs Bassa's appearance, but Together for the Yes and the PP unite their votes and should "Join for the No Retention of Government Accounts". We will continue to fight, because we want to live in a world of free and equal people, where differences do not suppose inequality. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.95.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sierra. Next, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", from the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.96.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors... So, a very special greeting to the public that accompanies us. It's a public that we have to thank for always from the very first moment so much of..., while we were doing the law's drafting work, they had an obviously fundamental role and they're always here to remind us, so we have a law and we have to try to deploy it as well as possible and as quickly as possible, and that's what we're doing and what the Government of the Generality is doing. Mrs. Moreta in her interview told the councilwoman that she wanted to get out of doubt and clarify what we were going through, that we are missing and where we are going with the law. And I repeat myself in the statements or in my intervention, when, in the past plenary, we approved the Law Proposition against hatred and discrimination, and said at that time: "We have a pioneer law in the world, which has not been easy to implement, but since the first day of its approval the Government has worked and is working hard for its implementation, to eradicate everything we all want: to eradicate homophobia in our country. I announce that Together for the Yes will support all points of the motion, and I thank Mrs Moreta, therefore, the presentation of this motion, and the parliamentary groups have made their contributions to it. Our reviews – some have been accepted and other transactions – are in the line of continuing to make possible the deployment of this law, and our small discrepancies were only in a question of terms, of terms at the time..., of terms that were more realistic at the time of being able to implement it. It is about the council and the presentation of the decree of the national council LGTBI. We all know that this national council has continued to gather and that the decree is not yet in its approval, so it also provided for the law. It is true, too, that this decree was a small delay, at the request of the same entities, that they asked for more time to be able to work better, but at these times the decree is already presented, it is presented to the Sicop and it is only necessary to finish the administrative procedures, that in this case they do not depend on the councillor of the Government: public exposition, sent from consultations of the departments, visiplaus of the legal advisors. The same applies to intervention protocols, which are being drawn up, or to the sanctioning regulation decree, which is also being drawn up. It is true, it could be more hasty; it is true that there are certainly other decrees that are easier to implement and, therefore, they are faster to approve, but it is also true, and we have remembered many times, that this is a pioneering law, different, and, therefore, it must be done with great care at the time of being able to implement it. Regarding protocols to prevent bullying at schools: we agree. We regret that our task was not accepted, it was said that the department of the Generality already had protocols for detection and intervention in front of settlement between equals, in which it is inclined, precisely, homophobic, homophobic like the other assets that exist. We accept, however, that they tend to make a specific protocol for school bullying. We would ask, however, if possible, that instead of a_me we donate a little more time to be able to implement it. We also talk about complaints, and it's true: the department can only act in those cases where there is a firm complaint. In 2016, fifty-three complaints were filed. Not all complaints about their resolution are made by the Benestar Department. These complaints, some of them criminal, and, therefore, go directly to the Ministry of Public Prosecutions; others have been resolved through mediation. Of the 29 administrative offices, 7 are in processing, 1 has a sanction; 21 are filed for different reasons – to adopt educational and awareness-raising measures, to be outside the jurisdictional sphere–. Others, as he recalled, went directly to the prosecution. Therefore, the Government is acting as provided for in the law. The lady... from the Ciutadans Group told us that she didn't comply with the motions. I have to say no. You presented a motion and the Department of Education on June 21st answered them what the government is doing to try to avoid homophobia in our schools, and we will continue to work on it. It's not an easy task and we'll keep working on it. I'll also talk about the program contract. We hope that the premise will be approved because the Generality has included in the program contract a match to be able to fight the homophobia together with the assemblies. And he also referred to the apartment to condemn the Hazte Oir bus campaign. Obviously, we also vote in favour. But to say that the department, immediately, and of officers, at the time of hearing the news, put it in knowledge of the prosecution, and more so it put in contact with the three municipalities affected in order to be able to act in a joint way. Therefore, from Junts to Yes we are against this campaign. Mrs. Moreta, the government's commitment is absolute. The compliment of the Law of the Fight against Homophobia can only be done through joint work. We, together for Yes, will give support, but we are convinced that the Government of the Generality, as it cannot be otherwise, does everything possible because this law can be implemented as quickly as possible. So, yes, I would ask, if possible, even if it's in voice, to ask them if at the point on bullying to the schools, so, we can extend the term to three_months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.97.0	Thank you, Mrs. Beer. Next, to fix his position, has the words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.98.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, the fight against discrimination against LGBTI people cannot fail; because it is about discrimination that today is, unfortunately, very real. It is advancing, but we are far, far, far from the ideal that is supposed to be a modern, democratic and liberal city in the 21st century. The prejudices and sectarianism in many directions cause that there are still asphyxiating cabinets in many areas, especially in the world of work, and, in a terrible way, in school. The People's Party will vote in favour of the motion presented to us by the Socialist Group in coherence with which we have already demonstrated on various occasions, without going further to the last Committee on People's Equality. It seems, in fact, that this young man is not aware of the thoughts and complaints that we heard that day. Different perspectives have denounced the same vice as Catalan politics: they approve of laws, announce drums and silverware, and then do not apply. The Generalitat presumes very advanced laws, but then does not deploy them. The different associations that appeared reported a lack of willingness on the part of the Generality: resources, strategy, coordination, diagnosis, training, prevention, special care for victims. They reported feeling lonely and abandoned. Did anyone think that approving a law the job was done? There was a lot of haste – a lot of haste – to pass the law of non-discrimination by sex, but we already had laws: we have the legal regulations, starting with our Constitution and our Statute of Autonomy; the Spanish Penal Code, too, contemplates this protection with circumstances that exacerbate criminal responsibility when committing a crime for reasons of sexual orientation. But she was in a hurry to approve the 11/2014 Law, very much in a hurry. And, also, the Government of the Generality has not been in a hurry to deploy it. Look, we weren't in favor of a lot of points, or a few points, of that law. We continue to think that the best way to fight discrimination is not always from the most absolute interventionism. We continue to think that we cannot make a law for all and every one of the collections likely to violate their rights, because our normal mark already forces public powers to age for non-discrimination. We believe that it is best to walk towards a model based on respect for all people, regardless of their sexuality, race or religion. But, of course, if you approve of a law and then do not apply we have three problems: the first, frustration; the second, insecurity; and, the third, the same discrimination as before. Finally, our party, our parliamentary group, raised the vote at point 13 of this motion, because, literally, point 13 spoke of "Ultra-Catholic bus". First, buses have no ideology or religion. [[Rialles.]] Second, I'm a Catholic soc and I don't agree, I'm against what that bus said; in fact, it was the government delegation in Madrid that put the bus into the public prosecutor's office. And thirdly, when they are condemning a message and they pose the adjective of ‘Catholic without any form of support' – how it was done, or how it was done at this point at its beginning, and how did the Deputy of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot – somehow they are discriminating against a group of people for their religion. They're doing what they're denouncing: they're assigning a religion and insulting it. Because you are not here to say what is Catholic and what is not Catholic. [[Widow's remorse.]] They're... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It turns out that you are now the Congregation of the Doctrine of the Faith and say that it is Catholic and that it is not Catholic. [[Greetings.]] So, listen to me, I'm a Catholic and I don't agree with what that bus said. So, we think it was a big mistake to put this thing down. We appreciate your rectification. All the way, we'll see what's left of it: if I kept this adjective, we won't be able to vote for it; if it's done, we can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.99.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Milián. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.100.0	Well, first of all I would also like to welcome the hemicicle, which I did not say before, to the representatives of the Observer against Homophobia, who are also accompanying us today. On the other hand, I will continue with the graces of all political groups, because they have made an effort to improve this young man. It's okay that at some point we can all agree to improve things, and whenever I have made a motion to Parliament, it has been approved by most and always with the will of all political groups. And so, I think that's nice and I expose it to you high, because it's important. That said, yes, I would like to say that the message that Mrs. Violant Cervera commented, from point 4, that we can trade it from one_month to three_months, we accept it. So, stay here. And from point 13, which seemed to have given more importance to the ultra-Catholic word than to the same young man, we understand that we accept the idea that the bus is not ultra-Catholic, but the rest is kept the same. So, said that, it seems to me that the reader will already have it well, because he was asking us. On the other hand, I'd like to end up saying that everyone's good will and the will to pull this one forward we all have. But if he has looked well, he will advise, all groups except Together for the Yes, they have told him that we have not done well; therefore, if he listens well, he will see that they are certainly not doing well. And we are here to remember it and to help it actually unfold from time to time this law, because it is necessary for many people who are living at this very complicated time. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.101.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moreta. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.102.0	To ask if it is possible to read how the last point after the transaction would remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.103.0	The tretzé point, huh? "The Parliament condemns the bus campaign Make You Hear With Transfóbic Messages and is committed to explicitly condemn acts against LGBTI people who may be there in the future. Is that it? No, I'm asking the... yes, ma'am Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.104.0	No, I guess not, huh? If not, let's finish the Gemma Lienas..., finish commenting on it. But what would remain would be: "The Parliament condemns the campaign of the ultra-Catholic entity Make You Hear with Transphobic Messages..., and the rest of the motion. [[Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.105.0	Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.106.0	Then we would ask for a separate vote from the last point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.107.0	Of the tretze point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.108.0	Yeah. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.109.0	A separate vote has been requested on point 13. So, we'll start by voting point 13 and then we'll vote the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] We're voting point number 13. The vote begins. Point 13_has been approved by 122 votes to 9, with 9 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion to guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersexual and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia has been approved by 131 votes in favour, against and against. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. [[The session is suspended at a quarter of two in the middle and eleven minutes and is resumed at three in the afternoon. She presides over the Speaker of Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who are assisted by the Secretaries General, the Elector Major and the late Anna Casas and Gregory.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.110.0	He's back at the session, very late in the day for everyone and everyone. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into policies to gather in Catalonia]] [[302-00121/11]] The item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on the policies of joining Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose her, has the word Lord Lluís Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.111.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, this was a motion that had just an inquiry and, therefore, the subsequent motion, that had as its will above all to try to build folds from different parliamentary forces a coherent policy of gathering, and to build it in such a way that the action of the government had an impulse to the height of the demand and the claim of the Catalan civil society. A few days ago we were here with Congressman Marc Sanglas, we agreed with a group of students who came to visit the Parliament, and one of the questions that they asked us was whether the Parliament would be at the height of the demonstration that was produced on the streets of Barcelona to ask for a welcome and attention to the height of the circumstances of the refugee drama; it was a question that the students asked us directly. Therefore, the will is this, and I believe that around this young man we have worked in this sense. To say that we are very grateful to the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes, with whom we have worked, we fully accept, as far as we have been able to discuss and situate them within a general scheme that represented a grubbing-up agreement and that we have been able to polish and concretize, around so many things, so many important ideas, right? That we thought it was important to pose in the damont of the table. First, therefore, to establish a map, an analysis, a photograph of the complex reality of the situation of refugees and devices, both governmental and entity, in order to attend to this situation, underlining here– and I thank the good work done by the Ciutadans Group, which has made two papers– an important element that could seem obvious in the first part of the youth, which calls for the application of the collection plan, and is the attention to children, eh? When we become aware of Amnesty International's reports on the fate of thousands of missing children in the refugee drama, we become aware that undermining society's need for particular and sustained attention from this collection is not surprising, in this case. So, welcome to this thought that subtraces this. The motion also underlines the need to unify efforts from the government to local entities, which are in the first line of fire, once more, in order to cope with this situation; as it speaks of the need to establish specific presuppositionary provisions for the care of refugees, which have particularities and which require very concrete devices which must therefore be developed and supported financially as well. To claim also... There has been a discussion, I believe that we have resolved it properly also, from a point of view presented by the Ciutadans Group, which has the concern in the fact that it is claimed, there is a demand from this motion for something that is statutoryly established, that it is the management of the Administration of the Generality of the European Foundations intended for the policies of acquittal, and in which there was the concern that in a motion of this type what we want, in relation to the Spanish Government, is to try less to compete than to work together, but to work together, at the same time, according to a principle of subsidiarity and autonomy and proximity in the treatment of problems, which is what retreats, therefore, this specificity of our State. It may be said that there are some elements that are at the intersection between the situation of refugees and migrants in a situation of surmounted irregularity; it is also sub-ratta here. And it's also substrata at the end of the day – I think in a way..., we have also come to an appropriate formula – the need for a social responsibility of Catalan companies that operate abroad and that can affect those countries and those conflict zones. To say, finally, that this young man has some important intersecting elements in the motion that we would then discuss with the CUP's partners, all the more so than the one that we presented to us – and that is why we did not want to try to make a big "matching", because it would probably be a very long and complex one – which we have more to see with the responsibilities and with the tasks of a certain department, while the CUP's proposal has many elements that affect more quickly in external action, huh? Therefore, they are complementary, we think they are complementary; our opinion, already advanced, is favorable in general lines to which the companies propose, but we think that we can work it and we can save them more. Therefore, we would like to thank the cooperation and the good disposition, and we hope that this will, therefore, effectively help a sustained action in favour of refugees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.112.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. In order to defend the papers presented, Ms. Susana Beltrán, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.113.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman Rabell, for bringing us this young man. As soon as I saw it I liked it, I liked it very much. She's a young lady with three very clear parts. Elements for diagnosis, right? : what do we have, what do we have, who we have above, who are the obligations of the Generality. A plan of action: to deploy the plan of assembly and facilitate the administrative processing of refugees, which, as many entities say, therefore, brings many problems. There's also a third part of the young man who's the way to work, how does the whole refugee thing work, huh? , and, for one band, there is coordination and cooperation with the gatherings and entities– very, very important and essential–, and also– and here, therefore, I thank the deputy of Junts for the Yes, David Rodriguez, who has understood, right? , our positions and what has been easy for us – we have found the words that we need to maintain efforts, coordination and cooperation, which are also very and very necessary, with the Government of the State, which is the one that carries the food of asylum and refugees. In short, we want to add to this young man with the hope of working folded, with the hope of unravelling obstacles and throwing away what is supposed to be approved today. But I also have to tell you that today, we already have a first difficulty, which affects working folds and working folds with the Government of the Generality. And I am sorry, therefore, that Mr. Romeva is not here, because I believe that the issue of refugees does not only affect the department of Constellera Bassa, but also affects the department of Consteller Romeva. Once again, I have been denied a democratic right, a right as a representative of Catalonian citizenship, to have access to information, to have access to documents – that we have one and that are sent to international interlocutors – that we don't know what they say – maybe they're talking about refugees, maybe they're talking about corruption, maybe they're talking about other things – which has to appear, right? And he had to talk to an independent organ, which he said, that he recognized the right of this deputy and the right of any of you, any deputy, to access information. There's no excuse. Why, moreover, is it quite clear in this opinion that it is not possible to treat a Member less than a citizen; that if the Administration does not understand what is being asked of it, what the Romeva Department and the Romeva Councillor have not done, and that, in any case, the Members have a preferred right to respect the rights of citizens, huh? This lack of respect, this lack of loyalty, huh? Not with the State, is it? , but with opposition, with the rights of a Member, it affects a lot of folding work and it affects a lot of working with the Government of the Generality, and in concrete terms with the Department of Transparency, which is all the less transparent. That's what I think as a deputy today happens to me, but maybe tomorrow happens to you, huh? And I think this can't tolerate – it can't tolerate. It cannot be said that the rights of those Members who also represent Catalonia's citizenship, because they think differently or because they want to control the government's action, are indistinguishable. What confidence can I have in the issue of refugees or any other subject, if I can't access this information? What's up? So far, I didn't think these documents could say anything alarming, anything we've already heard; but now I'm starting to suspect, now I'm starting to think these documents are saying something, huh? Maybe in corruption, maybe in other issues, I don't know; I don't know because I don't have access. And I don't know who it was sent to, on behalf of all the Catalans, because these documents come from the Department of Transparency. This can't be – this can't be. And precisely because of this, then, call him also to the help of Congressman Rabell, who brought this young man, and I continue to keep this spirit built. I also appeal to Mr Rodríguez, because I do not want to take away the responsibility that we also have as opposed to working on the issue of refugees and because of the fact of working folded, but I see this problem of lack of confidence. And I also appeal to my colleagues, who believe that something needs to be done with a counselor who is not giving, who is denying democratic rights to this Member and, ultimately, to the citizen of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.114.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, the words of Mr. David Rodríguez, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.115.0	Well, thank you, President. We have this truth so obvious that all people are believed to be the same. It seemed relevant to me to start paraphrase Martin Luther King, because man has the feeling that the most often, when referring to refugees or migrants, by language economy the first condition of these, which is to be, precisely, people, is oblivious. And this dehumanization of language, often involuntary, brings us to skewed situations like those we see later in certain states of arrest, where the rise of populisms puts us at risk – when we do not directly oppose it – the most elementary defense of human rights. Who can dare to deny that all people have to have the same rights? Who can refuse to stand next to a person who suffers? Who can treat a person the only object of which is the power to end a life worthy as a delinquent? We could say that our country already has a long tradition at the time of defending just causes. And today there is a motion to respond to the great civic demonstration of the past February 18th, which was asked as politicians to solve the humanitarian problem of the Mediterranean, but not only from this space of the world. And today this Parliament can do nothing but look to be at the height of the human quality of the citizens it represents. And that is why it is important that we set out the position of this movement from a perspective to a maximum of conciliator and that we give an answer to the humane problem that we are facing today in the media and that affects so many people of all ages and social conditions. In this sense, both the group proposing the motion and those that we have submitted statements we have made the effort necessary to facilitate an agreement as wide as possible that allows this chamber to approve it in a way, I would like to believe, unanimous. As the Councillor said the other day, the show of solidarity of the citizenry deserves it. I must thank the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is possible that from the first moment you have had the same spirit. In fact, it has been easy to agree, because we agree to the cent_per_cent in the background of the original motion– and, therefore, the papers presented for our group tried a better one in their writing that kept the initial hope– and because many of the initials that he had already proposed are due to the end of the government. Citizenship was asking all of us, but not all of us have the same responsibility, nor have we had the same attitude before this problem. And, if anyone has the temper of wanting to make him believe, I want to denounce him for injustice and forgery. It is justified, therefore, to assess in its measure the efforts of the Catalan Government, and in a very special way of the Secretary of Migration and Citizenship and of the Foreign Affairs Council. Last year it was set aside for EUR 180,000, without counting Chapter I, to the International Protection Plan in Catalonia, and it is expected that this year will exceed EUR 1 million, or the strengthening of the presence of Catalan cooperation to the border countries of Syria, where, for example, Lebanon has signed agreements with the UN Development Programme and with fifteen Catalan entities, or the Catalan Refugee Programme, which follows the model of reference countries in this area as Catalan, to give only three examples. In the alternative, we also have to say that it has the powers at the time of deciding the entry into the Spanish State of refugees and that it has the powers to do so, that is, the Government of Spain, fails to complete its international commitments; it treats persons who come to the search for a minimum of decent living conditions who are delinquents and does not contribute economically and effectively to it the direct management of the European Union funds intended for the reception and integration of refugees, when it is the Generality that does not support the competence of the Court of Justice in order to finance the educational, humanitarian, social and labour support of these persons, who, at the time of the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice in the case of asylum, have the powers of the Supreme Court in accordance with Articles 138. Until now I have only been talking about the possibilities of Catalonia in this question as Spanish autonomy. It is well known that we are working on the construction of a Catalan republic and that we understand how the model is very different from the current Spanish state, also in this area. Isaac Newton said: "We build massive walls and not enough bridges. The Spanish State is a wall. We can only see the Catalan Republic as a bridge of freedom for all those who suffer. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.116.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. To fix his position, Mr Ferran Pedret of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.117.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, we have seen how the lasting freedom is ephemeral, and we have seen unspeakable countries settle more and more in the Orwellian dystopia of the permanent war that has taken place between us as war on terror. We have seen fanatical rigor armed and aberrant, but frightened by the education of children, sow horror at the school of Afghanistan until the Niger of Boko Haram. We've seen Cobani coventritised. We have endured the unbearable fall of the bomb car or the suicide attempt in Baghdad, Kabul and Islamabad. We have seen Cizre in Turkey, a safe country, reduced to runes. We've seen lead rain on Gaza. We have seen an authentic storm of death and destruction over Libya from Tripoli to Benghazi and from Benghazi to Tripoli. We've seen the genocidal set on Sinjar's yachts. We've seen thousands of sightings of unpacked bodies emerge from between the poles in the Yarmouk camp enjoying a short pause to try to escape from the hollow fire. We have seen thousands and thousands of desperate displaced people seeking refuge in other lands. We have seen them pile up at border crossings, we have seen them locked up in improvised camps in Lebanon, Jordan, Turkey, under conditions more than precarious. We saw them freeze in the cold Balkan winter, pile up and do what they lost in train stations to try to get a warm bed. We've seen them form columns escorted by cavalry and by police boys with pictures that bring us back to the 30s and 40s of the past century. We've seen them exploited and taken advantage of by the mafias. We've learned of the disappearance of thousands of minors on the insecure routes they transit. We have heard, too, of thousands of abuses and violations in this and other routes still more insecure than they continue to Europe. We have seen them, moreover, assailed and accused, double and triple victimized. We have seen the ghost of xenophobia and racism routing Europe and the speech of hate to launch incendiary attacks on houses of refuge in Germany. We have seen them persecuted by extreme right-wing militias on the borders of Bulgaria or Hungary. We have seen parliaments voting in favour of the detention of all refugee persons aged 14 years and older for their internment in camps on the border, in Hungary. We've seen them lift up before their thorny and ignominious tanks. We've seen his flesh open to the bone for the tunics that crowned our tanks. We've seen how it looks with deadly treasuries of search to the Tarajal. We've seen precious ships sink their ass once and for all on the Mediterranean crossing, and this sea of ours becomes the largest common pit of history. We've seen them come to the Mediterranean, we've seen them come back alive to our beaches. We have seen, very recently also, the massacre of the Sabraza plaza, in Libya. And the question is, how long? How long do we have to see and know about this and react? Fortunately, we have also seen the priceless effort of who leaves it all to rescue as many lives as possible, to try to deal with the unfathomable suffering of these thousands and thousands of people who just want to build a future in peace and security. We have also seen the dignity – the dignity – of the Greek seas that interposed their bodies in the footsteps of the Nazis who intended to prevent the schooling of refugee children, and we have seen in the streets of people demanding that people who seek refuge and ask us, ask us and ask us who we are. And that is why it will also be necessary to clarify many of the connivances, the conxorxes, the interests of realpolitik, of the rao d'état which, even today, we are not able to see what we are contributing to move on to Yemen, without going any further. I don't know if we have the answer about who we are, but we should be able to have the answer about who we want to be. And the least – the least, the least – that can be done is to vote in favour of this motion and of which, further ahead, the Candidature of Popular Unity will present. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.118.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Next, the words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.119.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, the Syrian refugee crisis is the greatest humane crisis that our continent has faced possibly since the wars of ancient Yugoslavia. In matters of human rights no concessions can be made. The fact that we are ahead of such a difficult and complex drama forces us to act with all the ethics of responsibility. Solutions are more necessary than slogans. Collaboration is more necessary than propaganda. This is a drama of such magnitude that we can only deal with agreements among all, agreements between all the states of the European Union, and with humanity, seny and joy. Before this question, Mr. Rabell, I will never doubt your conditions, I hope you do not doubt ours either; I liked that you have spoken of collaboration, of principles of sociability, I liked the construction of your intervention. Even so, you gave the question that you shared with the Government of the Generality the will to be at the height of the circumstances, but I am afraid that the Government of the Generality is not at this time. This morning we talked about a vice of the Government of the Generality, a vice that is to make laws, propaganda, and then not to deploy them, not to put strategy, not to put diagnostics, not to put resources; not to put, in short, political will. We said that in the case of the law to guarantee the rights of LGBTI people, but we could also say that in the case of many other laws, such as the effective equality of men and women or also in the case of transparency, right? , which Deputy Susana Beltrán was talking about. It's a modus operandi of this government: it's a fan of announcements, it's a fan of laws, some shots are a lot of blows against the Spanish government, it's an insolidari's outrage, it's an infinite supposed solidarity of the government of the generality, but then always the same, then there's no exercise of the skills they have, there's no deployment of laws, and, as in the case we're talking now, there's no resources. They spend more resources on image rentals and advertising than they do on helping people. And that, you will agree with me, Mr. Rabell, is not ethical. Madam Counselor, it is not ethical on the part of the Government of the Generality. The generality has explained to everyone that it wants to host 4,500 refugees. President Puigdemont wrote a letter to the European Commission explaining his supposed compromise, but what is the reality? The reality is that they have only offered one hundred and fifty seats in conditions. I sincerely believe that some of us have maintained a rigorous and constructive attitude before this human crisis. Since the People's Parliamentary Group, we have given support to the Generality in its demand to gather more refugees. Today, too, we want to give support, in large part, to your young lady. We have to look, however, at how the transactions that you have reached with Junts for the Yes remain, but I want to say that we have actively participated in various study commissions to address the problem. The Delegation of the Spanish Government is also in continuous contact with various refugee support entities to facilitate their task. I am aware that the Government of Spain is in a fluid continuous contact also with the Government of the Generality. But while the Catalan Government was writing cards to the President of the European Commission and criticizing the Government of Spain, the Generalitat has been allocating insufficient resources to attend the asylum programmes that have been in Catalonia for many years. Therefore, they will understand that it also requires a little institutional loyalty from the Catalan public institutions. It is a long time ago, as I said, that the Generalitat explains to everyone that it wants to host 4,500 refugees. It's a cipher that's changing, it's a cipher that, look, a year ago Constellera Bassa was talking about from the Pedralbes Palace of 6,300 refugees that they wanted to host, and said Catalonia already had resources to host 1,800 refugees, but the truth is that the Government of the Generalitat has only offered 301 real seats to host them. The Generalitat has only introduced to the National System of Reception and Integration, since it coordinates the care of refugees, two housing resources with a capacity to accommodate 301 people: 125 places in Manresa and 176 in Barcelona city. More than half of these spaces – more than half – are not on condition, so we can only talk about 150. Honestly, the General should spend more on creating places, the places you say you want to offer, and less on propaganda. The councilwoman told the inquiry that she was in favour of opening borders. We are in favour of tackling problems with rigour, seriousness and resources. I think we will have more time to talk about this drama in the debate on the CUP motion but, in any case, I announce the popular party's favourable vote to the great majority of the points of the Catalonian motion Yes, it is Pot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.120.0	Thank you, Mr. Milián. Next, has the word "Mrs. Gabriela Serra", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.121.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, short and short. I'm surprised, Mr. Coscubala. Then he will speak for allusions, but this morning, when you said that Together for the Yes all thanks to the votes of the CUP, I see that you too, as long as you approve many things with the votes of Together for the Yes and, therefore, it is the same thing. I appreciate the intervention made by Petret because he made us think and reminded us of a lot of things we've seen, and he was impressed but you left... there are some things I want to add to this "we've seen, eh? I want to add what we've seen the CIEs. I want to add all the people who are immigrated, impoverished, who are closed, engaged to the CIE. I want to see all the conclusions, too, of the Foreign Law, a foreign law that takes away xenophobia and racism, apart from the lack of democracy. I want to see also and see also, we also see the detentions absolutely unjustified, absolutely discriminatory, absolutely racist that we are living, right? Because all of this I think we also need to see because sometimes it seems like we've got a lot going on and we don't, we have it at home. We have the southern border, which you have also mentioned – which you have also mentioned, sorry, right? And I'm a little worried when... and I'm also talking about the reason why we're going to do it later, because it's true that there are communicating glasses, right? But after the European Commission's news that it has made public this March 2nd of the past year..., this year – this year, I'm sorry –, I think it's really, and it's a reflection that I want to make out loud, if it really starts or continues to pay the penalty to continue looking at Europe and continuing to claim Europe and not only to claim to the Spanish State that claims Europe, but to continue thinking that we have something to look at with Europe, right? Because when we hear and see the recommendations that the commissioner of the European Union for questions of migrants, Mr Avramopoulos, don't we? It does, and says that we must already start expelling 1_million people without right to asylum and who are now in the Spanish State, when the very resolution of the committee says, for example, that Spain must be tougher with its return policies and with its policies with immigrants; when we remember that we must go further with the terms of employment of the immigrant people and say that we can get to the end of the day, not just the two that we have at our home; when we say that we cannot equate the level of asylum seekers and refugees with economic problems; when they deny all this and when they pose policies every time more restrictive, measures every single day, we do not live alone, we do not alone, we do not say that we do not live alone? I wonder if he really doesn't pay the penalty that we look at and that we dedicate... that we are from here and here where we have to make our efforts, and that we are from here and here where we have to think of something that also reminded us of Congressman Pedret, right? What do we want to be – what do we want to be? And this one maybe we want to start designing it from here. And maybe we'll start designing from here through agreements and through tracts that can be held with the Spanish State, and that can be held even with the European Union. Because a European Union that excludes, that undertakes and that lifts walls, frankly, is not where I want to live. Thank you. [[Some applause.]] We'll vote for your young lady, I didn't say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.122.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. To pronounce on the exams, has the word Lord Lluís Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.123.0	Thank you very much, President. No, very briefly, thanking, therefore, the support for the motion and insisting on this idea. You see, in this case our claim was not submissive to the Government of the Generality. The critical elements we exposed in our inquiry to the government. Here I was trying to see what the agreements were and what was the work we could develop from here. Critics and debate, of course, are legitimate and necessary, and they are an engine of parliamentary life, and God forbid that we should proceed with a unanimous agreement. That wouldn't be democratic or even adventurous. But what we wanted to place, above all, is this: it is not so simple to be nicer to each other, but to be able to define who are the intersections at which the assembly of the parliamentary arch, or in the broadest possible way, can work, can pose dueres to the Government, why the young man poses dueres to the Government, eh? He owes the government and at the same time replaces it to complete certain things with the support and compromise of the joint parliament, let's hope, eh? That's what this is all about, this is the young lady's will. So, I think that, in this sense, the fact that there are all these agreements, this understanding, it's one thing..., it's good news and it's a positive thing. I'm left with this demand that you were wondering before they made us in this hemicle, and they were asking us – in a way that might seem naive in shape, but which, I think, was very sincere and very authentic – if Parliament would be able to hear a cry from the street, huh? And in this way of saying, there was also a need to know how to build effective and real answers to the very sincere demands of the Catalan democratic society. Therefore, I believe that if we approve of this motion in these conditions, we begin to give an answer. If not, we promise to do it. And that was our will. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.124.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.125.0	To ask for a separate vote. First, I wanted to ask the proposing group whether at five we can divide the vote by paragraphs, given that the first paragraph speaks of "presuppositionary provision and the other is a different claim to the State". [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If you could vote separately for this point five per paragraph.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.126.0	It doesn't look like it can do that. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.127.0	Can't you do it? Okay. So, in this case, we ask for a separate vote from the five-and-six points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.128.0	Mr. Milián, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.129.0	To ask for the separate vote from point 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.130.0	Set?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.131.0	Set. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.132.0	As you can see, a separate vote has been requested from points 5, 6 and 7. Therefore, we will begin by voting first on 5, after 6, after 7 and after the rest of the vote. The vote begins. We're voting point number five. Point 5_has been approved by 95 votes to 10, with 24 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 95 votes to 34, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number seven. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 119 votes to 1, with 9 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on policies relating to assembly in Catalonia was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the balance of a year of government]] [[302-00119/11]] The new point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the balance of a year of government, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.133.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, any government does things wrong and also does things right. And sometimes he does bad things by action, and sometimes he does bad things by omission. And we here today have made a brief balance that derives from the inquiry that I made to you the other day, Vice President Munté, in which we focused the balance of this year's government on five very simple points. This motion asks you, on the first of the points... – and if Mr Romeva goes, know that we will also talk about the issue of transparency, I regret that you have to leave the Chamber... – the first is that you do politics. The first point of the motion is that you make politics, that you do not lock yourselves in, that you speak with the Government of Spain, that you make the Government of the Generalitat, that you make the government of an autonomous community and you speak and you join and you incardinate in a political-legal system to which we belong, even if you do not like it. And as long as we belong to a political organic fabric that is that of the State in which we all find ourselves, in that of Spain, then, the logical thing in the interests of the defence of Catalan citizens is that you speak, that you do politics, that you attend where you have to attend, that if you have to go to the Conference of Autonomous Presidents, that you have to go; that if you have to go to the committee that decides important questions about dependence, about the Catalan citizens who are dependent, that we have a representative of the Generalitat of Catalonia to go; but if you have to go to the Councillora, that you have to go to the Councillora and that you do not send other people who go without the same rights as you advised by the fact that you do not deserve this kind of collaboration with the State. So, first, you do politics. Secondly, ensure that they attend where they have to attend, that they appoint experts and people where they have to appoint them. And then, third, another group of obligations after those of politics and where they have to be: that they comply with the resolutions that Parliament agrees. In this Parliament, resolutions were adopted on the transparency of the salaries of the high offices of the Generalitat, on the elimination of barracks, on the reduction of 30_per_cent of university fees, on improvements in care for disabled people... All this has been adopted in this Chamber and you have ignored those resolutions in the year you have been in government. Here we ask ourselves: what will you vote for, the Junts for Yes? What will the CUP vote on compliance with Parliament's resolutions? I suppose, since they have not tabled any amendments in addition... I suppose they will vote in favour of fulfilling what Parliament tells them. Finally, as far as transparency is concerned: we have had to include, in addition to the fulfilment of our obligations, that you make a policy, that you name whom you have to appoint..., we have had to include that you answer the questions put to you by Members of Parliament, something as obvious as that you fulfil your duties. Gentlemen, have you been in the government for a year? Make a government. Admit that you have to have a democratic opposition and that the opposition, for your control, will ask you questions. And when you ask them questions, answer the questions. And what is particularly painful is that your Transparency Adviser is asked for data, you are asked for memoranda..., the Bureau of Parliament, in which you have a majority, says that you have to hand it over; the body that monitors transparency in the Catalan administration says that it has to hand it over, that it is given a deadline until 12 today for those memoranda to be handed over and that you do not hand it over. Counselor Romeva is incurring a very serious – very serious – abandonment of his duties. You know, and you know, that the Transparency Act provides for penalties, among other things, for the dismissal of a person who fails to comply with the Transparency Act. Councilman Romeva has failed. Today we put to the vote in this Parliament the fact that Councilman Romeva has once and for all given these memoranda which are requested of him. Regrettably, today even goes beyond these votes, and today the Romeva Councillor has already ignored what will be voted on here today. Let's see what you vote for, let's see what the members of the CUP vote for today, who are their partners. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.134.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. To defend the papers presented, Mr Ferran Pedret of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.135.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, well, the title of the motion is "on the balance of a year of government, and we, as well as the inquiry and its contents, may expect to see a wider picture of what has been managed by this government during the year. Because the truth is that there is, let's say, a huge array of themes about which it would be possible not only to express an opinion, but to commit the government to stop doing some things, to prioritise one another or to start doing some actions that would probably be convenient for you to do. But in any case, what we've done is to put some items in what we thought was the content that the proposed group wanted to donate, because it wasn't trying to change absolutely the object of the motion through our items. Therefore, I have not said this in the form of a toilet, but simply to find that the balance that should be made on the compliment of a year of government here in Parliament would surely deserve, therefore, a broader treatment with all the fears that there should be on the table. We, basically, proposed two items at the initial part of your text. At the first point, in which you ask to resolve any difference with the Government of Spain in the framework of the usual channels of administrative and political cooperation and collaboration, in accordance with the principles of institutional loyalty and administrative efficiency, we add a final incission in which we ask that this be without waiver of the powers assigned to the Government by the Law of the Government in the matter of defence of the competences of the Generality of Catalonia, that is, in the matter of interposition of resources of constitutionality and in the matter of conflicts of competences. They have decided, as authors of the text, not to include it, and this will make it difficult for us to give support to this first point. Because we are very..., very convinced that the priority that the Government of Catalonia must do is to try to establish a political dialogue with its counterpart, with the Government of Spain, if it has problems of any kind, which may be competitive or of a different nature; but that this must, obviously, be done without the waiver of those powers that we have, according to the State and according to the Law of the Government. Why is it not treated, and allow me colloquiality, to make the walkway, right? and, therefore, it is not a matter of saying that any problem can be solved through the dialog, even though we are still very much in favour of it. At the end of the day, there is a planned mechanism for trying to force the two administrations into the dialog before reaching another solution. Therefore, we believe that no waiver should be made. Then, we asked a second question in which we defended that it also takes into account other powers that the Law of the Government assigns to the Government of the Government of Catalonia, such as the need for the Government to participate in processes of appointment to the Constitutional Court, the General Council of the Judiciary, and also to a whole series of economic and social bodies and other bodies that are mentioned in a certain section of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. They also wanted to incorporate it into the text. To us, it seems that it is very necessary, taking into account the context in which we find ourselves; but they have decided not to do so. For what it does to the rest of the contents of the motion, and to the sight, also, of the incorporation of some items of the Catalonian Group Yes, it is Pot, to us it seems that there should be no major inconvenience in being able to vote on these points; among other things – and we want to highlight it especially before the time is spent – the one that the Government is composing – that, if they want a word more to use in parliamentary uses – to give compliments to all those motions approved by the plenary of the Parliament and that, at the date of today, they have not yet given a total compliment and satisfaction with what these motions claimed. It seems to me that it is absolutely transcendent that the Parliament, in its conjunction, defends those resolutions to the ones above before a government that partially completes or incompletes some of the motions approved here. Therefore, as I said, at the first point we cannot agree; at the last we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.136.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Next, has the word Mr. Roger Torrent, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.137.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, I must admit that today Mr Carrizosa has at least made an intervention with a length that is not what we are used to doing when I come out here at the Faristol. At least today, it didn't seem particularly beautiful to me or to you, as it does to me in other interventions that he does and, therefore, that I have to recognize, huh? That he's set us up today, we could say so, a little nicer. Now, after this to a little more kind, he has defended a young man who is obviously leaning on, basically, two fallacies, for us, two lies that what they want is to try to contribute to generating a mental_framework, which is what many of you want to convey to society, which is what you want to end up incorporating into the context of this country's public opinion. And, therefore, and taking advantage of this good with which Mr. Carrizosa has given us today, I will try to follow a little with this line and plant it, too, in a good way, which are the fundamental reasons for which this young man who presents us today relies on two lies. The first is that it is absolutely not credible – credible people, in fact – that we talk about dialogue, that we talk about cooperation, that we talk about the willingness to solve problems – particularly, they talk about financing – through the institutional dialogue, the inter-administrative dialogue. It's a lie, I say, not just because, in the background, you don't believe it, but that, if that wasn't enough, it turns out that your members in Madrid, the president of the Spanish Government, that you invested, your members of the legislature in the Congress of Deputies – that is, the PP – are already taking care to contradict them; they are already taking care to effectively deny what, in some way, you want to translate into this young man. Not many days ago, President Rajoy himself, the one you have invested, said that he could talk about everything; he showed a willingness to talk about everything – therefore, about this dialect you are talking about – but that, in any case, it was not possible to talk about a new fiscal concert, it was not possible to talk about a new statute, nor, even less – it would only be missing – it could talk about a reference; therefore neither finance, nor state, nor democracy. I can't talk about everything. She's lying, so there are open dialogue lives, because she can't talk about everything. It cannot be said that the citizens of this country are actually concerned. More than 80 per cent of citizens and citizens of this country want a reference, and precisely this element, which is essential, from a point of view of social demand, in Catalonia, precisely this point is a point that cannot be talked about. So, what dialeg are you talking about, Mr. Carrizosa? What dialog does it look like? What dialogue does the Government of the Generality have if the other gang is not even expected to have a willingness to listen and a willingness to talk about what it affects, what they feel, what they really want Catalans and Catalans to do? And, in any case, you who speak, make use of the expression, in this case, of solving differences, I ask, in high view, in this chamber: what better way is there to solve the political differences, the institutional differences, the differences between governments, the differences in whether society, than at the polls? What better way to solve the differences than voting? What better way to solve the differences than democracy? Therefore, elections, referendums, ballot boxes, ballot boxes. This is a key element in the requests of the Catalan society and it is permanently obvious when it is prohibited in the inter-administrative dialog. This is one of the lies, of the two lies on which his youth is supported. There's no dialog, there's no dialog, there's no dialog, there's no dialog. The other lie, the other falsehood, is to try to make it look like this is a government and this is a little transparent Parliament, and this is absolutely false – this is absolutely false. This Parliament voted, made one of the most advanced transparency laws in Europe. And it would just be missing, not the government, if the assembly of the deputies and deputies doesn't care about this law, let's not apply this law. And as long as we apply this law! I just don't want you to apply this law. Who are they taking us for? Who do they take the deputies and the deputies of this Parliament for? Who do they take this government's advisors and advisors for? Obviously, we'll make the law complete. Obviously, we'll complete the law of transparency. And, in any case, you, who have come out here today to defend transparency, it turns out that yesterday, yesterday itself, you refused to vote on one of the great transparency instruments that we have in this Parliament of Catalonia, which is the commission of inquiry into the gross war, the commission of inquiry into the Catalan operation, which is precisely what you want to put on one of the darkest and most tiring episodes of the democratic history of the Spanish State. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.138.0	Thank you, Mr. Torrent. Next, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.139.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Carrizosa, with all the sincerity of the world, I believe that you should have begun this intervention by giving a warning to Parliament: "Warning to Parliament that any appearance between the inquiry and the motion is mere coincidence. But, gee, we're not going in here. We're going to discuss the motion and it's already here. We've done some papers to show you what you've always done. We always take seriously the things that all groups do, obviously; without any kind of distinction. We share a starting point, and we have a hard problem, a problem of lack of cooperation and institutional loyalty between administrations, and end up feeling something that ends up paying the citizens. And then, from this point of view, I think that what can happen from the beginning is the image that is simply being blamed on each other. Among other things, because this is a problem that doesn't come up. There are difficulties; human beings have difficulties, and institutions, in establishing cooperation. And from this point of view we agree on this issue. Now, I think your wife, especially in the first apartment, has a clearly visual dysfunction problem. I mean, man, honestly, I don't know what I'm doing here from an overstatement that some call victimism, but placing responsibility for the lack of cooperation between administrations and placing the Government of the Generality in place to resolve the differences in the framework of cooperation and administrative cooperation is a little ironic, not to say in another way. We don't all have to be conscious. Who has clearly made a strategy of conflict, of provoking it, of feeding it, of even living politically out of this conflict – not with a government, but in general – with a part of the Catalan society has been the PP and the government of the PP. And not this one. He made it very clear with the subject of the State and continued to do so. That's why we put together a set of items that we thought were logical. And with this aside we have suggested that I think that here we have to put ourselves in the opposite direction, that what we have to do is demand that the Spanish Government respect the mechanisms of cooperation and collaboration. Yes, we have to. And if you had accepted the speech to the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we would have voted for it too. Why? Because one of the mechanisms, too, to demand this cooperation is, for example, to demand that the judgements of the Constitutional Court that give the right to Catalonia be supplemented and, in turn, that they are not developed from this perspective. I sincerely believe that here you have made that mistake or vice that imputed you some time to other groups in the chamber. It's having a little distorted vision of reality. That is why we – we have not been accepted – cannot vote on this part. With the other sides, we've presented them with papers, which, as it turns out, would accept us. Specifically, in apartment number 2 what we have done, quite simply, is to lay down more broadly what we believe to be the spaces of cooperation, and that we can use them, because it is essential. And, consistent with that, we have also suggested a rewording of points 3 and 4 with a new text that we have proposed; that, for what you seem to have told me, they will also accept. Because, I told the government at the time and I'm back to say it now, I think it's a deep irresponsibility that Catalonia at these times does not participate in the organs that the current structure of the State has foreseen. I think it's irresponsible, because... and I think it's perfectly legitimate to do so at the same time that some people are asking for a change in the political status of Catalonia. It's perfectly legitimate! Actually, it's what Mr. Junqueras does, for example, as vice president of the government. Mr Junqueras, and with this double life that characterises him, therefore, is able to be constantly asking for his claims; but, in change, he goes to Mr Montoro and manages to pay him 480_million euros, depending on the FLA, extraordinary, to close the year 2016. And it seems to me that it does well because, ultimately, so, if Mr. Junqueras does these things and he participates in some things, that you don't do Captain Spider and you don't make them do to the other members of the government what he doesn't, I mean, from this point of view. It's just that sometimes I think it's the only one... well, I don't want to put myself on things that don't touch me, but, God-in-law, right? So, yeah, yeah, I think we should go to all places. Among other things, because all the places where the interests of the citizens of Catalonia are played, the Government of the Generality must be there, even though it is clearly opposed, even though it is still voting against it. And from this point of view, this does not exclude bilateral cooperation spaces; and bilateral spaces, which we have clearly defended here, because multilateral cooperation and bilateral cooperation are two of the same coin of a model that, if used, can work very well. At 5 we will give support to your plantation. Just 'you're the one who got the subconscious, huh? Pardon me, Mr. Carrizosa, because... when you've made the list of the amount of resolutions that the government doesn't complete, you've forgotten that of educational concerts with elite schools of Opus Dei and Legionaries of Christ by reason of sex. They remember, don't they? From that young man? So, this, it's approved, even though it's by mistake. And, therefore, this one, to you, has forgotten it. We remember her from this point of view. And lastly, with regard to the other side, look, we've made a statement. Why? Because it seemed to us that, of course, to set up a resolution almost – almost – for just Ciutadans, so it didn't seem right to us, from this point of view. And we put a proposal to him – you don't see it, you tell us you don't accept it, this – and we had serious doubts whether to abstain or not. But, in view of the answer given yesterday by Mr Raül Romeva to the question you asked him, which I believe he did not convince anyone in the Chamber, nor himself, because he was aware of the insecurity with which he pronounced it, and as if in doubt... – in transparency – in doubt, to the right of Members and Members, we would also vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.140.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Then, in order to fix his position, has the word Ms. Andrea Levy, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.141.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carrizosa, thank you very much for the introduction of this motion, which is similar but not the same as I presented at the previous plenary session. And it's okay – it's okay – I think that the opposition groups keep insisting that it's necessary, that it's good, that it's positive to find those spaces of cooperation between the Government of the Generalitat and the Government of Spain, because, although here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, here, in the Government of the Generalitat, some think that they live in a bubble held in time, time passes, time advances, and Catalans must have answers and have solutions on the part of their political class. The truth is, I've been graced by the statement. I hadn't fallen. A year, a year of government. The doubt is: who is being made longer this year? Because the truth is some people are getting a little heavy. You will understand me, but it's that every time we come here you have us used to the historical days. I would recommend that you be a little more cautious about the historical days, because in the end you will end up boring the people of so much historical day. But what I'm afraid is that you need the historic days, the fireworks, the lights, the saucers, the bombs, the red carpets to try to see if so, if in this way, you entertain us, distract us and encourage us while you do absolutely nothing. Yesterday the President of the Generalitat said that the hamster... that the hamster, the one that turns around, the one that is permanently in the same circle, had already left the wheel. Yes, of course he's out of the wheel, the hamster! It has come out to run away from you, because it is completely boring already always the same, the same issues and that it does not move forward. Because do you know what's going on? That what doesn't go anywhere, doesn't move. And they know it. And that's exactly why you're trying to distract us with..., yes, issues that seem to be..., you're getting shot at the feet, and so divided and so wrong you're proving to be acting lately. Look, before his haste, before his sticks of blindness, at our intelligence; before his provocation, at our prudence. That is what the Government of Spain will have. We're not going in, believe me... we're not going into any of your dialectic climbs. We are not going to enter any of the provocations that you want to do to distract us from what is happening, not in this camera, but very close to it – very close to it. Because, do you know what's going on? You change the acronyms, but you're the same and you're not fooling anyone at all. I regret, by the way, that Mr Junqueras is not here, perhaps the one who learns the lesson better; perhaps the one who has shown, if not more intelligence, more tactful than some members of this Government, who knows that, in the face of the dead end, who knows that, in the face of the wall of reality, we will have to give the Catalans an alternative plan. And if you fail, and if everything you propose doesn't get anywhere, don't you think the Catalans would at least deserve a decent exit to the great lie of the Government of the Generalitat? You've been doing nothing for a year. You have been the government of absence and the government of omission for a year. And I am not surprised by what the motion says, which does not even respect what is voted on here, what is voted on in this chamber. You can no longer appeal to the clash of legality, you can no longer blame it on others. If the blame is on your..., the mistake is made with your own regulations and your own laws. But, you know? In the face of your omission, in the face of your absence, there will be control of all the parliamentary groups that we want to continue working for the Catalans; of all the parliamentary groups that we are not going to let the time stop for Catalonia and for Catalonia; of all the parliamentary groups, that with our differences... – and, yes, Mr Coscubiela, I thank you very much for continuing to cooperate in this type of motion, because that is the difference – we can be very different, but one thing unites us: working for Catalonia, which is of course what you do not do, and you lie. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.142.0	Thank you, Mrs. Levy. Next, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.143.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you very much. In the first place, he stood on the balance of a year of government, no one escapes that a country does not have in five points, has much more complex the reality that we live than the effort of synthesis that you have made. I think more than just talking about the balance of a year of government, it would be a balance of a year of opposition, because it's a young man looking at you and not at the country, right? One has the time to look at the first three points, because everyone has agreed that this young man has three different parts, huh? Let's go for the first part, the first three points. And you have the time to read it carefully and say, "Clearly, how come you didn't come? That's enough! I mean, the precarious situation, the housing issues, right? , the difficulties that there is obviously in education, the situation that suffers from sanitation, the situation that we live with the women of great inequality, that yesterday, all the while going out to the street in a massive way, we stayed another time covered for the men behind a pilot and so on, this is the result of meetings convened in Madrid, of course! I mean, all this popular movement that's accumulated from the last few years, not just, is it? , the one who claims the right to decide, but the first of the most combative, the 8th of March Massius, pass because we go to Madrid, to gather us ; pass because we appoint representatives to the commissions ; in short, they pass to continue with autonomy. We, who have been campaigning on the independenceist left for so many years, do not find that everything we claim is resolved with bilateral commissions and cooperative arrangements with the State. And then you say, "No, the problem of the bottle," said the lady Levy, "you have it, that it seems like it's a eighty-year settlement, when there was a certain sense – for some, for us no longer – to defend autonomy, to defend coffee for all, to defend the creation of a nation that you have come to believe with these accounts, also, that Spanish historiography has been a recurring one. This no longer responds to what the majority of this country claims. It's just that the majority of this country is not that we name a representative of a state commission, it's not that the president of the generality is gathered and asked and treated, so, as a more colony, that's what the state does with its nations. In the eighties I understand that there were a lot of people challenging the Transition. It was too little people who challenged the Transition, they're right. Small masses of people who have no longer created the party pact and the pact of the big union centers, that's true. But fortunately, right now we've overrun the logic of autonomy and we understand that the problems they have a good part of the population... not everyone, huh? There are people who live very well and will continue to live very well, more independently of whether the rule of self-government is over or not; but the majority of the population is resolved to our material conditions of life if we challenge the European Union, if we challenge the capitalist economic policy of the Spanish State and if we challenge patriarchy. But you're still in your 80s, that you had good things, huh? Especially the music. Next to eighty years. With respect to point 4, compliments to the motions. We agree. The motions that go into this chamber are because it's complete. But you have forgotten an important detail in your intervention, and I stress it, to help you complement your intervention: you do not just say that everything that has been approved is fulfilled, they say that it is done within the maximum of one_month. And here's where the problem is. Why this late, just this late, it's been a while, there was a meeting with the university secretaries to see what we're doing with the approved motion, huh? , in relation to university taxes. He knows we're for free, imagine's. And if this is done in a_me, the universities have a problem. We don't say it, the rectors say it. You weren't there, in this meeting, maybe that's why there's a part of the reality of the universities that are missing. Point 5 respects transparency. We agree. In fact, we simply reiterate that what is already provided for in the Rules of this chamber is satisfactory. So we'll give it support. Now, the third point, that of the external action memos, that I've already voted for, I think two times, if I wasn't wrong, at CAI, huh? I may be wrong, but I've already voted for this at CAI. The one you lose in commission pretends to win it again. And it's just... you know what's going on? That you don't know why you're so interested in the external action of a counselor that you're not a minister, you don't do external action, you don't have the skills to do it. Don't you always say that? That we're not a country and we're not a country to go from you to the world? So the memos don't have to have any interest, if they don't answer to the world, you always say so. You always make a fool of yourself when we talk about the world. Therefore, we will vote against, as we have done on other occasions, and I would reiterate its great contradiction: these memoranda must not contain anything of interest, surely, because there is no one in the world who is interested in the situation of the Catalan Countries and there is no one in the world who is interested in what people say massively in this country. People in the world just have the guts to listen to you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.144.0	Thank you, Mrs. Gabriel. To pronounce on the exams, has the word Lord Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.145.0	Very quickly. Socialist Party, Catalunya Yes, it is Pot and the UPC reproach us that the motion was too short – it was too short. They would have wanted a motion that included developments in government programs... I think that's more like a general policy debate and I think it's very important to highlight what general features have been breached during this year of government in terms of democratic control, and that was what this motion was about. As for what Mr Torrent said, by Junts pel Yes..., well, we already know that you do not want dialogue, for you it is the worse, the better, because you what you want is independence. And he asks me: "What are we talking about? I tell you, look: dependence, funding, infrastructure, health, education. Set yourself if you can talk. And the PP aren't our partners. The PP is the party we have supported with our votes for the inauguration of the president under conditions. We have not done as you, who have gone from partners with the corrupt party; you, specifically, of the Republican Left, are allied with the corrupt party of Democratic Convergence and you have done nothing to reproach this rampant corruption of the party to which you support. We, at least, have supported a committee of inquiry in Congress regarding the funding of which you say you are our partner. Then, "everything is arranged by voting. Indeed; we feel the same. You call elections, because you no longer get anywhere. And finally, the Transparency Act. We're asking the counselors to do it, to do it, huh? Do we have a good Transparency Law? Well, they'll do it. We appreciate the amendments tabled, which we have accepted as much as possible. There has been..., we will see what is voted on in the most important issues, which are proof of the democratic quality of this government. They have already announced to us that the opposition groups, except the CUP, which is supported by the month of the deadline to comply with resolutions that have been adopted for many months, and you are supported by that. Yes, we were at the university funding meeting, university fees. We have been in that meeting; not in the food you have gone to eat today, but in the meeting, and your postulates, logically, we do not embrace you. We're not extremists, we're downtown. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.146.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.147.0	For important contradictions with Congresswoman Levy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.148.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.149.0	Thank you. Ms. Levy, I think you haven't just heard the interventions, because it's obvious that we're betting on non-conflict, cooperation and agreement, and we're not legitimizing anyone you've been elected for citizenship. Now, to believe that you and we agree on something is to have a lot of imagination. But, well, we're not the only ones who didn't get it right. It seemed to me that you were planning today that the PP's B plan, proposed by the PP, after the train crash is the President Junqueras? Because we felt it literally. The truth is that this would be the news of the day and I hope the journalists didn't get past it, because maybe they're interested in this. But, go on, you have the opportunity...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.150.0	Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.151.0	...to clarify. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.152.0	It's been 30 seconds. Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.153.0	To ask for a separate vote from point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.154.0	Point one?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.155.0	Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.156.0	Lady Levy, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.157.0	Mr. Coscubila, you and I... For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.158.0	Yeah. Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.159.0	For allusions. It's just that I thought they were obvious, because as you mentioned...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.160.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.161.0	I thank him – this does not mean that you like me, nor what you think – thank him for all the color you have, in questions that are important to the Catalans, to everyone, you agree that he can address – as we spoke, in fact, to last week's motion – in conferences and bilateral commissions. What I regretted was that Mr. Junqueras, who seemed to me to be on account of the whole and the dialogue and the negotiation, was absent from this room, from this chamber, from this chamber, while we were talking about financing issues, which I think it would be good to have listened to them. Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.162.0	Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.163.0	To ask for a separate vote on points 5a, 5.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.164.0	Okay. A separate vote has been requested on points 1, 5a and 5.b. [[Anna Gabriel and Sabaté ask to speak.]] Mrs. Gabriel? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Do you want a separate vote from point number 4?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.165.0	Exactly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.166.0	All right, then. Points 1, 4, 5a and 5.b. We'll start voting for them, these. And then we'll vote for the rest of the vote. Let's go vote number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 36 votes to 80, with 16 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 60 votes to 61, with 11 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 5.a. The vote begins. Point 5.a_has been approved by 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 5.b. The vote begins. The 5.b_point was approved by 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The Parliament on a year of government has been rejected by 61 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into his actions in Lleida province]] [[302-0120/11]] The twenty-first item on the agenda is: Following the question to the Government about his actions in the province of Lleida, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mr. Jorge Soler. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Please, they're silent and in a hurry, which we need to continue. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.167.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. It's a very happy day for me today because I have had the opportunity to present a very extensive motion with some of the claims that Lleida has. I recognize that it is not customary to present a document with so many points to vote, but, well, the legislature will soon be finished and before it is exhausted it would like to take advantage of it in order to make an assessment of the set of issues that remain with us here. So, I want to thank the effort that Lleida's deputies are making to get all those questions that are likely to get better. And when I say everyone, believe me, I mean everyone. Sometimes it's hard to understand the difficulty involved in doing politics when we come from the moon. In Lleida we must arrive at the political instability and the changes of styles. It is necessary to take the necessary steps for democratic and institutional regeneration, with policies that make it clear that sanitation, education, social services are basic pillars that can be protected. To work for the benefit of our area, which is culturally rich, is plural and well-extended geographically, and with great tourist capacity and with great export interests. It is necessary to increase efforts to continue being a region of prosperity and opportunity for everyone. And that's why today we find a territorial movement that has a lot of axes, of which I would like to highlight the social axis – with education, sanitation, protection of those who go through it badly–; an economic one, because activating and betting for Lleida's economy is crucial, and that's why I included everything related to the primary sector – agriculture, ramederia, autonomes, technology parks, Lleida's university –, and finally a large block of infrastructure that allows us to connect more and better with the rest of the world. Some, which you know, are the competence of the Generality and other states. Although it is a very extensive young man, I wanted to prioritise all those questions that seemed to us to be most remarkable, which is why we have already been able to defend here with our questions, with questions, motions, proposals for resolutions of the companies. It's surprising what gives you a year for some very productive. And obviously, we have left many others where it would certainly be more difficult to find consensus, and that is why I will offer them, obviously, in other debates that allow more concreteness. In social issues, more places of public residence for large people, help people who don't get up at the end of the month and who can't afford their housing. In sanitary matters, I have heard many times that I still have to go a long way to maintain the sanitation that we desire. And that's why I needed to reform the primary care that I brought you and approved here many months ago. Call for replacements and professionals to reduce the list of waits all urgently revert the retailers. I wish that soon the Magraner's barrel could have a facility with face-to-face meth all week long, and that they strengthen other centers that we also know are missing. That Arnau Hospital in Vilanova is finally closed beds. In short, and not to extend'm, that there is a substantial better amount of resources that we allocate to Lleida. In the educational field they know that Ciutadans regrets the chronification of the barracks, the collapsing schools Bressol, the chronic threats of closing lines of P3 or the longing institute of Cappont, which never goes up. Lleida needs a firm bet for agriculture that effectively deploys its rec channels, and that we do politics to facilitate the attraction of young people to rural areas. We bet once and for the locals and entrepreneurs. And to highlight some questions of infrastructure as we work here, here in Parliament, and also in Madrid. There's a lot more strategic in accessing the Pyrenees, making the pending variants, building Lleida's bus station and everything related to the best of the trains. We have spoken of improving the parties, of making works and constructions that if it is fessin serious a great change that would benefit the citizenry. The territory must be more accessible. President, Members and Members, as I am very proud of you, I intend you to come forward and remember that we have all done our best for the better of our territory, with self-esteem, justice and fairness. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.168.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. Next, Mr. Óscar Ordeig has the words to defend the papers presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.169.0	Yes, thank you, President. I jump to the Faristol. Thank you, Counselor, for being here. MPs, MPs, deputy Jorge Soler, thank you for giving us the opportunity to make a reflection that is not as sectoral as we are used to making, but more territorial, more of a conjunction, precisely of a territory which, obviously, has some needs shared in some areas, but specific in some others, because we have a territory, as I always say, Catalonia, a diverse, plural and, obviously, so that public policies also give this focus. In the first place, I think it is important that we place the political context in which we find ourselves. We're in a time of difficulty. We are at a time of uncertainty and, I would say, sometimes aggravation, these difficulties, these uncertainties, in order not to find a clear political project for our territory, for the regions of Lleida, Pirinius and Aran; not the province of Lleida, when the name seems a little archaic, because there is Pirinius, Aran, regions of Lleida, with also very different realities, such as, of course, horrific but also socio-economic. We believe that we arrive at the end of a legislature, for which we have been told by those who support the government and also the same government, with many assignments pending in the field, such as said, socioeconomic, for retail, for lack of investment; for example, we arrive, so obviously..., we start this 2017 with the sad reminder of having the worst given in public investment of the Generalitat since 2010 to the Lleida districts, with a retail of 86_per_cent. The territory was divided as much as the comarques of Lleida, a 86_per_cent. Aware of the difficulties? Yeah. But, obviously, you realize that we have many challenges, that we have opportunities, that we have difficulties, but that we need tools of reversal, of public services and of a clear and concrete strategy. There is no magic formula, but there are concrete receptions and we do not see that the Government has a concrete, coordinated, well-directed and resourced reception for Lleida, for the Pyrenees and the Aran. And we see how we have some marathon motions. And this young man could have three hundred points, because years ago we demanded, once and for all, the essential public equipment, the investment in infrastructure for essential services, and, ultimately, not to be a subsidized territory or sectors, but to be a competitive territory. We'll have a lot of problems if we build a Catalonia with a rural exodus, as the news says a few days ago, where 60 percent of the people of Catalonia are losing their people. What do we want? A massified Catalonia around the great cities, with problems in managing the territory, with problems in producing food, with environmental problems, with a territorial fracture, and, obviously, with a loss of economic opportunities in the country? Balanced territories, with opportunities, and obviously, that is also the engine of economic activity. The data speak: per capita income lower than the middle of Catalonia, to rural areas; the envelope of the middle of Catalonia, and depopulation in some of these regions, also, over the middle of Catalonia. Therefore, it was argued that we did not have self-esteem at the inquiry that was made by Ciutadan's company and that sometimes when we complained that we did not have self-esteem. I believe that the pride of country, the pride of territories, the pride of being of the Pyrenees, of being of the Aran, of being of Lleida, must not be confused with, obviously, being firm in claiming to what is just, what is necessary and what is concrete to the assumptions of the Government of our country. So, we say, do they have models? Do you have reception for Lleida's co-ops, the Pirinius and the Aran? Because it proved to be in this young man, with the twenty points that we have presented, and that we could have presented many more, with those that City and the other groups of Parliament have presented, obviously that there has been a need and fears pending. We do not want a homogeneous centralist view of Catalonia, because we are a diverse – diverse – society, plural and, therefore, we also have a diverse and plural territory that needs specific needs. We need to value people and territories, no matter what we have, no matter where we are. Very quick. Obviously, extensive motion..., we have tried to enrich and supplement with the twenty items. We sincerely appreciate it being accepted. We believe that they bring added value to forestry, with natural parks, with the crisis of prices, with aid for school trips, the displacements of the ills that are to be moved to other hospitals, etc. Please ask the different carriers to support us in trying to have a well-compensated, well-trained territorial movement and, obviously, to get a message for our citizens in this House today. Thank you, President, Councillors, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.170.0	Thank you, Mr. Ordeig. Next, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.171.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors..., well, Congressman Jorge Soler, with all his affection, is a young man who, under my point of view, wants to make a whole series of shortcomings clear, but I think that in some points he lacks rigour and he lacks to fine-tune. And above all, that's what I do as a critic, and now... as a critic to the government, of course, it's a shame that constantly motions have to be reminded of the government that approved resolutions and approved motions are being completed. But I don't think I'm gonna make it either. And I would also like to see you in the other point of view, because that, to me, of empathy, I like it, and, of course, you have to hear that many of the things that in the eighty points and anxiety demand is not possible..., go through a presuppositional theme, go through the assumptions, go through a period of time, have some terms and, therefore, is as well as a statement of intent, but I think that it is known that, from a responsible point of view, it is impossible or impossible to complete them during this legislature, nor..., well, it is necessary to put the thread in order to go little by little, but it is not possible. So, I get it, huh? The penalty is that we have this electoral system we have, in which the territorial deputies would be very good if they could do the accounting, right? , which can be held to account in our territories. This in our system, at the moment, is not possible, we have to go explaining and holding accounts in another way. I suppose a little that you wanted to do is, in front of your territory, to say, "Well, I defend, don't I? That's all we've got. But this is a bit of a criticism I'd like to make of her. For another band, at the expense of criticism too, I thank him that he has incorporated most of our items that are not going to add more points, because there are enough; but to make some small things concrete. First of all, because, for example, the whole agricultural block I think was already very crowded; we approved a young man a little while ago, who was also a young man in our group, but we agreed with everyone, and I think that many of the points were already collected. There's a message from the PSC, which I'm telling you right now that we're voting against it, that you've accepted it, because it's from the 2013-2020 Forest Policy Management Board. Clearly, we in this plaza deny the Major. We believe that this plan needs to be reviewed, because from an environmental point of view we were very critical when the other legislature approved it. And, therefore, we will not approve of this point, because we would like it to be reviewed. We believe that there should be a policy of forest management, but we would appreciate it if it were not that plan. Also on the subject of infrastructure. Look, with the theme of infrastructure you put the list. They're probably not all there, huh? But I'd like to think about the whole issue here that we have questions that depend on the State, and that here you, in Madrid, should be strong because the State is doing these pending investments. But here I remember a few words that your group companion, Mrs Marina Bravo, has always said, and that I repeat here, to see if we can all once and for all, that in the matter of infrastructure a state pact, a pact of birth would be needed... – well, for you a pact of autonomous community or of region, it is the same–, a pact of country– a pact of country – in which all of us really commit to those infrastructures that are priorities and that we have to dedicate to the assumptions. And that we connected, and that you stayed at seven, eight, give years, regardless of whose governments. And this is an idea that your Marine Bravo companion always defends, and that I think that maybe this legislature won't give us time, but the propera – that I don't know who it is, I'll watch it on TV – so that we can all put it there, because I think the country will appreciate it. So here, too, in this sense, so, well. Another thing we'll vote against, back at the ski resorts. Not because we don't like skiing, which we like very much, but some of the ski resorts conflict with environmental issues. Therefore, here we are very cautious; we are cautious, it makes us for this model. We also appreciate you having incorporated the theme of Camp Tarragona, with stops to combine with line 9. And also, and finally, for us, it's very important on the cultural side, apart from that of your Vella, all the file issue..., because, well, now we've found ourselves with the case of Rossello's church, and here, of course..., here at the end the bisbat is the owner of the bell, but at the end, listen, the church always ended up failing to pay. In the end we always end up paying with public money and we don't cover the IBI. So here, then, let's see if they're helping us, and how we're working on this in Congress, too, so let's see if with this point we can get that in the end we're paying, too. I, well, thank you very much. I hope Tarragona's, Mr. Matías, doesn't make it so long, because it'll just give us a lot of work. [[Rialles.]] Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.172.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Grau. Next, has the word Lord Albert Batalla, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.173.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, we are in front of a motion for a resolution. There are eighty points, and then a few more have been added, but if we split five minutes, which is the intervention that we have in parliamentary groups for eighty points, they would touch us between three and four_seconds per point. Three and four seconds to talk about the Segarra-Garrigues; three seconds to talk about the Arnau de Vilanova; three seconds to talk about the social need of our communities, three seconds to talk about the Alt Pirineu and Aran, which you certainly posed as one block more; three seconds to talk about the C-14; three seconds for professional training; three seconds for the branchers and farmers; three seconds to talk about the Morera Museum..., and we could continue. You want to get rid of a young man all that has to be discussed and all that has to be agreed on the territory of Lleida, Pirinius and Aran. Well, it's all about priorities. I honestly believe that this young man's priority, more than debating and resolving, is to fight. In view of this, our parliamentary group had two possibilities: to vote on a 'not at all', as a whole, precisely this way, despite agreeing with some of the points raised, or to go on to make statements because no one can say or make the speech easy that the first group in the chamber is not positioned on the motions in a serious or rigorous way. Someone's got to do it. We have submitted forty-two items to improve the content of this young man. In most cases, to find that whatever you ask, the Government is already carrying it to term or has already foreseen it in the assumption of the year 2017. It is curious because, even so, you ask for things that were contemplated in the presupposition of 2016, but also, with their support, they helped to block. We have presented papers on regadius, agriculture, rural development, better nucleus roads, telecommunications network, research, social services, sheltered housing, sanitation, C-14, C-12, C-13, rail transport, Lleida bus station, Mossos d'Esquadra, prisons, firefighters, university, autonomes, local governments, tourism, culture..., and, obviously, also, Pirineu, not as a block, but as a very firm territorial reality. Many have accepted – very well –, others have traded – very well. From our point of view, this fact supposes a change, in capital letters, respects the catastrophic to which you demonstrated in your inquiry. He painted us the districts of Lleida, Pirineu and Aran as an erm territory, dead, abandoned by the institutions, without presence and without future. Our discussions and their acceptance on its part are supposed to recognize that these communities are a living, active, projected territory with institutional support and obviously also with problems and challenges that can be solved among all. Then came the time to see how it was positioned ahead of the items that other groups have made. And here has arrived, if I may, the entire festival. It has been the letter to the King, where he has not only presided over this action of fulfillment, but has shone in a very clear way the tactic and, finally, the post-truth. They talk, for example, about improving the security of the C-14 on their tram to Tarrega. I spoke to the mayor of Tarrega: "This is done. I knew it and I said it; it's the same, I kept it. They're talking about the Three Bridges. Three Bridges is in bidding process: 47_million euros. Today they're making works at Three Bridges. If you pass, you'll see that there's alternate lanes because they're making jobs. It's the same. You kept it. They're talking about doubling the Pirineus brand. The Pyrenean brand in 2016, despite the fact that the generality went on an extended assumption, has doubled; but it is the same. They are talking about reversing the contract detail to the services of the Hospital de la Seu, which has been 20_per_cent. They made it up! The detail was 4.15_per_cent, much below the middle of the country – they invented it! But the truth about you has to matter a little. They are false data, you know, but they consider themselves more tactical and post-truth than sures and solutions. It's a big deal. This attitude neither helps politics nor helps the territories they say and intend to help. We want a dynamic territory, balanced, powerful, entangled, full of opportunities where it is still worth living there. And, therefore, this will always be our attitude at political time as well. Therefore, Mr Soler, before the meeting, we want to put work, work and work there; before the tactics, we put strategy, present and future, for Lleida, for the Pyrenees and the Aran, and before the post-truth, certainly, and the sure ones will have them very briefly in Parliament with the vote of the premise, where these things that you say defend will vote against their pressure. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.174.0	Thank you, Mr. Battle. Then, in order to fix his position, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.175.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies... Well, Congressman Soler, I'll be honest with you, and it's that, when I listened to the question that I asked Councilman Rull and read the motion that you presented, the truth is that I got a little blocked. I got stuck because, of course, I saw that there the one you..., well, the one you present today with this young man doesn't look like anything other than the Ciutadans election program for the province of Lleida. You've deployed the election program here, and we haven't made it to the elections yet. But, well, it's perfectly legitimate, and we'll give it support. You see, as I understand it, the Deputy Battle has already said, it is very difficult to deal with the multitude of issues that you raise here in five minutes, isn't it? And this strategy of bringing, therefore, I think that they are at the end eighty-one points to vote on questions affecting the majority of government departments, this strategy, as I say, has already been applied by the Socialist Party that in the last legislature, or makes two legislatures. So, you've taken over the replete, you've taken over the replete from the Socialist Party, and, well, you've dedicated yourselves to doing and you're dedicated to doing lençol motions, as you present us today from the province of Lleida, right? The truth is that I started making some statement, some statement, but, clearly, when I saw so many points that already contained the same one, I thought, "Look, what is a Member of the People's Party doing with an election program from Ciutadans? I mean, I didn't have any sense. And besides, I have to tell you, I have to be honest with you: some of these points are the ones that we carried on our electoral agenda. Therefore, a very extensive motion that did not extend further, but in the end we see that you speak of everything, but in little depth. It gives me the feeling that most points are going to be in a statement of intent badly, that yes, it is very good and we like it very much, right? But in the background, I don't know how far, so it'll improve the lives of the Lleidatans. This young man, which in the end consists of eighty-one points with different distances, the truth is that he has a lot to desire from our point of view, right? , because many of them, many points of this motion do not concrete anything. And, look, I want to set you some example, don't I? You, in point 3, in relation to the agricultural area – important, right? , for Lleida – therefore, he speaks, recognizes the effort made by the primary sector in the conservation of natural resources and in the balanced occupation of the territory, etc. See, I don't know, I don't know how far this will improve the lives of the leidatans, recognize this effort; what's important, huh? Obviously, but he'll tell me... Point 52 of the motion, on security... no, 56, on security. He said: « Improve the endowment of Mossos d'Esquadra to Lleida. That's right, take the Junts for the Yes, which says, "with the incorporation of the nine presuppositional promotions. So, you see, they're good enough for you, they're good enough for you, it's raining, but obviously I think it could have gone a lot deeper, right? Well, we think that a good part of the resolutions of this Parliament, so it's true that they are kept in the fallows of the departments and that you have also made an effort to put it here, to give it to know and try that in the end it is done, right? And so much good was that. We're pessimists, but we'll try, won't we? The different elements incorporated, we think that they have just turned this young man into a pot-pot, so..., according to what you have accepted, they don't make good people; on the contrary, what they achieve is to dilute even more the text that you have presented. It is also true that other parties have presented ideas, so we do think that they will contribute to enriching it. Look, at least I hope that this debate will be used to give a toc, a toc of attention to the government because all of a sudden it's with Lleida, which is our province. I know it's hard to say it and to be pessimistic, but it's that Lleida, in many questions, feels abandoned: infrastructure, sanitation, education..., assumptions that every year they're minutes, they're minutes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, don't look at me like that, yeah. And above all the mountain regions, the most disadvantaged areas. Here we usually hear about centralism in Madrid, but I want to leave it patent that Lleida is continuously exposed to centralism in Barcelona. That's why I want to thank you for bringing Lleida to the debate, Congressman from Ciutadans, even though it's only because those who run us have a little more in mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.176.0	Thank you, Mrs. Xandri. Next, the words of Mr. Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.177.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, Councillors, well, I'm sorry I didn't speak to you in Western Catalonia, so most former MPs went to the chamber. Is it certain that Mrs Boya could be here making this intervention, but we challenge the march and challenge the focus that they give to this young man and, therefore, we warn them, to all who will come after, that we will intercalate our local deputies, as you call it, because we do not accept the look and why we will not buy the speech that you change the speech of "Spain steals us" – that we, like CUP, candidature of Popular Unity - Cree are, we have never subscribed – for the "Barcelona" in our clothes and that, somehow, in your port, we report to that famous leridanism as in force at the Franco era and that, in some way, we come to try not to build it mentally? , that of the Ilerden caliu, in which, in some way, the one that was intended was to promote a mena of Ileidatan identity, that would not be precisely Catalan, but that would be a way of living the Spanish trying to link more Lleida with the Aragó than with Catalonia, as in construction, let us say, of the..., as in the form of the historical principle of "divide and conquer". This illerdism, this illerdonic calibre, which we obviously do not share and which unfortunately, therefore, Mayor Ros, still a few days ago, this mayor Ros who governs of the hand of Ciutadans, somehow, glossed, didn't he? In an article in which the French mayor Victor Hellin remembered and who is obviously in the antipodes not only of our ideological approach, but of the Lleida that we build and of the Lleida that we work for. In any case, as we do not accept the mark of the provinces, which we understand is an imposed mark, a mark derived from the Bourbon monarchy, which was done, moreover, on the model of the veggieries, which had been almost undrawn and repealed by the Nova Plant Decree, so we do not buy this focus. Because you end up talking about Lleida – because you talk about Lleida, in the inquiry – but you really refer to a much larger, much more plural territory. But neither do we see that you end up distinguishing the different spaces to which you refer, right? , which are, for one band, the comarques of Ponent, for another, the comarques of Pirineu, for another, the Aran. They are spaces that give from the perspective of healthcare management we have divided them in different ways, that give from the perspective of police management we have divided them in different ways, that from the perspective of teaching management we have divided them in different ways, and to us in the cost very much that we can think about policies "for Lleida. Who are the policies for Lleida? And why should these policies" for Lleida be different from policies for Girona, or should they be different from policies for Tarragona? But what is this layout? Why should we propose... or who are the policies of the camp, the agricultural policies, which you plant for the Garrigues and which are different from the policies they plant for the Conca? Who are the mountain policies that you plant for the Pallars and that are different from the policies that we plant for the Ripollès? Is there any rural policies that can be implemented in Solsones and that we will not implement in Berlin? What is – what is – this scheme that leads us to absurdity, to defend that we apply different policies to each of the parts of Cerdanya, which depend on the province of Lleida and which depend on the province of Girona? What absurdity is this, that of Cerdanya, for example, which is today divided into two states? We, this managed scheme, we oppose it in its totality, the fight, and, moreover, we want to denounce its absurdity and its irrationality. Therefore, we will not endorse this motion in the head of its points, because the focus is on dividing our territory from a Bourbon view, absolutely unjustified and absolutely out of date today. In the process they are that we will open when we follow a Catalan republic, we will discuss in depth how the periphery has to relate to the center or to the metropolis. And in this debate we can argue. I also come from the periphery, if you want to hear it like this, like Girona's city in relation to Barcelona, but..., we can discuss what is the form of territorial articulation of our country. We, in any case, at that time, above all, what we are defending in this process is that there are no new territorial divisions in our Catalan Countries. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.178.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Next, in order to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr. Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.179.0	Well, thank you so much again, President. Thank you all for everything. All the help to make our land grow, which, as you have seen, I admire, cherish and love. I think it's important to thank all of you for the best proposals you've brought to the House. Many thanks especially to what you have submitted and for the delivery that you have made these days finding the many points of agreement that we have achieved. I would like to make a point, I insist, of all the efforts made by the Members of Lleida, therefore, working and because, well, this policy that we are making is also useful for the territory. Well, that's the intention, and I want it to be understood, huh? It's obvious that still, so, some have not just paired well that Catalonia has opposition, huh? Which we choose what we ask, which we choose what we do to question, which we ask and make motions, then, which we consider best, because this is opposition. But, in short, many thanks to everyone for the effort you've made. Three seconds in a few points is the time that can change many things in the territory. Well, from the CUP, you know that I never have the habit of saying absolutely no criticism, and I won't do it today. They are surprised, yes, that they do not present any papers... well, and then say that they vote "not at all. Surely, then, well, his politics is much more for the needs of the readers, and these days have been occupied with much more important things than solving things in the territory. So, in fact, I won't comment. I just listened to a speaker who had to feel grateful and not express it was like buying a gift, embolizing it and then not handing it over. And, therefore, today I feel gratitude and I want to give thanks especially to my group, with the help we have made preparing this young man. And in particular I want to give, well, thanks to Congressman Javier Rivas, who started this legislature with me as a repte company and who is now a friend of whom I learn every day. I, so..., Javier, thank you, it's a pleasure, an honor and a pride to be representing Lleida next to you. Finally, a brief comment. [[Widow's remorse.]] Eighty points would go in for a lot of tips, nuances and styles, I recognize that. We accepted a large number of points, we did not deal much; that was the intention. Therefore, President, Members and Members, many thanks to all of you, and especially to all the readers who on 27 September 2015 gave us their trust. Here's a part of our passionate work. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.180.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. We're calling it a vote. As has been said, we have a very long young man: eighty-three points and one underparties. Therefore, we ask them..., the members of the Bureau, please, we recommend that they do not make such lengthy motions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I know that Mrs Hortênsia Grau has asked for it too, but we, as members of the Bureau, also ask them, please, because I know it won't happen, but we could have more than a hundred votes. Thank you. Mrs. Grau, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.181.0	President, for a separate vote... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, point 8..., well, in my case, in our case: 8, 47, 51, 58 bis, 61 and 66, can go in a package– 8, 47, 51, 58 bis, 61 and 66. And 9 a.m. apart. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, these can go in a block, and the 9th... Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And all... yes, these together...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.182.0	Or go on, 8, 47, 48, 51...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.183.0	No, 48, no; 51 – not 48.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.184.0	... 8, 47, 51, 58 bis, 61 and 66 may vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.185.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.186.0	And the 9th?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.187.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.188.0	Another one, aside.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.189.0	Separated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.190.0	All right, all right. Mr. Battle, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.191.0	Yes, President. It's for a separate vote. We would like to vote separately on points 9, 9 ter, 9 quater, 9 quinquies. Then, the 21, the 22, the 23, the 29, the 33, the 39 bis, the 39 ter, the 39 quater, the 39 quinquies, the 44, the 46, the 47, the 48... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.192.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.193.0	Yeah? 48, 49, 51, 54, 58 bis, 60 bis, 62, 71, 72 ter, 72 quater, 80 bis and 83, which are eligible to vote jointly. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.194.0	Here we have one which is the..., then I will repeat everything, but here we have one which is the..., it seems to me that it is the 58a, which coincides with the Group of Catalonia Yes it is I can, therefore, this one should have voted apart, okay? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] One moment, that we'll look now, because this... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 58 bis... [[Pause and voice of the background.]] Match the Junts for Yes and Catalonia groups Yes, it is Pot, who wanted to vote separately, match the 58 bis, 47 and 51. So, if we betray these, we can still vote with both of them... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] See, the deputy Batalla asked me to vote on 21, 22, 23, 29, 33, 39 bis, 39 ter, 39 quater, 39 zinc, 44, 46, 47– but we will vote after – 48, 49, 51– we will vote apart – 54, 58 bis– also apart – 60 bis, 62, 71, 72 ter, 72 quater, 80 bis and 83. Can you vote together, these?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.195.0	Hello? Hello, yes. They can vote together, but some have been left behind. The 9th...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.196.0	The 9th we've already asked that it's a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.197.0	Okay. 9 ter?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.198.0	The...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.199.0	Nine o'clock.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.200.0	Also. These two vote separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.201.0	9 quater?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.202.0	Also, and 9.5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.203.0	9.5, too?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.204.0	Yeah. These are votes apart, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.205.0	And the 21st and 22nd?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.206.0	21 and 22 I've already told them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.207.0	Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.208.0	Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] In any case..., first, we will start by voting at 9... – we will start by voting at 9 –, and after these we have said to vote alone, after the block of Catalonia Yes it is Pot and after the block of Junts for the Yes. So, for now, we're going to vote point number 9. The vote begins. Point 9_has been rejected by 59 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Then, we'll vote for the point number..., the 9th. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 61 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Next, we will vote on 9.4. The vote begins. This point was rejected by 60 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 9.5. The vote begins. Point 9.5_has been rejected by 61 votes to 72, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on 9a point. The vote begins. Point 9a was approved by 112 votes to 21, with no abstentions. Next, we will vote on the number 58a point. The vote begins. The 58 bis was rejected by 51 votes to 72, with 9 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 47. The vote begins. Point 47 was rejected by 51 votes to 72, with 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 51. The vote begins. Point 51 was rejected by 51 votes to 72, with 9 abstentions. Next, we will vote together on points 8, 61 and 66, which were the remaining points of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and they have told us that they can vote together. Okay? (Pause.) Therefore, the vote begins. These points were approved by 113 votes to 10, with 10 abstentions. We will then vote on points 21, 22, 23, 29, 33, 39 bis, 39 ter, 39 four, 39 quinc, 44, 46, 49, 54, 60 bis, 62, 71, 72 ter, 72 quater, 80 bis and 83. [[Albert Batalla and Siscart ask to speak.]] Mr. Battle...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.209.0	President, if I can include 48 in this vote as well, it seems to me that he did not say so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.210.0	Didn't I say 48? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I didn't say it, but I do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.211.0	All right, perfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.212.0	Okay, so, yeah, yeah. There it is – there it is. So, let's start the vote. Well, all these points – not repeat them – have been rejected by 61 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The Lleida Province Activation Movement was approved by 123 votes to 10, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into a Catalan republic of colliding]] [[302-0122/11]] The twenty-and-one point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on a collide Catalan republic, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Cry. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Gabriela Serra. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.213.0	Good afternoon. [[The joker laughs.]] We're exhausted now; we stop time for a while. Well, thanks to the one you're still here. First of all, thank you. There was a young man who we were able to work with enough of the three groups who have set up quite a lot of papers and who have undoubtedly helped to improve it. I'd like to give you a little thought. We have been able, I insist, to introduce different ideas; but, above all, there are three themes that I would like to put on the table and that worry me a little bit, right? In the sense that many times we look and try, sometimes, to beautify very much the things that we are already doing. And you can't beautify what we're already doing a little bit more, a little bit better, don't you? I mean, sometimes, and it goes with other motions, we change the creation to review, to fit, and because I don't know what, when, really, the feeling that's behind it isn't really the same, is it? I think it pays to recognize everything we do well, but it's also important to know that there are things that aren't only better, but they have to be done differently than they are a fan, right? There's another thought that's very grateful to me, and I appreciate it very much, that's Ciutadans, because it really escaped. I mean, citizens remember the CUP - it's a claim that what we have to prioritize and territorialize is the public service... so I'll take the word for it, because I'll propose it to you on other occasions, which is what's public, what's to prioritize, huh? Thank you for that. There is another issue that I also want to deal with, and it is precisely that the Government must design a proper policy of accomplimentation and a suitable catal programme of public refuges. Why am I saying that? I say this because, linked to the intervention that I have been able to make before with regard to the new recommendations and orientations of the European Commission respect immigrants, I want to remind you that when we build – because we talk about making a collide republic, a collide Catalan republic – this program, when we build this programme of our own, that we have to take into account that it is a programme of refugees that will have to flee absolutely, that will have to deny, that will have to oppose and that will have to fight this Europe of frontiers that we believe. Why am I saying that? I'm telling you why there's evidence that they're talkative, aren't they? Hungary has just built 175_quilometres..., with its tank, second tank, with Serbia ; Latvia has also made its tank with Belarus, 92_quilometres; Lithuania, another tank to separate from Kaliningrad, from 30_million euros and ichs kilometers; the Turkish wall with Syria has cost 636_million euros; the wall separating Bulgaria from Greece and Turkey, from 500_quilometres, will be completed in 2019 and started in 2014. And all paid with European Union funds. We have a wonderful company located in Catalonia, Indra, as I said, which is exactly what all intelligence services do to the north border, to Frontex, help, and also made the tanks of Ceuta and Melilla. What do I mean? I mean, when we talk about building this program of ours, as we say, catal, oriented, as we say, to the Catalan Republic, we have to do it with complete freedom, with all the power and with all the determination not to appear in relation to the policies of colliding, so-called "colliding" and "refuge", which today is a fan. Finally, we will talk about the fact that we are also very concerned that we continue to have a great deal of discussion about what we mean by refugees, what we mean by immigrants, what we mean by human rights, what we mean by humanity and what we don't. We should, once and for all, hear that everyone who seeks to live, work and develop is a refugee. Point. Follow what their causes are. And to thank deeply, I say it very seriously, the thought that the Socialist Party has proposed to us, which is, and I say it very humbly and very recognizably, what has personally put me on my hands with the statements that have precisely been made by the European Commission. And it seems to me to appreciate that we are asking to reject, precisely, all these recommendations that are fan, that are recommendations for expulsion, that are recommendations for closure and that are recommendations for impresioning the people who seek justice, seek democracy and seek life. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.214.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. To defend the papers presented, Mr Ferran Pedret of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.215.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, well, as we would like to start the debate this late, there are two motions, presented for the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and for the CUP - Constituent Creed, which somehow have points of intersection. It is true that between all two they take a wider field than they surely do each other separately, as another band is logical, because any initiative, any speeches, also, is limited, sometimes over time, sometimes because of the volume of questions that can be raised in a parliamentary initiative. But in any case, I think that all two, therefore, end up feeling complementarities. And we have the will, and so we manifest, to gather them all together: one, we have already done it; the other is what we have in front to discuss. Look, in your intervention, Mrs Serra, in the previous motion, you refer to all the questions that we have not been able to raise in our intervention, and that is certainly so. We cannot necessarily raise all the questions that arise around the phenomenon of migration, the question of the people who are in search of asylum and refuge. And with his intervention, which has returned to being very interesting and in which he has returned to raise other issues, they also remain pending again, and I am not saying this in the form of a retreat, but we can also talk about the issue of hot returns, we can also talk about the issue of the violation of the principle of non-return, we can talk about a series of violations that are occurring, both in respect of international law in this matter, in the matter of asylum and refuge, as well as in respect of European texts in the field of human rights, which also deal with questions that have, in one way or another, been raised in all two motions. The truth is that we live a moment that makes authentic wounded and authentic shame. And no one is practically saved, except sectors of organised civil society that try to change things, here and many other countries in Europe. Before he spoke to them about the images we saw on the Balkan route, with police on horseback and boys accompanying long columns of refugees, and it seemed that those images were immediately of a sepian or black and white colour, reminding us of the images of the 30s and 40s of the past century. But we have new brown shirts patrolling the streets of central Europe. The Jobbik party, with a 20_per_cent turn vote, has a militia, which is said Magyar Gárda, who parades and patrols through the streets of Budapest and other cities of Hungary with a brown shirt, exactly with the same uniform that he wore to the 30th and 40th years of the extreme right, the Hungarian fascists. And the problem is that we have them patrolling the hunt for the migrant and the refugee, and also the hunt for the gypsy, huh? And we have a very worrying inaction on the part of the institutions of the European Union in this matter. And we also have the heads of state and government of the European Union supporting the agreement between Italy and Libya, in which it is considered Libya, no more or less Libya, a safe country, where migrants and refugees can be returned. Turkey. Who can tell a Kurdish in Syria that Turkey is a safe country for him, with what happens to the Kurdish majority areas of Turkey? Who can say that? Certainly, it puts the hair at the top. It's just that I don't know how else we can express it. And, obviously, you have to invite us all and everyone to action, much more than we can do here. Because here we insist, of course, that the Government of the Generality should act within its powers and that it should ask the Government of Spain to do what it considers to be done in these cases, in the field of its powers, and at the same time the European Commission, etc. But the truth is, it's got to be a lot more than we are. Because day passes, day we project on thousands and thousands of people their first impression of what Europe is and how it will treat them. And it's a terrible picture, the one from underage passing to four bunches under wires to get to a safe place. Look, we, as I said, will give support to the assembly of the young man, with one exception, which is more for a matter of matter than for something else. We, in one of the items we demand, asked you to demand, the complete redesign of the Frontex agency, and you talk about closing it. I'm sure if we had more chance to keep talking about it, we could reach a point of agreement, but here we will simply abstain, because we understand that the resources that are now destined for the Frontex agency would be easier to redirect them than..., close and reopen something else. But, come on, we haven't been able to get along yet, but we haven't given up. Therefore, simply to congratulate them, both groups, for their initiations, and to wish that all that we do here is to convert into reality. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.216.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Next, the words of Mr. Matías Alonso, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.217.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, well, this young man is talking about a Catalan republic of collidation. In a way, then, maybe, if it were just for the title, we'd end up here, wouldn't we? But, of course, it's not the title, the important one in this young man, but it's about people and it's about very concrete situations that... I think we share all the parliamentary groups of this chamber this concern for a humane crisis that still seems that the European Union is not capos..., we're not very conscious..., to exaggerate or calibrate its abyss. Citizens claim... I don't have the clock working, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.218.0	You're right, Congressman. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.219.0	Thank you. Citizens, I say, we call on the European Parliament, and with our partners in Europe, a policy decided to guarantee the right of asylum, and if not the safety and security of refugees, a demand that we started so well that we arrived in Europe, we arrived at the European Parliament, in 2014, that perhaps it was a key moment, because it had not yet sparked the current humanitarian crisis, which seems to be out of control. Therefore, leaving aside the title, we are talking about refugees and people with right of asylum, a humane question that we cannot and do not want to take refuge. And, look, Mrs. Serra, you know that with some aspects of this young man we don't agree, but we have slept with spirit built, in fact, because there are essential questions that affect refugees and people with right of asylum..., so we have looked precisely to seek agreement and compromise. As you know, we've submitted five papers. One of us has already said that they have accepted it; the other has been de facto negotiated, although we have not finally signed the transaction, but we have turned back the experience of our task. You know that we do not agree, basically, perhaps, in the definition of ‘refugee'. You have an extensive definition. Okay. Let us think that, in addition to strictly humane questions, there are migrant people who cannot, at least unilaterally, fit into the category of refugees. And say unilaterally because we are in an international environment and we have a series of commitments in that environment. Because migrants for economic reasons cannot regard them directly as refugees, even if they fight, and bravely, to avoid the causes of this migration and also to resolutely combat the mafias who work with this migration and with these situations as bloody as they are continuously living. The crisis we must face, in our opinion, that which should be subject to this motion, therefore, is the humane crisis. Therefore, include in this very movement immigrants for economic reasons, in a certain way, from our point of view, leaves it a little distorted. But as much as we can't agree with him, we recognize that his young man is made from his own conviction, from his absolute consistency with his vision of this issue and, of course, with absolute good faith. And that's what we appreciate, too. We too have come close with good faith and congruence with the political position we defend Citizens. To a great extent: full equality of rights for asylum-seekers, or those who have right to asylum; welcoming and integrating refugees, they also have the commitments that we have acquired, without ever taking away the commitment to fight to avoid the causes that cause this flight from their homes, and, finally, regulation, according also to our European partners, of the condition of immigrant for economic reasons. We're talking about a question that's very complex, and I've said it a few times since this pharystol, and I'm not the only one, I don't have the copyright, but complex questions generally don't admit simple solutions. And, therefore, some of the proposals that this young man makes, which, let's say, shoot for the right, therefore, play directly with the complexity of these same questions. And I just want to give an example: the European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation at the External Borders, which we usually call Frontex. So, well, it's precisely about this, about a European agency. We are in a _second level of complexity in the Union area that makes it possible, for example, to have an expected requirement, to delete it, as required, that would be neither more nor less than the agreement of all the members of the same Union. So, you've got a pretty big complexity, haven't you? Directives, European Union regulations, agreements, agreements, international treaties and, finally, respect competition is what will ultimately decide the vote; we will ask for a separate vote from a few points and we will give some support, in the others we will abstain, and there will be some 'no'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.220.0	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Next, the words of Ms. Adriana Delgado, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.221.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies and deputies, good afternoon to everyone. Well, first of all, thank Congresswoman Gabriela Serra for her willingness to speak, to listen and to negotiate, and to agree. It was a very interesting and intense debate. Together for Yes it shares the background, the philosophy of this young man, but it is certain that we have presented many papers, some also very technical, and most, by luck, we have managed to deal with them and, as I said, come to a lot of agreement. The will was concrete and to improve our content. We are not talking about beautifying them – I am taking a little bit of this direct, or indirect, that the Member commented on – and, in any case, what we wanted was to compromise us, as we have done before, and we are doing today in Parliament, that we have these two motions on the sidelines, and so is the Government..., to compromise solidarity, with respect and the will to gather and to do so with concrete agreements that we can bring to a conclusion, and much more so, that was given by Companion Ferran Pedret. Some of the most important issues we have presented now I will try to explain to you. The first, this one I understand the honourable Member was commenting on, above all on the subject of beautifying. We wish to "maintain, "maintain the coordination mechanisms, because we understand that there is the Committee for the Reception of Refugees as an advisory, participation and coordination body that does this work. But we also understand, and we accept the criticism that needs to be improved. We need to get better, and so we can come to this agreement to "review," strengthen and" fit, and I think that this will be the compromise that we will have to take. We have put forward a proposal to achieve a hundred, and we have asked for a system of indicators with qualitative and quantitative data, which the Government will share, those data it has, that it does not have all, because from Juntes for the Yes, so we believe that it is better this measure than not to have censuses of refugees, for a question of respect for intimacy, and also for security concerns. For what it does to the territorialization of the services, which have not accepted our mandate, we have proposed to ask the State to decentralize the system of integration and integration, so that until we deploy the Catalan Refugee Programme, the services of care, as you well know, to refugees are provided from the State through specialized entities. And you know..., and we have denounced it on many occasions– and it is only a moment ago in the previous motion, presented by Catalonia Yes that it is Pot –, therefore, we know of the crossings, the slowness and the lack of will, even if they have, they do, the competitions..., on the part of the Spanish Government and the rest of the States members of the European Union. The CUP's motion, of course, speaks of a self-contained policy, and that is why we call for the development of the Catalan Refugee Programme, created for the government, public, but we also add to the actions of social actors in a coordinated way. Because it is proven, as in cases..., like Berga, as is happening in Berga, that the best host of refugees is with the participation and social commitment of everyone. Another important point that backs the movement refers to the study center and evaluation of the impacts of Catalan companies abroad. I'll be one more mike here. This petition, you also know, comes from the unanimous approval of a resolution to the Foreign Affairs Committee, which we worked with entities in advance, and we all worked very hard because, as I said, it was approved for all parliamentary groups. And the government is working on it, to give it a compliment, in a more global country strategy, for the next July, that the same Romeva Councillor explained only a few days ago in a day here in Parliament. In this line, we agree that the study work will be carried out in order to deploy the national business plan and human rights, which will include the creation of this centre as an autonomous public body, as well as a code for the protection of human rights, and that, among other functions, therefore, it will be able to issue reports and study and evaluate the complaints submitted. In short, a little following the line of the company Pedret, on the subject of Frontex, we have also submitted papers so as not to be able to accept the full agreement of the CUP, and in this case what we will do will be to abstain at this point. Finally, I would also like to explain that we will support the agreements that obviously speak of the closure of the CIE, and the idea of the PSC to what the honourable Member Serra refers, which is very interesting, as I said. We will also, of course, give support to address the European Commission in order to convey the mass message of the Catalan voluntary society, as we have already demonstrated at the mass demonstration, and why we are starting the process of abrogating the agreement of shame with Turkey, which this Parliament has already rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.222.0	Thank you, Mrs. Delgado. [[Some applause.]] Next, has the word Lord Lluís Rabell, to fix his position.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.223.0	Thank you, President. As we said before, we will give global support to the youth. I would just like to discuss or approach a point that has been dealt with before and that can be raised. You look, in general, before we tell you, presenting, discussing the previous motion, which was raised, asked directly, as Members, as Members, on whether we would be able to, from this institution, respond to the cry of civil society that was manifested in the streets of Barcelona. That call from the Catalan civil society was also listened to and had an international response. Therefore, it is not only this Catalan civil society that is asking us... who is asking if we are at the height of the circumstances, but also that we have the look of the international public opinion, after that demonstration in our streets. And this is so significant that, effectively, as we move forward in the debate, in the debate of these motions – not only at these times, but in the previous debates – I believe that little by little we are aware of, and this chamber is only, of a complex reality, that it is the reality of the crisis that is going through Europe. In fact, when we talk about refugee crises, we're not talking about a humanitarian crisis, we're talking about a political crisis, too, major, and the civilization of the European Union, huh? , and Europe. In fact, every time we join more than the other against which walls, fronts and tanks rise, the other we are also. In fact, what is at stake is the future of political democracy in Europe at these times. Through this crisis..., it is serving as a catalyst and as a teller, a little like a lamp in the dark night light and turns a reality that had been transforming, and that suddenly and again we see it with all its cruelty – with all its cruelty. Finally, around this question, there are emerging and polarizing movements of public opinion and movements of extreme right, as has been said, to weigh on governments, to weigh on the decisions of institutions. I would like to recall..., asking the honourable Member for a little effort in memory, how the positions of the European institutions have evolved in the last two years until they come to issues such as the agreement with Turkey, the position with Libya, the connivance and tolerance respect for absolutely anti-democratic migration policies as they have now occurred. Two years ago, the European Union was calling for attention before things that are now, in fact, authorizing or tolerant. Therefore, we are faced with a difficult, difficult problem, and in this sense and in these circumstances the view of an institution such as the Parliament of Catalonia talking about this, and it is making itself felt, and taking up on its own the call of the Catalan society, has much to see and has much to say to European democratic societies. Because effectively our future and our destiny is at stake here. And we could say that somehow, without wanting to exaggerate the parallelisms, it seems almost the fate of our country to go against the evolution of European opinions, huh? It's not the first time in history we've met. So much so that we know how to give it a fall and give it a positive outcome, and European civil society and democratic forces react as they do. Just say one thing in that sense. We'll give support to the assembly of the young man. The thought that was proposed by the PSC's companies and what it does to Frontex seemed reasonable to us. It's true that we don't have time to do all the background discussion here. Perhaps this has to do, in part, with the fact that we have not had time to delve into the debate, and also with what there is a debate, sense of doubt, and an opinion..., different views on the approach to the situation in Europe and the European Union. We were once more supporters, and that is why it seemed reasonable to us to work in the sense of decency and of regret over the evolution, in a democratic sense, of the European institutions. Because everything you want to see with one, let's say, closure, is said here... – if you say ‘closure' – well, we understand, we share the concern of the companies of the CUP, huh? , a substantial change of policies respects how to act in the Mediterranean Sea ; with attitude and with policies of rescue and not of protection and acting as if we are being threatened militarily by hostile barbar invasion, eh? And that's it. That's what we share. Even so, the orientation that we will have at some point really to debate is whether we are working in the sense of regret to democratise and transform European institutions or not, because ultimately these extreme right-wing movements are also straining European institutions and can make it implosion, but not in a sense of replacing it by more progressive institutions, but in the sense of national withdrawals. Therefore, the way we discuss..., and so on, in the criticism of European policies is important that we fine-tune it, to say it in some way, if I may be allowed that expression. It's been... In this sense, we'll also abstain at this point. But we'll give you support. And we really appreciate the effort you have made to build a motion of these characteristics, which I think will have a resuscitation: the resuscitation that is deserved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.224.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Next, the words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.225.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, MPs, MPs, as I explained during the debate on the motion for a resolution in Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, the drama of Syrian refugees has to ask Europeans very deeply. It is a great human drama of immeasurable abst, as Congressman Pedret was able to convey in the previous debate. It's a drama that demands an intelligent response. The solution to this situation does not go so far as to open borders without control, as some propose; nor does it go so far as to play the game to the dealers' mafias, even if it is not in a non-volgued way. I have said this before: we are all firmly convinced that in the defence of human rights no concessions can be made, so it is also necessary to act with all the ethics of responsibility. The solution to the migration and refugee crises is, at least, triple, and it passes at least through the resolution of the conflicts that cause these mass displacements. A solid, rigorous and realistic policy of gathering together to give a refuge to the suffering of so many people and collaboration in security and development with the countries of origin and step of the people affected. I think with the refugee drama we have to run away from partyism, and I honestly believe that we've been able to do it lately. We need to escape political corrections that claim open borders without explaining the consequences and we also need to flee and we need to denounce xenophobic populisms. It must work with humanism, seriously and with all possible collaboration. I say this because I know it's hard and I think it's a bit aesthetic– and I've already denounced it–, the speech that the Generality makes sometimes, and that in the previous debate also made a deputy of Junts for the Yes, to justify secessionism with an infinite supposed bondage of the Generality to refugees, comparing it to a supposedly perverse state. Demagogy doesn't help solve problems. We are fortunate that beyond these speeches there has been collaboration and progress in solving problems between the Government of the Generality and the Government of Spain. But you have to tell the truth, you have to tell the whole truth: the generality was proclaiming to everyone that it wanted to gather, like at least 4,500 refugees. Resources have been spent on this propaganda, and the truth is that the Government of the Generality has only offered 301 real seats to embrace them. The Generalitat has only introduced to the national system of reception and integration, since it coordinates the care of refugees, two housing resources with a capacity to accommodate 301 people: 125 places in Manresa and 176 in Barcelona city. More than half of these spaces aren't on condition, so we can only talk about a hundred and fifty seats. There are governments in Europe of communities, regions, Länder, which do not agree with what their states have granted. Some believe that the European Commission and these states are very hard; others, in change, believe, for what it is, by the pressure of populism, that they are all mass. But there is no regional government in Europe that is making a speech with so much enthusiasm, there is no government that spends more resources on propaganda than on helping people. Finally, I also want to give some data that deny some speeches that claim to discredit Espanya's welcoming will. There are different lives to get to Spain for the asylum seekers. On the one hand, there are relocations and resettlements, and on the other, people arriving in Spain for their own means and asking for asylum. We are, for example, Spain, the sixth with the most effective relocations, those of refugees from Italy and Greece. And, respect the people who arrive for their own media, that is to say that the year 2016 was processed in our country, in Spain, more than 22,000 asylum-seekers. I say this because there are not only Syrian assilats in Spain, there are thousands of assilats from other countries, some of which do not want to talk or recognize them, for example in the case of Venice. Spain is, therefore, a host country and we need to work because it is more and better, but it tells the whole truth. And, by the way, speaking of Venice, more than a year and a half ago, Venice did not pay pensioners abroad. This also involves a human drama. This situation is leading to the desperation of hundreds of Venetians living in Catalonia. And do you know what the humane response of the UPC has been? Consider them refugees in this broad conception? No, his answer has been to veto the view of these pensioners who do not cover the pensions of the External Action Commission of this Parliament of Catalonia, it has been to try that they do not come to Parliament to explain their problems, it has been to try that it is not given a solution to a drama that is leading to death retired Venetians who see Catalonia. It seems that for the CUP there are first-class immigrants and second-class immigrants, who are those fleeing their friendly dictatorships. That's not coherence, that's not humanism either. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.226.0	Thank you, Mr. Milián. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the lady Gabriela Serra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.227.0	Thank you, President. Ouch, sir! The People's Party doesn't know what the CUP would do without to articulate its political discourses, because, if not, it would be difficult, that. Well, first of all, apologize, Matías Alonso, because it certainly was a transcriptional error and we couldn't figure out your point, that precisely being able to cover it from among the young man was important and I had felt, very much felt, to do it. There are two fears I want to play again, right? All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all right, And that's to say: when we talk about prudence, when we talk about the peril of the extreme right – that it's not peril, that it's a reality, or it's, it's already, it's not something that's going to come, it's something that's already come – when we talk about democratising the European institutions, when we talk about whether this is going to make us go with, I don't know, it seems like we're talking about prudence, I say it a lot, because sometimes prudence goes to tolerance and tolerance goes to acceptance. And in the end so much prudence ends up making us tolerant and, therefore, ends up betraying us precisely with the causes we defend, right? Because I think that with the extreme right that it grows and increases Europe, and that it lays walls, and that it finances walls, and that Frontex finances, it is not a problem to deal with the issue of refugees, it is a problem to talk about values, to talk about causes, to talk about capitalism, to talk about bellicoseism, to talk about military industry, to talk about multinationals, to talk about transnationals, to talk about a whole series of causes that are the origin and that are part, many times, of this malaise. And the excuse that can channel, and that can be used, and that is manipulated, and that is program and all, is to use the last, the smallest, the most harmed because this is the enemy. Ultimately we will end up fighting, as we have seen many times, disadvantaged, disadvantaged people with disadvantaged people, impoverished people with impoverished people. They won't find us here – they won't find us here. In this democratisation the European institutions will not find us there. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] They won't find us. [[Rialles.]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.228.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.229.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 5.f.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.230.0	Mr. Alonso, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.231.0	Yes, Madam President, for a separate vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.232.0	What's the point?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.233.0	...of the point..., of a few points: the point 1.d...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.234.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.235.0	...points 2.a, 2.b, 2.c and 2.d...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.236.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.237.0	...point 3, points 5.b, 5.c, 5.d, 5.e, 5.f... And, from point 5.g, the three apart, the three apart that has point 5.g. And then, for another band, points 6 and 7. These points can be grouped; if you want, I'll tell you the cluster we're planting. [[Pause.]] You could group, for a band, the point 1.d, the point 3, points 5.b, 5.c, 5.g...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.238.0	See, all these together? : 1.d, 3, 5.b...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.239.0	No..., 5.b, 5.c... is: 1.d; point 3; 5.b; 5.c; 5.g, second apart; 5.g, third apart, of a band. I, from another band, could group: the 2nd; the 5.d; the 5.f; the 5.g, first apart, and the 6th and 7th, points 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.240.0	I'm going back to saying, the 2nd...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.241.0	2.a; 5.d; 5.f; 5.g, first apart, and finally points 6 and 7 of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.242.0	And on 2.b, 2.c and 2.d should they vote separately? [[Pause.]] 2.b, 2.c and 2.d? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.243.0	To ask for a separate vote from a point I think it hasn't asked, which is 1.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.244.0	What? 1.c?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.245.0	1.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.246.0	No, he didn't ask.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.247.0	And then two points that I think maybe they've asked, that they're the 2nd and the 5th.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.248.0	The 5th and 2nd have asked, but they have asked to vote together with other points. Maybe we should take a separate vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, It's not good.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.249.0	Yeah, because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-09-3102.250.0	So, ask that these points... so maybe we'll vote for it all separately, huh? Points 1.c, 1.d, 2.a, 2.b, 2.c, 2.d, 3, 5.b, 5.c, 5.d, 5.f, 5.g, 5.g.1, 5.g.2, 5.g.3, 6 and 7. I think we should vote separately, because they already say that together they're not good. We'll see if we can vote together, but... see if we can make some joint vote. In principle, we start by voting point 1.c. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 1.c. The 1.c_point was rejected by 40 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Then, if 'nsha said that point 1.d was able to vote together with point number 3. Did you agree to vote jointly on the 1.d with the 3? [[Pause.]] Can you vote? [[Pause.]] So, let's go vote together on point 1.d and point number 3. The vote begins. Points were approved by 97 votes to 10, with 24 abstentions. Then again, it was also said that they could vote together... to see if we could vote together on point 2a and 5.f... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, So, let's go vote point 2.a. The vote begins. Point 2.a_has been rejected by 37 votes in favour, 95 against and no abstentions. Then they can vote together – I tried, huh? – the 2.b, 2.c and 2.d? [[Pause.]] Yeah? So, we vote on 2.b, 2.c and 2.d. The vote begins. Points 2.b, 2.c and 2.d were approved by 98 votes to 10, with 24 abstentions. Next, could we jointly vote on points 5.b, 5.c and 5.d– 5.b, 5.c and 5.d? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? So, the 5.b and the 5.c. So let's go vote together on 5.b and 5.c– 5.b and 5.c. The vote begins. Points 5.b and 5.c were approved 97 votes in favour, 10 against and 24 abstentions. Now we will vote, it seems, only point 5.d, which was the petition that was to vote for it alone. So, let's put the vote to point 5.d. The vote begins. The 5.d_point was approved by 98 votes to 34, with no abstentions. Now we'll vote... it also seems that you can't group point 5.f. You have to vote sun, don't you? [[Pause.]] So, we vote on point 5.f. The vote begins. Point 5.f. has been rejected by 10 votes in favour, 34 against and 88 abstentions. Now we're voting points 5.g..., can you group with 5.g.1, 5.g.2 and 5.g.3? [[Pause.]] No, no, So, we're voting point 5.g– see what I'm trying to do, huh? Go on, start voting on 5.g. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me? [[Pause.]] No, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, there was a separate vote of 5.g and then 5.g.1, 5.g.2 and 5.g.3. Okay? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No – no – I did not vote. No... if no one voted, I did not say « start voting. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] All right, all right, then. It was approved by 95 votes to 10, with 1 abstention. Next, we vote..., can you jointly vote 5.g.1, 5.g.2 and 5.g.3? [[Pause.]] No, not either, okay. Go, so, 5.g.1. The vote begins. 5.g.1_has been approved by 98 votes to 34, with no abstentions. 5.g.2. The vote begins. 5.g.2_has been approved by 98 votes to 10, with 24 abstentions. We shall now vote on 5.g.3. The vote begins. 5.g.3_has been approved by 98 votes to 10, with 24 abstentions. Points 6 and 7 can be voted together? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If points 6 and 7 can be voted together. Yeah? [[Pause.]] So, the vote begins. Points 6 and 7 were approved by 98 votes to 34, with no abstentions. And I don't know if there's any leftovers. And now we're voting for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on a Catalan accompaniment republic was approved by 122 votes to 10, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Thank you all very much. And the session goes up.
