ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e30	On Thursday 28 April, an application for study leave has been submitted by the Workers' Party Group to the representative Sverre Myrli. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Anita Orlund, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e48	Anita Orlund is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e62	I'm going to present a position that is really from the majority of the presidency, all except Akhtar Chaudhry. That doesn't mean there's a minority that doesn't want new homes for the representatives. The difference is that we are interested in the fact that Stortinget buys 38 small large apartments in Maridalsvegen 17, i.e. in one block, while the minority will have apartments spread around in different farms. The background to the proposal for decisions on the table today is that we have had a trend where the demand for family apartments has been falling. Many of the family apartments are currently used by representatives living alone. Both good communication offers and other things make fewer representatives move with family to Oslo. We've also been given not exactly a generation change, so at least several younger staging representatives. The need has therefore changed over time from the need for family apartments to the need for small, central commuting homes, to say so, and the presidency now believes it makes sense to replace some of the large commuting homes with less apartments closer to the Storting. The size can now buy 38 apartments in Maridalsvegen 17 for 129.9 million. kr. With furniture, furnishings, garages and various technical and safety adjustments, the cost is estimated at 141 million. kr. The sale of 42 apartments is planned and the revenue from this sale is expected to be well balanced for the purchase price of new apartments. Overall, we believe that this is going to be a much better solution. The Presidency stresses that the new commuting houses should have a sober standard and that financial considerations should also be taken into account when assessing which dwellings are to be sold. As I said, the majority of the presidency – all except Akhtar Chaudhry – consider it positive that the Storting can thus reduce the number of individual apartments we have in different communities, in favour of gathering several in one building itself. So this is where we're separating layers. Operation and maintenance will be easier and both access control and telecommunications and data infrastructure will be cheaper. At the same time, we avoid dissatisfaction with the fact that the population of the population is not participating in housing in the same way as permanent residents. And it's probably the case that most staging representatives have such a wide contact area that this won't seem isolating in any way. At least we think this is going to be a better solution and a good solution. Maridalsvejen 17 is not very far from the Road of Peace, for those who are known in that area. With this, we recommend that Stortinget take a decision according to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e77	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3752]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e93	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e104	It's not been ten years since Norway first sent soldiers to Afghanistan. Since then, ten Norwegian soldiers have been killed in the country and a significant but currently unknown number of soldiers have also been injured. A lot has happened since 2001. In its presentation, the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed to a number of positive developments since ISAF was first established in December 2001. Economic growth, multiple schools, elected leaders and rehabilitated infrastructure are some of the examples. This is significant progress that matters in the everyday lives of the Afghan people. But it's dangerous just to look at that kind of statistics. Most people probably remember that the previous U.S. administration was often ridiculed in the press when they pointed to the number of kilometres of roads laid and the number of schools built, while Iraq sank deeper into chaos and civil war between 2003 and 2006. The Foreign Minister’s statement did not reflect that kind of wishful thinking. On the contrary, it was marked by soberness and realism. That is not strange, because it is not surprising that a very worrying development in Afghanistan has been seen in particular in the last few years. This may particularly apply to the province of Norway which is the most heavily represented in Faryab. Norwegian forces have been fighting almost daily for the past six months, and we have lost six of our own since the beginning of 2010. Loss rates in the international forces in Afghanistan increased by almost 40 pst. between 2009 and 2010, to 711. The civil losses also increased significantly. The vast majority – nearly 80 pst. – became the victim of the Taliban and the rebels. It's always as dark as it starts to shine, and there are signs that the Taliban may be weakening because of the pressure exerted by the international forces. In addition, the Afghan army and the Afghan police are improved, and they act more on their own than before. However, major challenges remain, perhaps especially in the police. Police are currently poorly equipped, it is a major and flourishing corruption, and they are – as elsewhere in the political community in Afghanistan – poorly ethnically represented, i.e. So the pashtunes are underrepresented there too. The next few months will show whether the positive developments we have seen in the Afghan security forces have had a strong enough momentum to maintain them even in the years to come. Right are cautious optimists, considering that we can leave responsibility for security to the Afghans by 2014, and we support the government's overall line on this issue. We are pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs so clearly stresses that a Norwegian withdrawal will take place in consultation with our allies as part of a long-term and overall plan. We have to see the whole thing, not just look at the situation in each province in isolation when we transfer responsibility. We are also pleased that the Foreign Minister says so clearly that the aim of our presence is to prevent Afghanistan from once again being the site of terrorism. Building civil society, schools, health services and roads are prerequisites for transferring responsibility; it is not a goal for the presence in itself. For our allies in NATO, for our allies in Afghanistan and for our own security, it is important that we do not surrender on the rise side of the conflict in Afghanistan. I am pleased that the government is prepared to stand out. What I still missed in the Foreign Minister's presentation is an analysis of the situation in the future and how Norway will deal with a changing security policy picture. As Gahr Støre had in mind, it seems clear that the Americans will gradually build up their presence in Afghanistan from the summer of. They have made it clear that the gradual withdrawal will depend on the ground situation in Afghanistan, but all political signals suggest that the number of US troops will reach a peak in 2011 and then be reduced. Also some other countries, including Canada with one of the largest and most active quotas, have announced that they will withdraw their soldiers in the near future. Nevertheless, the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not mention what the government would do if such withdrawal, in particular by US forces, had consequences for the Norwegian contribution. For example, at present there are a significant number of American soldiers in the Faryab province. What would it mean for the Norwegian contribution if just these were to be withdrawn? Would we have the capacity to temporarily increase our efforts if it were necessary to fill a temporary security vacuum? Is there any government willing to look at and possibly be prepared for? The government has announced a conversion of the Norwegian contribution, and from 2012 we will be more in the camp and around the camp and less out in combat missions. It is now the Latviians who take over. mentoring and partnering are good, and these are absolutely necessary prerequisites for us to be able to leave security responsibilities to the Afghans. But at the same time, we need flexibility in our contribution to dealing with a changed situation on the ground. What if the Afghan army is unable to maintain the same quality level without Norwegian mentors? What if the Taliban forces were to grow in our territories? What if international combat forces in the country were to prove necessary even after 2014? The questions are many, and I would like the Minister for Foreign Affairs to answer some of them when he makes his statement. The Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out at the end of his statement that we should continue a clear distinction between humanitarian – or civil – and military aid and that the idea of winning so-called hearts and minds is short-sighted. First I have to say that if the foreign minister believes that coordination is primarily about winning hearts and minds, then he has misunderstood. Very familiar is no one in the Norwegian political debate who uses the term ‘to win hearts and minds’. Coordination of efforts is about creating a space for development, protecting civilians from insurgents sufficiently to provide an opportunity for economic progress at micro-level. It's not about hitting the rebels, or making people like you. It is about creating a momentum in development that makes rebels as irrelevant as possible. It is about providing help to the most vulnerable Afghans in the best possible way, often in places where civil aid organisations are unable to carry out development work because of the security situation. We see it in Faryab. The villages that may have had the least pleasure of development aid are the villages with a Pashtun population. This is because it is among the pashtunes of the Taliban that are the strongest, and where the security situation is the worst. But at the same time, the Taliban is also recruiting, and the need for development is therefore great. Coordination is not about liaison. It's about being able to deliver civilian resources effectively to the Afghans. A report by the Defence Research Institute, published in December 2010, described the experience of civil-military coordination in the UN operation in Congo. There's a lot to say about this, but the keyword is interaction. The key word is that good civil-military coordination is needed to deliver good results. It's in areas where it might be impossible for civilians to get in because of the security situation, but the help is still needed, that you have to look at opportunities to coordinate. I also call for a coordination unit à la british stabilisation unit. The task of this unit is to coordinate military, political and humanitarian efforts and to be staffed by staff of the British Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Development. Stability requires collective civil and military support, either to prevent or reduce violence, to protect people and important institutions and to promote political processes and to lay the foundations for long-term development. Regardless of the relationship between military and civil, it is clear that Norwegian civil efforts also need to be coordinated. We're going to spend almost 750 million dollars. kr annually. We've done that for a period of time, and we're going to do that for a few more years. The question is how is the money spent and whether we get results. Are we using them on right things and right projects? In particular, the efforts of women in Afghanistan may have come under criticism. If the effort is fragmented, it will not help if it is large. We want a pragmatic and non-ideological approach to these issues, and we also want Norway to take a leading role in this regard. Norwegian forces in Afghanistan carry out a very demanding and risky job every day. Every time I meet Norwegian soldiers, whether it's been in Afghanistan or here at home before or after a mission, I'm turned off by the professionalism, skill and maturity they show. They risk the life of a mission that politicians have asked them to do. It deserves our deepest respect and our gratitude. Because they also deserve us to end up with them when it blows around them. The same applies to Norwegian auxiliary workers, who are often at considerable personal risk in order to reach a hard-tested Afghan people. But no matter how capable our men and women with and without uniform are in Afghanistan, no matter how much money we spend on civil and military contributions, we'll never be able to talk about a sort of win in Afghanistan. Nobody thinks it's a military solution in Afghanistan. What we have to do is try to leave us a manageable situation that makes security good enough in Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e142	I would like to thank you for a statement that points out in a good way both what has been achieved through almost ten years of civil and military action, and at the same time underlines the depth and seriousness of the challenges that remain ahead of us, and not least in front of the Afghans themselves. It is not difficult to find debasing aspects of the situation in Afghanistan — the last time 400–500 prisoners were able to dig a tunnel and escape from the prison in Kandahar. And far more serious: the riots that ended with the attack at the United Nations office in Mazar-e-Sharif and the loss of enough of a Norwegian life, Colonel Siri Skare, who was in the United Nations service. This, together with a security situation that sometimes goes from bad to worse, is a constant reminder of the seriousness of the challenges we are still facing. However, this must not cover what has been achieved. As pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Afghanistan is no longer a haven for international terrorism. The country has a elected parliament and a elected president, if not through elections that hold good enough democratic standards. Women now have voting rights. Six million more children get school. Infrastructure is being built which will be a necessary basis for economic progress. A study conducted by the Defence Research Institute in Faryab shows that 56 pst. believes that the safety situation has improved and is satisfied or very satisfied. Equally many believe that the development of the area is moving in the right direction. Afghan forces are able to address security challenges in some places in the country. So it's both progress and setback, but it's still a long way to go. But was there anything else to wait for than that change would take time, probably generations? Was it the second to expect in one of the world's poorest countries, ruled by war for 30 years, in a tribal society without the shackles of democratic structures and hardly enough national structures? The expectations of how much and how fast it was possible to change a medieval patriarchal society were obviously too high. Optimism was too great, and it was not taken into account how demanding the starting point was. Afghanistan is not the only example of a significant naivety in the belief in how easy it is to export democracy. When the Americans entered Iraq, it was with the expectation that the Iraqi people would rejoice to get rid of their dictator and quickly turn towards democratic development. It went, as we know, far from that. This is the experience we have in Western democracies to take on board. If we are to contribute to liberating processes and to the construction of democracy, the cultural and historical understanding of the societies in which we are to assist must be significantly improved. It's not least a reminder of what is now unfolding from popular liberation movements in a number of Arab countries, and we would like to help. With regard to Afghanistan, too, as the Foreign Minister points out, there is still a need for a real orientation on what ambitions and visions we are going to draw to the Afghan community, which we are about to withdraw from the military. I believe that the most important challenge in Afghanistan is the great weaknesses in what I would call the state-building structures, structures that are absolutely necessary if Afghanistan is to develop into a nation where the government of the country has legitimacy, influence and authority, including in the provinces, structures that are necessary if the people's belief in a better future is to be linked to the parliament and the president they choose, and the government that emerges from these elections. There's a lot of obstacles before we get there. Extensive corruption, ethnic contradictions, tribal loyalty and criminal networks must be combated. It is necessary to overcome the deep divisions, create the ground for reconciliation and the basis for including the various fractions and groupings in a multi-headed uprising movement. The Peace Council, which jumped out of the Peace Shirga last summer, is criticized because warlords also embrace a lot of conscience. But can reconciliation be created? Can the divisions be overcome, without even these being part of the processes? I don't think so. It is in this demanding political task that opportunities lie. The military task is to undermine the power and influence of weapons, road bombs and suicide bombs on development. The political job is only the Afghans themselves can do. Therefore, it is so important that the authorities in Kabul take a stronger responsibility for the management and development of their own country. We can't solve that part of the problem for the Afghans. We can only help. Reconciliation and democratic anchoring can only be created by those who are to live with and exercise the results of these processes. Therefore, an important task in the future, as pointed out by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement, will be to fill the principles of transferring more of the responsibility, including: for the security situation, to the Afghans themselves with concrete content and given a time horizon requiring action from the first day. This also means that civil assistance needs to be done more according to Afghan priorities. If we expect them to take responsibility for development, they must also have the opportunity to manage the priorities. Here we've gone ahead by that 80 pst. of our assistance has taken place according to Afghan priorities. It does not facilitate the dilemma also pointed out by the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, to coordinate civil and military efforts and civil efforts between the many contributors. But it's necessary to find a solution to that. It is gratifying that this idea was taken into account during the NATO summit in Lisbon last autumn and has set a time horizon for the Afghans to take over security responsibilities themselves until 2014. There has been broad political agreement on our contribution in Afghanistan over these years. I believe that today's debate will confirm this consensus, even if the changes our military contribution is now taking place, in line with the strategy of transferring more responsibility to the Afghan authorities. The Faryab province, where we have the main emphasis on our tasks, is not one of the areas where responsibility is transferred in this round. We must therefore be prepared to continue our PRT contribution there next year, but focussed more strongly on mentoring and training, while the demanding Ghowrmach district west of Faryab adds more ISAF forces and the construction of the completed ring road is intensified. This will provide a better basis for the transfer of responsibility in the next round. The Norwegian military effort in Afghanistan has reaped many praises, and rightly so. There is every reason to thank the many thousands of women and men who have contributed to a demanding mission. Many have been injured, and ten have given their lives to contribute to a world safer for terror and a future with more hope for a better everyday life for the Afghans. But an equally important contribution has been civil assistance. Of the 300 billion. kr spent on development over these ten years is 5 billion. Norwegian kr. The Minister for Foreign Affairs announced a thorough review of our development assistance in Afghanistan. It will provide us with a valuable insight into how our assistance has worked as a basis for how it should be set up in the future. We look for everything to judge the end of the need for a comprehensive military presence in Afghanistan. That task is to be completed responsibly, in cooperation with the other countries. Afghanistan will continue to be one of the poorest countries in the world. It will continue to be a country that will need support to fulfil its responsibilities for security and legal certainty. Comprehensive development assistance will be needed to build a separate economy as a basis for social progress. We should not turn our backs on the Afghan people when it comes to continuing the development of a society in which democratic principles and human rights become more important values than the patriarchal tribal society has offered its young generations. In the debate on developments in Afghanistan, politicians are often criticised for humiliating the problems and setbacks and exaggerating the positive features. At the outset, I said that it is not difficult to find discouraging aspects of the situation in Afghanistan. It's a lot of nourishment for the spectre of the future. But is it not better to listen to what the Danish poet Piet Hein says in one of his caves: ‘However, the Pessimists are the purest fools — They believe in the opposite of what they hope. No, the optimists on which life depends, are those who dare to hope for something in which they believe."
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e207	Before the President gives the floor to the next speaker, who is the representative of Morgen Höglund, the President will state that he has been made aware that the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee had originally recommended a debate which includes six lines after the speeches by Minister of Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre and Councillor Grete Faremo. We've decided that there should be three lines. But the president is asking the Storting if there's anyone who has anything against us instead of practicing six lines after the two posts. No one has spoken out against it, and then a new debate has been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e210	First, I will be allowed to commend the Minister of Foreign Affairs for so clearly and clearly recognising on behalf of official Norway the efforts of the women and men who carry out demanding missions for us in Afghanistan, and where we have unfortunately experienced tragic loss of life. The efforts of these military and civilians are essential to the achievement of our mission. It is, as the Foreign Minister correctly said, widespread support on the Storting for our involvement in Afghanistan. But this consensus must not prevent us from taking the demanding debates. Although the statement shows that much is going better and that the picture is not only negative, it's still not going to get past that after ten years of Norwegian and international engagement, we're far from succeeding, too far. What doesn't work? What do we do wrong? What makes other people wrong? Can the direction be corrected? General McCrystal came up with a new military strategy for approx. one and a half years ago. Strategies led, inter alia, to: military escalation and more focus on protecting the civilian population. Unfortunately, Obama could not deliver the required number of soldiers compared to McChrystal's demands. Other countries also failed. Thus the strategy was implemented with too few soldiers on the ground. At the same time, we know that the training of the Afghan army does not go without a squeak. Then we're facing a situation where Obama has said that from the summer that we're now facing, the United States is going to start pulling its forces home, and it's from a force that's already too little to deal with the security challenge. We often hear from the United States that we want Norway and other countries to be quieter with more military capacity. There may be good reasons to consider it — and we will do so continuously — but now the situation is so that Norway should give clear notice to the United States of its intention to postpone the planned withdrawal and not create more unrest. It's a reality that no one will be able to replace the United States in Afghanistan, nor whether the United States should just choose to pick up a few thousand soldiers. Fewer US and other international forces along with renewed attempts to bring the Taliban into a negotiating table may be the recipe for a crisis. International withdrawal gives many Afghans the impression that they are left to themselves again, while the President, Pashtun Karzai, still expresses a desire for an agreement with the Taliban, which is mainly Pashtun. Unbecir, Tajik and Hazara will again be able to arm themselves and see themselves forced to defend themselves, and we are back to conflict lines from before 11 September 2001. The different ethnic groups of Afghanistan also have their support players internationally, who are ready to provide their peers. A few of Central Asia's wobbling countries will quickly fall into a complete chaos. We will be able to experience a stream of refugees of violent proportions, and the complete tragedy can be a fact. I remember from my first visit to Afghanistan that we asked a member of parliament who was once one of the leaders of the North Alliance, if he now, at the establishment of a new Afghan army, would hand over the weapons to this army. No, it was too insecure. What if Afghanistan fell apart again? How could his people defend themselves? This is not unique, this is the reality. Afghanistan is being held together thanks to the United States and other countries. No internal power factor in the country is currently able to have that task. While we all see that there is only one political solution that must be found for a lasting peace, it is not that an agreement with the Taliban solves the problem. The Afghan carpet is more complicated. A solution with the Taliban, which may seem convenient – and even logical – may be the beginning of a worse situation than we have experienced so far. We agree with the government on our commitment to 2012. The government justifies the exposure, inter alia: that the security responsibilities of the Faryab province must remain with international forces. Our military involvement in Afghanistan has been mainly Faryab-focused in recent years. There are good reasons for this. Nevertheless, we will stress the importance of raising our eyes and recognising that our safety exposure in Afghanistan is not geographically limited. If and when Faryab is ready to be transferred to Afghan control, it is not necessarily the end of Norwegian military presence in Afghanistan. While the United States, Norway and other countries with no geographical proximity to Afghanistan are working towards the goal of enabling Afghanistan to stand on its own feet and meet its own challenges, neighbouring countries do not feel as constructive. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said that Iran supplies weapons to insurgents. It is very much about keeping the United States busy in Afghanistan – and thus less focused on the Iranian threat. Regions in Pakistan can shine like a terrorist threat as much as Afghanistan. Countries such as Pakistan, India, Iran and China are actively participating in meetings on Afghanistan, but have little or nothing to contribute. What they do is done bilaterally and with little transparency. There is little willingness to coordinate. Everything is about its own interests, and in that game, Afghanistan often becomes the loser. But the UN and other donors are also out of play when many major players do not show the cards. Interests that may directly conflict with what we are trying to achieve are put into the Afghanistan game. We believe in strengthening Afghan authorities. We think it's right to channel assistance through the authorities. It doesn't just sound reasonable, it's in many ways what the schoolbook tells us to do. But what is the reality? What opportunities are there for the money to come out? Is there any realistic possibility of carrying out development work that results in this way in Afghanistan? Do we and other donors force a situation that doesn't work? Contribute to assistance, e.g.: to mitigate ethnic contradictions, or does it contribute to the opposite? 5.3 B.C.E. Norway has been using aid to Afghanistan for the last 10 years. What is the gain on this money? How much is missing on the way? It's important to be able to give some credible answers. Many donors have set up large sums for Afghanistan. But it can also be a problem that too much money is short-term without enough control and in a corrupt society promotes negative development. The former head of the World Bank’s office in Kabul estimated in 2006 that 35 p.m.– 40 p.m. the assistance was used incorrectly. It's bad enough if this is money that just disappears in the pockets of people who want a better life or an account abroad, but in Afghanistan there's reason to ask questions about whether part of this money ends up in the pockets of people with completely different and more destructive intentions. Even a limited share of international aid will be very much money. In several countries, among others: In Denmark, there has been a debate over the last year on the provision of aid at the Taliban’s ports. It is about paying protection money in order to implement and operate different projects. With increasing insurrection activity in that part of Afghanistan where Norway is most active, what guarantee do we have that Norwegian money does not go into the Taliban pocket? Whether it's Norwegian or other money coming in the wrong hands, there's obviously a high degree of risk associated with money use in Afghanistan. If there is any team in the reports we get that the Taliban behaves like a mob in many places and takes a percentage of the aid to refinance their own terrorist activity, among other things. Our military, we are inside a very vicious circle, where we, unintentionally, fund our enemy. The answers to all the challenges in Afghanistan are not simple, and if we know the answers, we may not be able to do it anyway. But the alternative to success nevertheless seems to be far worse. That's why we continue with a solid and broad commitment, but at that commitment we have to be able to draw lessons from the experiences and knowledge we have. And if we've perhaps been naive in the past in terms of the complexity that meets us in Afghanistan, we think it must be a time gone. Finally, a brief summary from our side, which should not in any way try to be complete, but some main feature: we need to be more than clear in meeting Afghan partners in terms of what we expect, whether in terms of military action, human rights or anti-corruption. We and other allies must in no way pursue a policy that indicates that we are on our way out of Afghanistan or away from the region. We must ensure that neighbouring countries in the north do not collapse. We must continue to challenge all countries in the region to move in the same direction and demand that the Afghan Government refrain from receiving, for example. secret cash amounts from Iran. We don't have to accept spending money in the country that we don't know the effect of, and we have to let the military do what they're best at, that's to solve their mission without imposing restrictions that don't work in an Afghan reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e244	‘Has the military structure in Afghanistan brought us closer to finding a solution to the conflict in that country? I think the answer is a very clear no. The constant militarisation of the United States — and thus the Western strategy — has brought us further away from a solution and not further." This is how Kai Eide puts on page 269 in his book from last year's own vision, but he adds a denial: ‘I am not opposed to an international military presence.’ In the last year, there are two interesting Norwegian books about Afghanistan that are very different. Kai Eide's book is a book that sees Afghanistan from the inside of the international presence, a book that sees society from above. Anders Smeem Hammer's book is a book that sees Afghanistan from the outside of the international presence, and that sees society from below. In total, I think they give a useful image -- hardly a useful image of Afghanistan, but perhaps a useful image of Afghanistan with a northern man's eye. And then they teach us about the road. A report by the Coordination Body for Voluntary Organisations in Afghanistan, written by Matt Waldman of the Oxfam Helping Organisation, reviews the situation of country assistance and development up to 2008. Afghanistan receives far less assistance than the other conflict area in the world has received in the last decade. In the first two years, the country received only one tenth of Bosnia's income in the 1990s, and compared with the first five years, Iraq received five times as much per capita in aid as Afghanistan received. There is extensive waste and misuse of funds, according to this report. 40 pst. of the assistance goes back to the donor country. Large sums go to expensive foreign consultants, and there's terrible coordination — in short, summed up. Norway spends large amounts of development aid to Afghanistan annually, almost as much as to the military operation. We've got extra help and better equipment on him. The big picture, however, is that more than ten times as much is spent on the war in Afghanistan as it is on bringing peace – on civil development. It is not possible to create peace in Afghanistan without a marked improvement in the standard of living of its inhabitants. It is a major and serious mistake that over a decade, the international community has held a militarized view of what is the solution in Afghanistan. Without a more and better coordinated – and a stronger – Afghan anchoring in the aid, we do not come home from Kabul responsibly. For many years SV has argued for negotiations and a political process that includes all parties, and for Norway to have to talk to everyone, often to general laughter. I myself think of the questioning that Pál T. Jørgensen had of Kristin Halvorsen in the 2009 election campaign, and I have experienced Siv Jensen in debates outside this hall blazing over it and calling it a tea company with the Taliban. Erna Solberg expressed itself as follows to Nettavisen in 2008: ‘Talking with the Taliban and maintaining democracy in Afghanistan, no, I don’t believe that much.’ Now there is a broad consensus that a political process that includes all parties must exist. The premise for a peaceful and democratic Afghanistan is to include everyone in politics and society. As in other peace processes, a dialogue must have with all groups that play a role in society. Is it that simple? No, it's very, very complicated. No recipe has good odds to be closed in Afghanistan now. A long military engagement in the country can only be defended if we strongly believe one will close with it. In such a situation, we owe each other honest reflection and willingness to assess what we are doing. I'm not inviting you for simple answers, but for reflection. Not least we owe it to soldiers, auxiliaries, UN workers, their relatives and others in Norway to do it. I – and SV – believe Norway should liquidate its military participation as quickly as possible. We should give priority to the efforts of Norway where we can make the greatest difference internationally – through a heavy civil effort, by continuing to turn the international strategy towards better coordination and a pooling of civil efforts and by being a heavy player against a better political process. It is not easy to see a positive path further for Afghanistan. In a sense, one might say that the policy change that may now be taking place internationally comes both too late and too early – because the change against civil development and a political inclusive negotiating strategy would have come many years ago to work, too early because it is difficult to see that Afghanistan will be able to ensure security, democracy and economic development in its own country in a few years. I would like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for a good outcome and at the same time state that it is important to keep the debate on the Afghanistan issue in the Norwegian community open.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e279	I am elected from and represent a state that has sent many men and women down to Afghanistan. I have seen and heard the burden of several of our soldiers and not least their relatives at home have gone through – all credit to them. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his interesting and realistic presentation, a statement that made some of the complexity of the situation in Afghanistan visible. When we send Norwegian men and women out on sharp foreign missions where they can ultimately risk losing their lives, it is important that we are open about why we are in Afghanistan, and realistic considering what we can achieve by being there, not least to the individual soldier and their relatives. The reason we went in was the dramatic events of 11 September 2001 and the decisions that were then taken. The main reason for our presence in Afghanistan has always been to prevent the country from being a haven and a haven for international terrorists. Today, international terrorist networks such as Al Qaida are severely weakened in Afghanistan. That's good. But the long-term solution for the country is not achieved by the use of military power. It is political and must be done on Afghan premise. While some arrows point in the right direction, the safety situation in Afghanistan remains very demanding. But the aim of entrusting security responsibilities to the Afghans themselves is strong and absolutely correct. At the NATO summit last year, it was agreed that the transfer of security responsibilities from international forces to Afghan forces would start this year and that the process would have been completed throughout Afghanistan during 2014. We are in a new phase for NATO. We are in a new phase of Norway's involvement. The military engagement in Afghanistan has had a broad international anchoring, a solid UN mandate and support from the elected authorities of Afghanistan. This is a solid starting point for a military operation in a third country, but one must always be aware that military presence itself contributes to creating reactions, and that the presence can be used as a means of strengthening forces we do not want to strengthen. Our forces are now in Afghanistan to contribute to stability and to build their own Afghan capacity. This year we've been there for ten years. Ten new years, or many new years, are no guarantee of further stability. In the worst case, it can have the opposite effect. That is why we must be impatient on behalf of the Afghans, given that their own army and their own police forces can take on responsibility for the security of the Afghans as soon as possible, as the NATO declaration of November stated. The desire for change in Afghanistan to a safer, more stable and well-functioning society has had a broad anchoring in the Storting. The Central Party considers that it is essential that civil assistance continues on the day on which the military contribution is terminated. In order to build a long-term solution for Afghanistan, it is important that we channel much of our assistance through Afghan authorities. The Afghans themselves know best what they need to get a better society, and they know best what it takes to develop their own society. In addition, aid projects directed by Afghan authorities provide better legitimacy for the government. Afghanistan is a very decentralised society, with no tradition of strong central government. A long-term solution in Afghanistan requires the spread of power, not just through the informal power structures, but through a national framework, so that we can channel resources and a legitimate power apparatus where your people live. The third sector has always been important and often shown the way in Norwegian development. During the Committee's visit to Afghanistan last year, we met representatives of non-governmental organisations. They impressed with their knowledge of the challenges facing Afghanistan and their ground-based, concrete assistance work. It is important that we also continue to support these actors. Finally, Afghanistan will need humanitarian aid and assistance for many years to come. Let's hope that, together with the other countries of the coalition, we are as willing to commit ourselves to humanitarian action in the years to come as we have been to commit ourselves to military action in the years that have passed. An overall increase has been behind the Norwegian military contribution to Afghanistan. Now we must stand together on humanitarian efforts and ensure that Afghanistan is given our attention long after the last Norwegian soldier has left the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e305	It's almost ten years since the Taliban's fall in Afghanistan. The Secretary of State’s presentation was broad, but had three focus points. His description of the background of the engagement was simplest, the description of the status today was more contradictory, and the description of the prospects can well be said to be most uncertain. The international armed intervention in Afghanistan was originally a response to Al Qaida’s terrorist attack against the World Trade Center in New York. The main objective was to prevent terrorist movements from re-using Afghanistan as a haven for planning and implementing international terrorist actions. Later, the military intervention was followed up with a comprehensive civil development exposure. This is due to the fact that the main objective was not achieved by military action alone — a wide range of societal developments and policy solutions are also needed. The Christian People's Party supports this view. What, in my opinion, was under-communicated in the statement was that this broad commitment involved many actors who had different purposes. Some had a more humanitarian focus, others had an economic development focus and/or different political motives. Far from all actors, the main focus of military security policy has been the same. Therefore, not all will agree with the Foreign Minister's statement: ‘It is not an independent objective to operate state-building’. We should recognize that the purposes have been somewhat different. Then we can also better understand why the Afghanistan debate has been so contrasting for almost ten years. So to today's status -- yes, it's the way the Minister for Foreign Affairs summed up: ‘It has been advanced and advanced.’ And the setbacks often get the most attention. The rather negative impression this gives must be corrected. I agree. The examples of social and economic progress show this. But one main problem is not going to get away. Despite the enormous military effort, security for the civilian population and humanitarian actors has deteriorated in recent years. This applies, inter alia, to: in the Faryab province, where Norway has its heaviest military involvement. Otherwise, let me underline three key points in which I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs: It is important to see the Afghanistan conflict in a regional perspective, and in particular in relation to the areas around the Pakistan border. It is important to make a clear distinction between humanitarian action, development effort and military action. We need to protect the humanitarian space. It is good that such a view that Norway has had, now attracts more people. And there must be great emphasis in warfare on avoiding civil losses. Here we see differences in setting – over 80 pst. According to the UN, the activities of the rebels are due to civilian deaths. Only 16 pst. due to Afghan security forces and the efforts of ISAF. Also, there are too many civilian victims. But the difference is striking, and it's a cross of thought that this hasn't made the civilian population even more negative to the rebels. The future is uncertain. Principles of Afghan ownership and transfer of responsibilities to Afghan authorities have been established. This has broad support. But we must realize that the local political alliances that are then elected could lead to more of what we do not like – in areas like human rights, democracy and the equivalency of women. Last year, the NATO Summit agreed that foreign fighting forces should be fully extended in 2014. In the light of what has been said by various debaters here today, I assume that the Minister of Foreign Affairs can confirm that this is something the government fully supports. Nevertheless, I also believe that ‘it is too early to say something certain about what NATO’s efforts in Afghanistan will look like in two, four or six years’ time’. But we know that extraction will require political negotiation solutions and internal political alliances that are strong enough to create more stability internally in the country. One of the heaviest decisions politicians make is to send personnel out on sharp missions, where they have to put life and health at risk – at the service of the country. Let me therefore strongly agree with the deep respect expressed by the Foreign Minister in his intervention for the efforts of the soldiers, and stress our commitment to strengthening the offer of the war veterans who suffer physical or mental damage. The victims of some individuals and families must endure, we as society must seek to bear solidarity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e343	I want to start with what I also think the Minister of Foreign Affairs did in a great way, namely to thank our soldiers and those who have made the effort, and decisions in this room, possible – including those who have been involved and contributed to the civil effort, and those who have sacrificed the greatest we can ask anyone to do, namely sacrifice their own lives for the missions we have sent them out to in this room. I would also like to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for an interesting introduction, and I agree with all the main features he makes – almost. Last year the Minister for Foreign Affairs said: ‘Towards a political solution, the military presence will be required.’ It will be a long time to come – and there is an opinion that is worth repeating. We went into this assignment as a coalition, and the left believes that we should also go out of this assignment as a coalition. There should not be a conclusion on a separate Norwegian agenda, but it should be part of the international community we are actually part of. Then it's not like we're just going to participate for national reasons. I agree with all the reasons put forward by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and, as several other speakers have also said, with regard to our participation. It's about fighting an arena for international terrorism. War is never the solution. The long-term solutions lie in political and dialogue, but neither can it be said that you can only be for or against war, and that war is simple solutions. War is the most difficult decision we make in this room, and we do it on the other hand also in a balance against human life. The left will stress that it is important – with the objectives and the dates set by the Minister for Foreign Affairs – that we have a close dialogue with our allies, especially with the United States, and that it is the situation in Afghanistan that will determine when to withdraw, not the situation in Norway. The left believes that we should participate in the same line with others and have, as I can repeat, been against the operational constraints that have been on the Norwegian forces. We're saying that we're going to participate in the same line with others. But the military offensive we have deployed also requires a stronger civil effort. The left considers it important to have a role clarification between what is civil and what is military, but it is also very important to have a close dialogue between civil and military. The Vice-President of the Left, Ola Elvestuen, has previously addressed the issue of a more comprehensive civil-military effort in a separate letter to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, among others. based on the report of Maj-Gen Jon B. Liland. The report concludes that civil and military management needs to be planned and that efforts need to be evaluated together, while ensuring separation of practical exercise. I still think that's a very important point at the end. I agree with Bård Vegar Solhjell, who says that 750 million. kr is not a huge participation in aid. Nevertheless, we believe that it needs to be evaluated, and there must be demands that we actually reach the goals we have set to achieve. I want to draw up two perspectives at the end. One is the important regional policy perspective here. If we are to find a solution in Afghanistan, it requires us not to undermine Pakistani sovereignty, nor to contribute to destabilising Pakistan. In fact, Pakistan is required to join in to get the regional solution. If we can't bring one of these parties, we can't achieve a stability that will last over time. So to one point where I disagree with the Council of State, our goal is not to build a state. For the Left, it is important to have a value-based foreign policy, where democracy and human rights and all that should be the basis of our foreign policy. Then you have to dry up to make demands, and then you have to dry up saying that you stand for something, and then you have to have democracy and human rights as the goal of all foreign policy activity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e370	First, I would like to say that the contributions from the various parties show that there is a broad platform that supports the Norwegian involvement in Afghanistan, the mission we have undertaken, what we are doing militarily, what we are doing civilly, and I also perceive all the main analyses of the political contribution. It is important for Norway to have this support internationally, and it is also important for our women and men in uniform and civil that they can feel that support at home from Norway. It is important to underline in this debate. So I'll answer some of the questions that have come. The chairman of the Committee felt that my presentation was a little forward-looking. That's a vision I get to respect. My attempt to be forward-looking was to emphasise the criteria for transition, transfer of responsibility to Afghans, both in the security field with the army and the police, and in how to politically enable Afghans – that they themselves can be able to rule Afghanistan. I think it's a difficult and sometimes dangerous exessus to stand here and evaluate different scenarios, whether the Americans pull up or pull down. Two years ago, the American attitude was that they had little interest in the Faryab province, where we've been for many years. So a few months went by, and now the Americans are present with military personnel in the Faryab province. Our goal must be to have a close dialogue with the United States as an ally, with our ISAF partners, and not least with the regional command in the north, so that we can see developments there in the context. Then I would also warn against making it so that Faryab is the Norwegian province. It is an ISAF responsibility in Faryab that Norway is involved in solving. That is why we must also make our partners responsible and commit to finding a good solution for the province, as for other provinces. When it comes to coordinating civil and military efforts, I really think that the disagreement is less than it is often presented as. Much of what the representative Eriksen Soreide said, I fully agree. We need coordination, we need to create space, we need to protect civilians, and we need momentum in development. And there are cases where civilians cannot reach with help, whether they are non-governmental organisations or the civil authorities in an area where the military will be able to provide vital assistance, humanitarian aid, etc. But thinking about the development of the military getting a role that lasts on time, I think we have a lot of experience for is a bad solution. In the Faryab province — from which we have a lot of experience — the aim is to work with regional authorities so that they take full responsibility in Faryab, and not exclude some parts of the province because there are some population groups living there. There, I think it's important to keep a clear principle that we don't have a mix of roles. So now, in my opinion, we have good coordination in this area. We have a civil coordinator from 2009, which is equal to the military PRT chief. Our assistance is also coordinated from the Embassy in Kabul, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This assistance will be evaluated, as I said in my presentation. I cannot agree that this aid is fragmented. On the contrary, we have tried to concentrate, to follow Afghan priorities and to invest in some areas where we have experience: schools, boards, village development and the humanitarian field. Norwegian aid has been characterised by its flexibility, its ability to respond to challenges. That's 750 million. a significant amount. That government increased that amount quite significantly. At the same time, it's important to put it in a context. As I was in the room, total assistance to Afghanistan is up to 300 billion. During these years, over 200 of them are from the United States and around 5 from Norway. At least it gives a picture that what we are doing must have an effect, of course, and then it must send political signals about direction – which way we are going. Then I can say to the representative, Skei Grande, yes, we stand for things. And as I said in my statement, we hold the Afghan authorities responsible for meeting their international human rights obligations: democracy, respect for women, etc. The point of my presentation was that the state-building project is not the independent goal of our presence. But contributing to the construction of a state is a means of achieving the goal, namely that Afghanistan can stand on its own feet, not have a marshal area for terror, and not represent a threat to neighbours and itself. Finally, I would like to say that I interpreted the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party a little so that there is still a very strong focus on the military component. It's very important, and it's important that we get this to vote, that we work well with our allies, that we do our military mission, which is part of it to enable the Afghans to take that responsibility. But still, the big challenge for Afghanistan is to find the political solution. That's what's going to put a finishing line for the international presence militarily, and that's what's going to be the starting point for Afghanistan to live in peace and stability.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e390	Then it opens up to six lines of line change on – which is now adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e393	The aim is to withdraw NATO's fighting forces by 2014 and agreements have been reached with the Afghan President attached to it. It's a goal that we can all join if development goes to what we want. But does the Minister for Foreign Affairs agree that this should not be a coercion, and that, depending on developments up to 2014, one must be willing to look at the agreement concluded with the Afghan Government and assess the situation in the light of the security situation in question in 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e398	I believe that the experience in Afghanistan has shown us the need to constantly assess the situation. At the same time, I think it is very wrong now to send signals in 2011 that weaken the pressure we have put ourselves under, Afghans and each other, that 2014 is an important figure for when the transition is to be completed. Now, in 2011, if we say that it's not so safe, maybe we need to consider other alternatives, then we'll take off the pressure that's absolutely necessary and that we have experience there must be political. It's only been six months since the NATO Summit came to that recognition, together with President Karzai, so I want to say that it's a definite goal. There is an answer to the question that came to me too: Norway ends up on that goal, the transition should be completed before that. But I have also stressed that our responsibility to contribute to Afghanistan's stable future goes beyond 2014. What form the responsibility will then be, how it will be done in terms of both training, military and civil, remains to be seen. But now we should put 100 pst. of the resources in order to carry out the transition and enable political reconciliation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e403	After visiting the Norwegian PRT, after visiting the Turkish PRT, and after visiting the ISAF headquarters in Kabul, I see that there are shades in the way we operate down there. Although many countries are present and there is an overall strategy, there is clearly a nuance in this. It is probably also the case that the participating countries have different cultural and historical links with Afghanistan and its neighbourhoods. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is this: does the Minister for Foreign Affairs realise that Turkey can take more responsibility down there, and whether it will be possible and appropriate for the overall situation in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e408	The representative Ellingsen takes the message in when he says it's nuances. There are quite big differences. There are over 40 countries that contribute, and one of the challenges has been that the differences have been quite large. But you have to respect that. Most countries here are democracies that send women and men in uniform, and the importance of coordinating in particular what we do in the civil field — the military following a command structure — has been important. Turkey plays an important role and will be able to play an important role. For here, there is a bond in addition to the responsibility we take after the UN Security Council, but it is also a bond of an ethnic, political and historical nature, especially in the north of Afghanistan. It is an important role Turkey now plays, as I was in my presentation, a role in bringing together the countries around Afghanistan, which Norway also contributes in its own way. I think that's an important field. At the same time, there are complications when countries from outside have internal interests, while implementing the UN Security Council resolutions and objectives. But Turkey is both an ally and a close partner, and we have a close dialogue with them about Afghanistan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e415	As the Foreign Minister noticed, I put the emphasis on the issue of creating space for development, protecting civilians, and also coordinating our civil efforts. In this context, I had a specific call to which I would like to have the Foreign Minister's response, and it is the question of whether it could be relevant for Norway to establish such a coordination unit to which there is something similar in the United Kingdom, the Stabilisation Unit. The idea with it is that there is an arena of expertise and ‘best practice’ when operating in fragile, vulnerable countries that are in conflict and working closely with countries to contribute to a greater degree of both good governance and actually to the establishment and maintenance of a governance set. I think it would make sense for Norway to also look at similar models, precisely because it brings together both civil, political, military and humanitarian efforts in greater and heavier efforts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e420	I agree with the chairman of the committee that it is important to learn from the experiences of other countries, and we are trying to do so through our bilateral contact with other, related countries. I would argue that we have the coordinating unit in Norway today. We have close contact between civil and military leadership at the PRT in Faryab. We have the coordinating role of the embassy in Kabul in close contact with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the environment. So creating a unit for the sake of the unit I'm skeptical of. We need to see whether we ensure proper coordination, good enough effort. I think we've got it going a long way. What I want, on the other hand, is a better coordinating unit between the 40–50 countries that contribute. I'm not so worried about fragmentation in the military area, because there we have trained command and control systems through NATO. We are far, far worse off in the way that countries provide aid. If it is done in 40 different ways and according to different principles, and the view of Afghan ownership varies throughout the spectrum of alternatives, the total sum will be poor. So I think that's where the focus must be on coordination, and the deficiency is greatest, not internally in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e427	The UN Special Mission to the Congo in May 2009 said that we see the need for civil protection to be more than just defence on the ground. It's also a question of how to use them, of how to connect to civil personnel. In the report I mentioned in my speech, one of the main findings is that the protection of civilians is an area where civil-military cooperation is perhaps one of the easiest things to do, the most possible, and where one can also get a better and stronger effort if one has clear cooperation, clear coordination – i.e. not a liaison, but a clearer coordination, precisely because, as I also mentioned, in many cases it will be impossible to engage in civil action without the assistance of the military. It will also be impossible to protect civilians. Is it possible to look at the rigid divisions Norway has set up once more, precisely with civil protection in mind?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e432	I really agree with everything the representative here says, and with the desire to have coordination and coordination and to see one action in connection with the other. I don't think the goal of protecting civilians changes the analysis we've had, and the distinction is not rigid. I believe, on the contrary, when we work closely, that the principle is to create a space for development, to primarily enable Afghans to operate it – Afghan authorities and Afghan organisations – and that they can do it without fear of terror and estimation, and that there is certainty. Where we're pretty principleal, we believe that usually it should not be military that provides assistance, that carry out tasks that civilians are better fit to do in the normal state. And then there are extreme states, as I described. For this to work, we obviously need close contact in the field, but also close contact here at home. We have that between the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Justice and the underlying agencies. So I feel that coordination is good, that it's not rigid divisions that prevent us from doing the right things.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e439	I have a question for the Foreign Minister, who is more general, and which concerns international operations more generally, but I want to say that it is both relevant to Afghanistan and based on a criticism of our Libya exposure. The differences between the different parties are expressed in many ways, including the degree of transparency and information about the operational activities in which we are involved. It may have an impact on the popular awakening, understanding and support of our international operations the degree of openness we show. It is a cross of thought when countries that are close to us have a greater degree of transparency and a more offensive information policy on our operational activities than Norway has. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs assess this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e446	First of all, I want to say it's important to be transparent about our commitment -- what leads to us being engaged, why we're there, and what happens in the field. Now I can't really go well because we in Norway are less open than our close allies. Here we see that there is a slight fluctuation from episode to episode in how the information comes out. There should be a high level of transparency, but there should also be a level of reason around what is involved in some military operations that can go through 24 hours. We are engaged, as has been said today, in hundreds of such operations, and often for tactical reasons both for the operations and for the safety of the personnel who carry them out must be a discretion around them. Political authorities cannot be in such a situation as to have to comment on and comment on each operation in detail. Having said that, I agree that the principles of so-called ‘Rules of Engagement’ – which operations you participate in, what is the strategy, what is the participation – should be open and accessible. I feel that, in particular, the Minister of Defence, but also I on my side, stress that it comes out in our communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e456	I want to follow up on the second question from Eriksen Soreide, because I am a little unsure whether I fully understood what the Foreign Minister meant. For the Left, it is important that military and humanitarian work is done by different institutions, but it should be planned by the military and humanitarian organisations at the same time. It should be coordinated, people should know each other, and people should see it in a context, sail if it should clearly be done by different institutions, because there are different jobs to be done. So I wonder if the Foreign Minister shares the Left's view that these are two different efforts with two different sponsors and two different goals, but that what is required today is a greater coordination, planning and evaluation of this in the context, without the practical implementation being the same people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e465	The important principle of humanitarian space is that aid goes to those who need it, that it is made for the sake of those who need it, and that they perceive that there is no conflict between parties. If that happens, the civilians who provide assistance – if they are never so civil – can be perceived to be a hand of the military part, which is one side of a conflict. In this way, aid workers can become a target for hostile activities, and those receiving assistance can become vulnerable in an area where alliances change. That's why it's important to protect that space, so that people feel that they're getting help because they need help. That is why it is very best if this comes from Afghanistan, implemented by the Afghan authorities, so that those who feel that something is going in the right direction, attribute it to the Afghan authorities, who are going to be there long after us. It is therefore important that there is coordination, so that help organisations know that it is now safe to enter an area. But if the sequence is that first the soldiers come, the next day the aid workers come, you can make both the assistance and the workers very vulnerable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e470	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e473	I too, like many others, would like to thank the Foreign Minister for what I would call a sober and realistic, and also correct, statement about Afghanistan and the situation there. As the Foreign Minister said yesterday, and also today, this has been dramatic ten years with both progress and decline. We all record that the country and the region are still marked by violence and instability, but also by what we can call good progress. I think it's very important that we here in Stortinget when we discuss this, do not lose the big perspective of sight. We have achieved something very important. We have removed a cruel Taliban regime in a vulnerable region, and Afghanistan is no longer a haven for Al Qaida. Health and infrastructure have improved significantly. Women have been given the right to vote, and thousands of schools have been built, where girls have been admitted. All of this is a good expression of progress. The purpose of our Afghanistan exposure is established – and what is it? Well, it is primarily to prevent terrorist movements from being tempted to plan and carry out massive acts of terrorism in the world. This is underlined in repeated resolutions of the UN Security Council. I too, in the same way as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, stress that it is not an independent aim to build a state in Afghanistan, but when, together with the international community, we have such a great civil commitment to promote economic growth, respect for human rights and sustainable infrastructure, it is because we know that these are important prerequisites to prevent Afghanistan from again becoming a haven for terrorism. All in all, this may be the most important contribution to achieving our political goal, but it's also important to say, when that sentence is said, it's completely unrealistic to think that it doesn't have to be balanced with a proper military commitment that we're involved in. I would also like to highlight another important political perspective. Norway shall take responsibility in addition to itself. It is in Norwegian interest to contribute to a fairer world and to fewer people living in freedom and distress. Respect for international law, universal human rights and the promotion of an international legal order form the basis of our policy, and it is in Norwegian interest that we have a UN-led world order. That's why it's important that we continue to follow up our commitment to Afghanistan even in the time that's coming. One of the main objectives of the United Nations mandate is to assist the Afghans so that they themselves will be able to govern their own country. I'm glad that there's a total staggering behind this commitment, as this debate underlines. At the same time, however, it must be recognised, as others have said before me, but as I would say, that the development towards the establishment of a stable democracy takes time and must be the work of the Afghans and their own responsibility. Finally, as has been said by many, including the Minister for Foreign Affairs on behalf of official Norway, I would also like to stress our support for the soldiers in Afghanistan on our message. They've done a very big job, they're doing a very big job, several of them – ten – have been killed, and of course we have a great responsibility we're in this room, to underline their efforts and honor them in the right way, as we've done, and I'm doing it my way now. I also want to say that it is very important that those who are injured are followed up in the right way, and that we have a policy on the veteran side that is worthy, and that is among the best in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e490	Let me start with the most important thing first, that of giving homage to all those who have been, who are, and who intend to travel to Afghanistan and contribute – whether they are people in uniform or those who are travelling down as civilians – where the aim is to make the best possible effort for the Afghan people and to ensure that terrorism does not get grounded again down there. In addition to this, I think the statement to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is good. At the same time, I allow myself to point out a few things that I am surprised to not get more focus, namely the role that Karzai has, which, in my opinion, is a great political player, who is a high-ranking tactical, and who uses the necessary tools to achieve what he wants at all times. I record that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has it in his statement. It said something like that that we can all have our opinion about Karzai, but that it is a choice that has been made. At the same time, I would have liked the consequences of that particular choice to be more problematic. A person who, to show that he's either crazy or something else, says that if you don't listen to me, we go to the Taliban instead, testify about a person who, at my discretion, has one focus, and that's doing what best suits him at all times. Another thing that I'm surprised to not get more focus is corruption. Corruption is, in my opinion, a form of cancer in Afghan society, which must be combated. When you see how much money disappears out of that country every day, we have a challenge that is greater than large. So until we fight it, we don't get the other things in place. As long as the funds to go to the Afghan people end up in the pockets of some, when we don't have the goals we want to achieve. So back to the most important thing. We can discuss politics here, we, late and early – close to the seizure takes us – but what if we don't have people to do the job for us, if there aren't people in uniform or civil who are willing to go out and take the load? We take the burden politically, but being in Ghowrmach, being in other parts of Afghanistan, is a lot tougher than making a political decision here. That's why it's important that we set up for them, that we make sure that they have the best equipment possible, that we respect their jobs and give them honor, and not least that we take care of them when they come back, that we take care of those who have served, that we take care of their families and show that it has real value for us. It should not just be words, it should also be action. I think it's clearly frustration out there among those who serve, because they want to do much more than what they're allowed to do. I have the impression that you sometimes take one step forward, and then you take two steps back, because that's what's political opportunity. Then of course you can say that's the game. It is the policy that governs. That's the way it should be, but at the same time it leads to frustration in some people who have Boats on the Ground, which I think we're going to take over. The NRK has now started a documentary series to describe what they have captured as reality in Afghanistan. Look at it, follow it and experience the frustration that is actually expressed in these episodes! It's going to be a surprise for many, I think. They're going to show people who are engaged, and have a will and a stand-on ability that we can envy them. At the same time, they are frustrated by the lack of political will to say: OK, do this, fix this, fix it, and we will support you afterwards! It shows something about the lack of leadership, capacity and capabilities of the Afghan army and the Afghan police. Until we do something with them, Afghanistan is going to be the same – I am not going to use the word ‘backward’ – challenge as it is today. We have to fix it. I have taken the liberty of exchanging letters with the general who is the head of the NATO Training Mission in Afghanistan, and asked what challenges he sees in this. He says that one of the major challenges that they're facing in the future is when the West and the countries that are there come out, if they want to deal with enough instructors. As of today, it is approx. 50 pst. of their needs. Then we can talk about ‘transition’, good people. We can talk about transferring responsibility to Afghan authorities. But if they don't have the ability and the ability to do that, this becomes a political illusion, and that's the last thing we need, not least of respect for those who are down there. So the challenges are in line. Let me conclude by saying that I have a great sense and respect for what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. But I might have wanted him to focus even more on the major challenges ahead. He showed that more people go to school — honor be it. He referred to tax receipts and things that are important. But the challenges ahead of us are bigger than that. It was said here in an article that we should not focus on being pessimistic or optimistic. For my part, it's about being a realist.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e511	I think it has been a quite realistic debate. While the setbacks that often receive the greatest attention in the media seem to be the willingness of the world community to take greater responsibility in conflict areas where leaders make the purest attacks on the civilian population in their struggle to maintain power, in their power to retain their privileges. That's why Norway is now also in place to participate in combating this kind of leadership in Libya, and I think this will become more and more commonplace for Norwegian military and civil society as well. It should just be lacking that we do not participate in this kind of conflict-fighting. So there was a good statement from the Minister of Foreign Affairs, especially where he gave a reason why we're in Afghanistan. I think it's very important that the type of underlining is presented, because that type of participation has a very high price. It has such a high price that unless results are achieved in the form of progress and better coordination, we will eventually see that patience is put to the test in all the 48 participating countries – where the population in most of them has their own voting rights, where the population will be the one who can ultimately be risked if you do not achieve the progress that we all want. When we saw the other day that an Afghan officer killed five to six NATO soldiers, and we had the April 1 attack at the United Nations Office in Mazar-e Sharif, where a Norwegian colonel was killed, this illustrates that we have a very high price to pay for just fighting what could create world uncertainty in terms of terrorism and the lack of stability that we have in this part of Asia. So in this consensus debate, I have to give a little visit to SV's chief spokesman, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, who thanked the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a good account, but who is at the same time attacking all the foreign minister's conclusions. This is not at all related. SV has the aim of ending the military effort, and today strong arguments are being argued from the Stockholm pulpit to negotiate with the Taliban. So you're guessing that this is the way to a kind of solution for the civilian population, which I strongly warn against. It may be safe and well at home to have this kind of spectator's role and would like to refer to other parliamentary leaders, from both the Right and the Advance Party, who have warned against this, but I think it is also worth pointing out today that it is the Taliban who took the credit for having carried out the attack on the United Nations Office on 1 April in Mazar-e Sharif. I think it is to fall to the knees of an institution that chooses to attack at a UN office, which chooses to eradicate what is the basis of economic development and stability in Afghanistan, which in many ways has terror as its own business idea, which has as its main purpose the creation of instability, and which aims to destroy the increase that the Foreign Minister had in us, that in 2001 there were one million children who went to school in Afghanistan, while today we see that the figure has passed seven million – and one third of these are girls. What in the world kind of terms is it SV will offer Afghan girls if you start by having as a solution that the Taliban is the key to getting progress and progress in this conflict? It is possible that others would have chosen to formulate themselves a little different from what I have done here, but I don't think you can do this kind of double-ethnic performance – to give honor to an explanation, in which case all of the conclusions of the statement are rejected. Therefore, the requirement will in the future be, also to SV, but to a much greater extent to all others, what kind of exit strategy it is Norway and ISAF will have after 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e529	It is almost ten years since the international community, including Norway, committed to supporting the development of a safe and stable Afghanistan. We've achieved a lot, but it's still a long way to go before we can say we're done with the problem. Over 7,500 Norwegian soldiers have done their best to make Afghanistan safer. We've had painful losses, each of them one too many. During my visit to Afghanistan just before Easter, I attended a memorial ceremony in Mazar-e Sharif for Siri Skare, who lost my life during the attack on the United Nations Office on 1 April this year. There are now ten Norwegian plaques attached to the memory park in the Mazar-e Sharif camp – one for each of those who have paid the highest price for Norway’s involvement. Norway will forever remember their efforts and victims with gratitude and respect. Although the security situation for our soldiers is demanding, it is important to stress that the people of Faryab feel safer. The JRC recently carried out a study, which has already been mentioned in the debate. It shows that the population feels safer. They see their own national security forces playing an increasingly important role, but they also see the presence of the international force as an important prerequisite for this. The overall strategy of NATO in Afghanistan is to enable the Afghan authorities to assume responsibility for security in the country. The transfer of responsibility will start in the summer in seven different areas — three provinces and four districts. In North Afghanistan, the Mazar-e Sharif district will be part of the first group. The Faryab province is not considered ready for transition in the current year. The objective is for the transition process to be completed by the end of 2014. The Government aims to continue the Norwegian military efforts in Afghanistan at about the same level as today in 2012. The current main task of the Norwegian strength contribution in contributing to capacity building in the Afghan Brigade of Faryab is to continue and strengthen. Operational security forces are essential for Afghanistan itself to take over security responsibilities, including in Faryab. We are also planning to deploy a Norwegian military transport aircraft from the second half of 2012. This will contribute to safer transport of personnel and materials, and the Norwegian helicopter contribution to a medical evacuation will also be continued in 2012. Norway has had good cooperation with Latvia in Afghanistan for several years. Latvia is currently in charge of PRT security, securing and escorting tasks in Meymaneh, but is expected to assume responsibility for carrying out operations with Afghan forces, known as partnering operations, for a period of 12 months. During this period, Norway will assume responsibility for security, security and escorts. Norway will still have the management apparatus, the intelligence capacity, the logistical responsibility and responsibility for the support functions of the PRT. The Norwegian military effort has been and continues to make a difference. Our soldiers are making a very solid and important effort in a risky environment. Measured in our size, Norway is a significant contributor in Afghanistan. Our active Afghanistan policy has been followed up by targeted and adapted military action, which was also valued in both NATO and Afghan authorities. The focus on Faryab is high on the ISAF side and there will be an increased focus on this area towards 2012 due to the tense safety situation and the need to complete the ring road. NATO has said that the most important Norway can contribute is to continue our PRT in Faryab. It is therefore important that we maintain our centre of gravity in Faryab while making the Afghan Brigade in the area as soon as possible able to take over the security responsibilities in the province. We have seen in Faryab a rapid construction of the Afghan army. The ability of Afghan security forces to deal with the security situation is also increasing. Just a few years ago, the presence of Afghan security forces was almost non-existent. The size of Afghan security forces in Regional Command North is now about 25 000. About 4,500 of these are in the Faryab province, of which the army is about 1,800. Norwegian efforts in Afghanistan have been crucial for this build-up. During my visit two weeks ago, I saw how an Afghan Brigade led a comprehensive operation supported by Norwegian mentors. This shows how our efforts are beneficial, and that the Afghans are taking greater responsibility for their own security.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e548	There will be a line change, until – as it has now been adopted – six lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e551	In my reply with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, I mentioned this differently in the convergence of strategies with regard to the way the different nations operate in Afghanistan. Not least, we see a difference between the American strategy and the Norwegian strategy. Part of the American strategy has been, among other things, Taking out the Taliban leadership to reduce recruitment to the Taliban. My question to the Minister of Defence is: What view does the Minister of Defence have of such an approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e558	NATO and ISAF have a common strategy, where the emphasis on training and enabling Afghan security forces to take responsibility for their own security is central. We've been working on this for a long time. In Faryab, we have also seen in recent years a greater number of Afghan security forces that have made the implementation of this strategy possible. That is why we have seen it as important to continue and focus our efforts in this area, and we also look forward to strengthening our institutional training in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e564	It is tempting to say that there was an interesting answer to something quite different than what I asked for, but okay enough. Then I'll ask for something else instead. In my main post instead, I referred to the feedback I received from the NATO Training Mission in Afghanistan, where concerns were shown about the number of instructors made available from the countries involved there. Norway has a certain number today, and my question is simple: Is Norway willing to increase the number of instructors in order to reach the level that is actually needed to get the Afghan police and army up to the desired level, both in volume terms and not least qualitatively?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e571	The short answer is yes. That's exactly what I started at the end of the previous line. This is an important element in ensuring the future of good competence in the Afghan army. We have a small number of instructors in the liaison school and engineering school, and we're planning to increase this number. At the same time, we have a great task and a great commitment in Afghanistan that we want to carry out in the best possible way. Making sure that we turn our efforts in the right way is also important, so that we do not leave different tasks half-cut or poorly done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e576	The aim is to change the Norwegian strength contribution from 2012, to more type of watchkeeping and control in the region where Norway has its primary responsibility. At the same time, it is precisely in this region that the level of conflict has been increasing — escalating conflicts occur almost daily. My question is whether this change in the organisation of the Norwegian strength contribution from 2012 could risk making us less able to take part in sharp missions when the situation may require strong missions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e581	It is clear that the far greater number of allied forces, and not least Afghan forces now operating in Faryab, challenges the rebels in a completely different way from before, and that this is part of, of course, affecting the security situation also for our forces. I see the change in order that is now happening to the Latviians, as positive. We have long had challenges on some capacities in the Army, and we have seen through the long cooperation we have had with the Latvians, also that they have wanted to take responsibility for new tasks. So we'll still be able to support operations that now also the Afghans themselves are leading more and more in a good way, and hopefully be involved in building an ever safer Faryab for the population there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e586	Through the Norwegian media, we have seen so-called revelations of Norwegian activity through reports both from Afghanistan and, in particular, now from Libya. In this situation, too, we have seen that the Secretary-General of the Norwegian Press Association, Per Edgar Kokkvold, has criticised the lack of Norwegian transparency, on the grounds that the Faremo Council has promised greater transparency. This has been a cause for considerable concern for the many relatives who have their closest in place both in Afghanistan and in Libya, where they are involved in the conflict. Is it really the case that the Faremo Government Council wants a greater and more detailed transparency on what the Norwegian forces contribute at all times, with the consequences this can have on the domestic land for both Norwegian soldiers and relatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e591	Yes, I want transparency about the defence business, also about our participation in international operations. However, I would like to see a strong focus on the safety of the personnel. Different operational tactical considerations may also make detailed information difficult to provide. It is also the case that when we participate in an international operation with a common communication strategy, it is important to have a continuous dialogue with our allies, so that we appear with equal information. I see the discussion that has gone on. The availability of information, not least from different informal sources, is high, and it is correct on the part of the authorities, in my opinion – which the Minister for Foreign Affairs was also involved – to constantly assess what is right in order to be able to balance the various considerations involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e600	I think it was almost alarming that the only one who didn't mention the veterans today was the Minister of Defense. But then I'm going to give her the opportunity to do it now. The government has set up a separate day for the veterans. That's what I think is a great move. The Minister of Defence has said that she should carry out a registration of all those who have been injured, which is then among those who have not been mentioned so often from the pulpit today. Can the day of the veto be an appropriate day for the Council of States to present that summary? Is she able to achieve something, so we can get an overview of how many who have sacrificed parts of their lives for us in the form of war damage when they have participated in operations in Afghanistan? Can the veteran's day be such a day? I wonder if the Minister of Defence can confirm that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e607	I am very proud of the efforts of our soldiers, and I am concerned to give our veterans the support and recognition that they will have. Before the vet day, we will present a separate action plan with well over 100 measures to improve the situation for our veterans who need help. As regards work on the statistics on injury, it is well under way with a view to completion by 1 July. There are 7,300 records to review. As of today, 4,963 have been reviewed. There are more than 1000 people with special attention to those who have gone through so far, from 2004 to 2011. I hope that I give the representative Skei Grande an idea of how strong it is on my heart that we ensure the situation of our veterans through both damage statistics and veterinary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e616	The government and NATO strategy is to gradually withdraw ISAF’s fighting forces and to be completely out of line by the end of 2014. Military strategy is like chess, you have to think more moves into the future. And if we now imagine that the Taliban is calming down and building up and we get a strong escalation of fighting actions beyond the summer and autumn of 2014, which makes it obvious that when we get so far, the Afghan authorities will still need military presence from the international community, will the government take an initiative to re-evaluate the final exit date, in the future towards the end of 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e623	It's interesting to try to predict, but we're working to contribute to a transition process that could be completed for the whole of Afghanistan by the end of 2014. Of course, we also focus on the unsafe situation in Faryab, and work closely with our allies in order to contribute to both the best possible security situation and to enable Afghan forces to take responsibility for themselves, as planned in the transition process. It is criterion-based when this responsibility will be transferred, but as I said, it is planned that such transfer will be carried out to Afghan security forces also in Faryab by the end of 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e628	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e632	I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the presentation. It is always interesting to hear what has been happening in Afghanistan since the last time. I've been thinking about something that the Foreign Minister has talked about several times, namely children's access to schools in Afghanistan. The Foreign Minister said in his statement that seven million children are now going to school in Afghanistan, and that is great. There's school in Afghanistan these days, and quite exactly one year ago, during the school year, President Karzai said that half of the Afghan children still don't go to school. Yes, I'm not in doubt that the situation has been much worse, but with 600,000 street children without parents, and with five million children without school facilities, it's probably still a little bit to go about protecting children in Afghanistan. What worries me is that it doesn't seem that the children are particularly priority. As long as there is still a high mortality rate for women in pregnancy and men are fighting for or against the Taliban, there are increasing numbers of orphans — children in need of protection. In Kabul, there are two orphanages — two orphanages — that are designed to protect the countless children living on the street and thus also living in a very vulnerable environment. It is not just war acts that threaten these children. There are also criminal gangs, drugs and sexual assaults. Here Norway should lead, and we actually have the opportunity and resources to do so. In cooperation with non-governmental organisations, Norway should also lift these children out of distress and misery and provide them with security and shelter. Of course, we should not build the country, the Afghans themselves should do so. But there is no contradiction in that – as long as there is war and conflict, children must be protected. That's what the Children's Convention says. 600 000 street children become adults once, and then these children form a group that has no illusions, no knowledge and no opportunity to be economically self-contained. They will then easily be able to recruit to extreme organisations that offer them financial assistance. Street children – in addition to five million who do not receive a school offer – are also the future of Afghanistan. So of all the assistance that goes to Afghanistan, I hope you can consider doing more for these kids, so that they don't get left alone when we pull out. There is one thing I would like to mention in this debate on Afghanistan. There is the use of aid and the results of its use. Norway has been and is one of the major contributors to the country’s construction. To this extent, Norway should not be able to help rebuild one of the poorest countries in the world. But what worries me is that we don't know how much of the assistance we contribute that actually reaches out to the people. We have read horror examples of that 35-40 pst. the means of assistance disappear on the road. Aid that should have helped the weakest ends up with the enemy you're trying to fight, namely terrorist groups. The director of the World Bank in Kabul, Mazurelle, even says to the AFP press agency: The waste of aid money is huge; in my 30-year career, I have never been involved in anything similar. So, like many others, I wonder how much of the assistance we're contributing, which we know actually comes to the recipients? What documentation requirements do we require for a project? And do we know that not the same project has been sold to more? With corruption at all levels, the same may happen with aid from Norway, as a United Nations report said in 2010, namely that corruption causes most development projects to either stop or not reach the areas where they would have affected the lives of poor people. I believe that Norway itself needs to target and follow its development projects to a greater extent, and be sure that the intentions we base on for a better Afghanistan also become a reality. I would also like to say to the Minister for Foreign Affairs that if he has not read the book of Linda Polman, called the 'Krisekaravanen', he should do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e658	I also want to start by thanking the Foreign Minister for his presentation, which I think was very sober and very good. Then I want to stress the seriousness for us in this room, and the responsibility we have when we send women and men out on a mission for a better world. I will admit that I know that it is a responsibility that weighs down. For me, it is important to understand and underline how demanding it is for our soldiers and other civilians serving in this conflict-filled country. They put down a great deal of work, with personal burdens for each one, for their families and closest. They deserve the honor and respect of this hall, and they need to know that we elected people are behind them in this demanding mission, and that we are not waving in our support. Does this mean, then, that we should not be able to have a debate on Afghanistan? No, absolutely not. We should, and must, be able to debate Norway's and the international community's efforts in Afghanistan, what results have been achieved, and not least what is possible for the country and its population there. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has given us a realistic account of the Afghanistan mission and the challenges we face. And we must be able to say that our own rhetoric and belief in Afghanistan has gone from being a little over-optimistic considering what is possible to achieve in a short time, to being now characterized by a realism about what results can actually be achieved. I believe, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that it is very important to recognise that in a few years the Afghan state cannot evolve as a modern Western society and from our point of view. It is therefore essential that we recognise that Afghanistan must be built on Afghan culture and traditions. It is the Afghans themselves who must build their country. The role of international society must be to assist and support the Afghan authorities. This means, as the Foreign Minister said, that we must live with the fact that the Afghans will be able to choose solutions other than those we in the West consider to be the best – solutions based on different traditions, different values and different governance models than those we perceive as ideal. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this can be demanding, but it is also absolutely essential that we have established such a recognition. Let me go back to the Norwegian men and women who assist on the ground in Afghanistan. I am concerned that they will have the necessary framework conditions to succeed in their mission, for the benefit of the people of Afghanistan. This concerns both military and civil efforts, which I believe must support each other and not undermine each other – which the Minister of Foreign Affairs also pointed out. I am concerned about the continuing public change of words about the correctness of the Norwegian strategy for Afghanistan. Opinions have been expressed from different levels, which are based on greater understanding than others, and are based on the fact that their own Afghanistan perspective and their strategy are the right one. For me, it is important to stress that the Storting should, of course, have continuous discussions on the situation in Afghanistan, but the strategy and objective of our Afghanistan exposure must be firm. If it cuts a little bit and the situation can seem demanding, we can't change the position every two months because it feels comfortable for us, or just say that we should withdraw. Then I believe that we are failing our own soldiers, we are failing the Afghan people, and we are failing the international community. One of the main objectives of the United Nations mandate is precisely to assist the Afghans so that they themselves will be able to rule their own country. Fortunately, in the Storting there is broad agreement on this, and it has been well expressed today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e677	As we know, our operations in Afghanistan are based on an explicit UN Security Council decision. A unanimous Security Council took decisions as early as 2001 and has subsequently repeatedly established that the situation in Afghanistan poses a threat to international peace and security. This is the main reason. The last decision of the Security Council – which is also very important – underlines the principles of Afghan ownership and the gradual transfer of responsibilities to Afghan authorities. In order to achieve a stable Afghanistan, it is essential to have a comprehensive strategy in both political, military, humanitarian and developmental instruments. Fortunately, there is a great deal of agreement in principle about such a strategy internationally. Unfortunately, such efforts do not seem to have been entirely successful across the sectors of Afghanistan. Our presence and the presence of Norway will contribute to social and economic development in the country and stability in the region. But there is no military solution to the conflict in Afghanistan. There must be a political solution before we can put a finish line, and it must be Afghan anchored. On this path towards a political solution, a military presence will be totally imposed, in order to create a security area where policy and economic development are possible. The Afghans must be the leaders of a political solution that must embrace all the groups that make up for us complex Afghan communities, including the neighbours of the region. We need to be contributors, to assist the Afghans, to a lesser extent to do so for them. However, we must be aware that the Afghans will also be able to make choices in the future and focus on values that are foreign to us and that we can strongly disagree with. Our presence in Afghanistan has a long-term perspective. Our military presence shall not exceed what is strictly necessary. It must gradually be stepped down as Afghan forces can take responsibility for their own security. But we must be aware that the population of Afghanistan has experienced 30 years of war, and we want visible results now of today's extensive international commitment. It's going slowly, but it's going forward. The Afghans have also had choices, and they have a elected leader. It was not a perfect choice, but it is nevertheless important that a choice has been made, and that there have been choices for both women and men. But there is still a huge need in this world’s fifth poorest country. There is a lack of capacity among Afghan authorities and structures. There is extensive corruption that must also be combated. It is self-interest and lack of coordination. But we, the 48 member countries that are part of ISAF, must take Afghan culture and traditions seriously. Western standard is not a scale here. If we are to succeed, we must listen to the Afghans' own wishes and needs. Of course, we do not accept corruption in this regard. The two most important questions now are: When are we going home? And how do we make progress in this country? Three things are important to put in place: Afghan ownership of what we do, international society must move in the same direction to get it done, and security and development must be well coordinated. We must prevent Afghanistan from once again developing into a base for international terrorism, in other words, being tempted to plan and carry out comprehensive terrorist actions. We must contribute to stability in the region and to social and economic development. I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his good statement based on realism and the complexity we have in this area. It is important that we have an open debate in the Norwegian community about the great international commitment we have there and what it has brought us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e698	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e701	I would also like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Fortunately, this is solid support for Norwegian Afghanistan policy. However, the Foreign Minister referred to President Karzai’s assessment of a future peace process in Afghanistan and referred to Karzai’s statement that it would be essential to involve what he calls ‘the leaders of yesterday’, that is, the Taliban. The Minister of Foreign Affairs had no objections, rather against an understanding of this. This is unacceptable. According to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Taliban itself is responsible for 80 pst. of the cases where civilians have been killed. Recently assessed, the Taliban is medieval and extremely human enemy. The Taliban stands for dictatorship, sharia light, women's oppression, bestial methods of punishment, sexual mutilation and political and religious fundamentalism. Reconciling with former Taliban soldiers who have come up with better thoughts is one thing. However, initiating cooperation with the Taliban terrorist organisation will be seen as a recognition of the organisation. It is a crime against the Afghan people. A former government here in Norway, based on the Foreign Minister’s own party, banned the National Collection Party in 1942, for good reason, by criminalising membership of the party. Collaborating with the Taliban now will be to compare with whether the Norwegian government had started cooperation with the National Collection in the summer of 1945 in order to achieve so-called reconciliation. Maybe it's a bizarre comparison, but it's so bad! The Minister of Foreign Affairs is running a risk of de minimising the relationship with some of the forces in the world we like least. First, it was Hamas, so the Muslim brotherhood in Egypt, and now, therefore, an indifferent attitude to the future role of the Taliban in Afghanistan. We must uphold some important principles in our cooperation with other countries and with Afghan authorities. I urge the Foreign Minister to clarify this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e712	There came many interesting and good perspectives in the posts after I kept my main post, so let me just briefly comment on it. The representative of Ellingen was concerned with the role of President Karzai. I stressed in my speech that it is complex, and that for us in many contexts it is a foreign political culture that is expressed. At the same time, it is important for us, if the aim is to allow Afghanistan to stand on its own, that this President is, after all, elected to the people, that Parliament is, after all, elected to the people, that women, after all, have the right to vote and that this is a platform for Afghanistan to take this further. Then we have zero tolerance for corruption. If we get across that Norwegian projects are involved in activities where corruption is taking place, we have quick access to stop the cash flow that had to go in such a direction. It's very important. Then there was an interesting post about children in Afghanistan. Clearly, giving the growing generation in Afghanistan a different perspective on what the future can bring than what has been usual in the past is important. That is why schooling is one of the areas in which Norway is committed. We have been concerned, as was stated by several speakers, not to fragment the assistance. Within the broad portfolio of schools, I believe Norway has supported projects that have provided much better prospects for children. Questions were also raised as to whether Norway is providing project assistance to projects supported by others, so that the aid could be doubled. It's a phenomenon we should be very aware of, and make sure that it's as good control procedures as possible. Therefore, Norway has also chosen, in addition to the projects with which we have direct management, to go through established and up-to-date channels where we believe we have the best security we can have in projects in this demanding country. To the representative of Myhre, I would like to say that it is the Afghans who are to make amends. It is not we who are to enter into negotiations with the various groupings in Afghanistan. It is the Afghans themselves who must choose that way. It should be inclusive. I record that from the vast majority of NATO allies, from the United States and votes in the regions, it is said that that perspective must be inclusive, also in the case of the large groups of people in the south, where the Taliban is strong, but where it is about bringing the groups – the pashtunes and all the ethical groups – together. Perhaps one of the errors after 2001 was that the Bonn conference was not at the time inclusive enough, and that groups were not responsible for Afghanistan’s development. It's right, as the representative says, that we have to stick to the principles. The principles are that the political solution must be Afghan – anchored among the Afghans – and acceptable to the Afghans. That's what we can do. I do not want to comment on all the other claims that were mentioned about my indifferent role in relation to terror and other activities. They fall at my discretion on their own unfairness, and of course I am not in their favor.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e731	In summary, this debate shows the broad consensus there is both with regard to the Norwegian contribution scheme and that we should actually be present. It is good to know for those serving on behalf of Norway in Afghanistan. It is also good for Norway's position in the international community that we have a broad consensus behind this effort. Nevertheless, I would like to comment on a few things that the Minister for Foreign Affairs was involved in his first post. What he said was that it was a dangerous exersis to evaluate the various possible ups and downs of American forces. My point was to ask whether Norway has thought through what might happen to the Norwegian contribution, both civil and military, if the Americans withdraw from Faryab, where we are heavily present. What does it want to say for our contribution? What will be the consequences? I was also concerned about questions related to what happens if the Afghan army or Afghan security forces are unable to maintain the level they are now in the process of getting through, among other things. Norwegian mentors. In my opinion, it is important to know. It is important to know that Norway has taken into account changes that may have a significant impact on our contribution. There may also be changes that do not affect our contribution. I am only interested in knowing whether this is something the government has thought through, and in that case what assessments have been made. I would say that it would be a dangerous exersis to let not think through and not discuss possible scenarios that might come out of changes on the American side. The Minister for Foreign Affairs was also concerned about the issue of fragmentation, and I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that there is a great deal of concern about a fragmented effort by 48 contributors. We can actually view it as a pyramid, where we can put the overall ISAF strategy at the top, then put all the 48 countries, and under it again put different civil and military strategies. Some have closer coordination, others don't, and overall, this can give a very fragmented image. And the challenge was – as we were also presented when the committee was in Afghanistan last April – to get all the actors to avoid literally planting flags on the projects they were working on. If you're going to be able to win uprisings about the Afghan government and the Afghan authorities, it's not useful for each country to put a small flag on its project and say that this is a well built by the United States, or that this is a school built by Norway. In order to gain support and support, it must be seen as projects, development, progress from the Afghan authorities. Faryab is not a Norwegian province, but that's where we are the heaviest. We've even created our own Faryab strategy, which means that of course we have extra interest in what's happening in the area where we've deployed our soldiers and also the weight of our civil engagement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e742	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his feedback on the question of how we should deal with future cooperation between the Afghan authorities and the Taliban. The Foreign Minister said both today and Tuesday that this reconciliation process must be owned by the Afghans. We all understand that. However, what the Foreign Minister also said on Tuesday was, and now I quote from the distributed manuscript: ‘We have to show understanding of such an assessment’ – that is, understanding an assessment that requires the inclusion of the Taliban in a reconciliation process, in cooperation with the Afghan Government. That is probably the difference between the Foreign Minister and me, that I have no understanding that cooperation should be started with one of the world's worst terrorist organisations in order to achieve reconciliation. Firstly, I have no faith that there will be any reconciliation; secondly, there is good reason to believe – or fear – that in such a process some of the moderate cancers in Afghanistan will react and perhaps withdraw from the reconciliation process, and then we have it going on again. Therefore, my criticism of the Minister for Foreign Affairs at this point. I believe that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been too unclear about his view of the future role that the Taliban is going to play in Afghanistan, and I maintain that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e752	It is important, as the chairman of the Committee says, how the various countries dispose of their military resources. I want to underline it. It's also important and right of us to have close contact with the biggest contributor, the United States, who now also has soldiers in this area where we have soldiers. I can confirm that we have that. Do we think through different options, how can this go up and down? Yes, we and the military planners do. I can also confirm that. I'll still be a little careful with almost engaging in a self-fulfilling prophecy, standing on the pulpit of the Great Britain and saying that if the Americans pull down with so much, or up with so much, then Norway will do that or that. The point is again, as I said: this is not a Norwegian issue, it is an ISAF matter. ISAF is responsible for Faryab. Norway plays a role there, and it is important that we take those debates and make the core structures of ISAF responsible for thinking about the consequences of the different countries’ contributions. I also note that the Americans, in the advertising of their gradual dwindling, stress – as the committee's chairman said in his statement – that it will take place in the light of ground conditions and what the situation permits, and it will take place in the overall perspective of transition, i.e. transfer of responsibility to Afghan authorities. And then we're going to have hope -- and I'm afraid we're going to have -- that the U.S. authorities are going to follow up on what those people are saying. Now I'm not going to extend the debate with the representative Myhre, except to say that he is using a word here, that I have been in favour of ‘cooperation’ between the Taliban and the Afghan Government. That I think is to draw it a little bit long. What I have said is that there must be a reconciliation process in Afghanistan, and I say exactly the same thing as the US, German and French authorities do, and the countries of the region, that that reconciliation should involve everyone who wants to participate in the foundation of the Afghan Constitution. We know that what is called the Taliban includes large groups of mostly young men who enter and leave armed activities – when they have work, when they have no work – and who have to be offered a different perspective, which is not about war, but about peaceful development. At some point there must also be an understanding of the political process in Afghanistan, where groups are drawn out of violence and involved in politics. Of course, our fundamental condemnation of all terrorism, of all violence against civilians, stands firm and strikes the Taliban on a broad front. The fact that Myhre has no understanding that there can be such reconciliation, I assume that the parties in Afghanistan remember. On the Norwegian side, it is important to stand firm at what we said at the NATO summit in Lisbon, namely that we wanted a reconciliation process, the work of the Peace Council, and then we get our support on that as best we can. But as I said, there is a reconciliation between Afghans, not a cooperation between us and the Taliban, or the Government of Afghanistan and the Taliban, but a reconciliation process that provides Afghanistan with a stable system of governance, based on a constitution that the world can also deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e765	Let me follow up a little bit where the Minister for Foreign Affairs left off, saying that there is a good cooperation between those countries that are engaged in the north, especially in Faryab, and there is a unified understanding of the tasks that need to be solved in the coming years. There are several areas in Faryab that are today characterised by insurrection, and especially demanding are the Ghowrmach district west of Faryab. In this district, where American forces operate with the Afghans, 37 kilometres of the critically important bypass remains to be completed, connecting the largest population centers in Afghanistan. The completion of the bypass will be an important prerequisite for safety in this area and thus also an important prerequisite for the transition. The combination of a small number of security forces, weak government structures and the lack of completion of the ring road does, as we have already pointed out, that Faryab is not considered ready for transition yet. We have close and good cooperation with our allies in Faryab. We will give priority to enhanced cooperation with our allies in the North Region Command so that our efforts in North Afghanistan will be as coordinated and effective as possible in the coming period. As mentioned, there are already a significant number of US forces in Faryab, and there are now signs that other capacities in the Regional Command North can also be moved westwards. The increased American presence in northern Afghanistan in the last few years has been of great value. Norwegian and American forces in the province of Faryab have close cooperation, including: on helicopter medical evacuation. We have no indication that the United States will place less emphasis on North Afghanistan's efforts. On the contrary, there is now an extensive expansion of American infrastructure and facilities in Faryab. The U.S. also sees the bypass as strategically important, and they will be heavily involved in its completion. Together with the United States and other countries involved in Faryab, we are working with the aim of facilitating the Afghan takeover of responsibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e776	The representative Peter N. Myhre has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e780	I did not really intend to ask for the floor several times in this debate, but when the Foreign Minister says that the representative Myhre does not believe in a reconciliation process, and that the Afghan authorities will surely notice it, I will protest. That's not what I said. I guess I have exactly the same belief in the reconciliation process as most of the others in this room, but it's much less optimistic if we think that the Taliban is going to participate in such a process. When the Foreign Minister refers to the French and American authorities, there are two different things we're talking about. One is the obvious fact that Afghan authorities are themselves responsible for managing this process. The second question, and which I have raised, is whether we should have an understanding of it when the Afghan authorities want to involve the Taliban organisation. I have addressed this criticism to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and it stands firm.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e787	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e793	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e816	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Foreign Affairs at the Stortinget meeting on 26 April 2011 on developments in Afghanistan as well as Norwegian civil and military engagement be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-28.ana.ud807e830	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
