ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e26	The representatives of Ingarill Olsen, Arve Kambe, Sigvald Opbebøen Hansen and Snorre Serigstad Valen, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Hordaland County: Filip Rygg and Einar Horvei For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Jon Georg Dale For Oslo: Afshan Rafiq For South-Trundellag County: Knut Tomb For the Westfold province: Heidi Ørnlo For Eastfold County: Stein Erik Lauvås and Kari Agerup
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e78	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e81	On behalf of Borghild Tenden and myself, I will make two proposals. There are proposals for immediate follow-up to the measures to combat rape, as outlined in NOU 2008:4, and there are proposals for the regularisation of paperless immigrants in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e86	The representative, Siv Jensen, wants to put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e89	On behalf of Mette Hanekamhaug, Åse Michaelsen, Bente Thorsen, Solveig Horne, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Karin S. Woldseth, Siv Aida Rui Skatem, Åshild Karoline Haugland, Laila Marie Reiertsen and myself I am delighted to propose a rebellion against the rape wave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e94	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e106	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The first main question is from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e111	Today, on the NRK website, we read that Oslo is the capital of rape in Scandinavia. It's basically not a statistic it's especially desirable to top. We have come into a situation where more and more women feel considerably insecure. Many people report that they no longer want to go alone after dark. It's a failure statement for a society that focuses on equality. It's a failure statement for a society that wants to focus on security, when we now see a wave of assault violence especially entering the capital. There has been a lot of focus on measures to combat rape. But it's very hard to see that the government has actually followed this up. I also record that Minister of Justice Storberget is basically sniffing at all those who have now participated in this debate over the last few days and pointing to challenges, pointing to the lack of follow-up. In that case, I think it is appropriate to challenge the Prime Minister for this – simply because when so many women express a considerable degree of insecurity, it is the responsibility of politicians to contribute to the return of that security. This is about taking action; it's about more visible police — of course — it's about better use of DNA analysis to get to the perpetrators more quickly. Of course, it is also about the fact that unfortunately it is asylum seekers who are overrepresented in these statistics. Action must also be taken against this group. My question is, When is the government going to take these measures, so that women can feel more secure in the streets, in the capital and in the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e120	I would first like to thank the representative Jensen for addressing a very important question. The way we now have it, especially in Oslo, we're not going to have it. Rape is one of the most serious forms of violence, of crime. It is serious for those who are affected, for the victims, but it is also serious for very many other people, who experience fear. Fear itself is a big problem for many, many people who experience it by moving around, for example. in this city. Therefore, it is important that we discuss what big business, government, politicians can do, what we can do in cooperation with local authorities and what we can do together, as a society to combat rape. The government eventually set up a separate public body to look at measures. It has come up with its position, and we are now following up measures in line with many of those proposals, but also in line with some other proposals. One thing we've done is we've set up our own investigation team on rape crime. It's connected to Kripos, because then we're also drawn to the resources that are there. It will be strengthened in the 2012 budget, increasing from eight to 16 employees from 2010 to 2012. The second thing we do is we increase the police staff in Oslo with more jobs. The third thing that has been done is to increase the levels of penalties, both maximum and minimum penalties. In addition, the Oslo Police Chamber has announced today that they will protect the morality and violence section for other tasks, so that they can concentrate on these rape crimes, and in addition strengthen the staffing of that section. We've also implemented a DNA reform that now allows us to collect many more DNA samples, which thus provide better evidence.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e129	The Progress Party is very pleased that the police are taking this rape wave seriously, and based on the resource situation they have, they are trying to make the most of it. But it is not exactly when the Prime Minister claims that the government is now strengthening the police force. It is true that the police have received funds in the next year's state budget, but it is primarily for all purposes other than manning. We are thus in a situation where comparable capitals in Scandinavia have significantly higher police coverage than Oslo and Norway. This is where the police coverage goes down. When we also see reverse developments in relation to the number of rapes committed, there is a clear sign of a link between police coverage and violence. It is time for the government to take this into account and acknowledge that police coverage in Norway is too low. It must lead to more ear-marked means to strengthen manning, not to strengthen all other purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e134	The government believes that the police coverage, the number of police officers in Norway, is too low. That's why we've been stepping up our efforts over the years. The first thing we had to do was train too few policemen – that was an important limitation on how many policemen we could hire. Now we've doubled the recording at the Police College, and that means that more police officers are now trained than ever before. We have also increased police staffing and will increase staffing further in 2012, in addition to what is required to follow-up, for example. the investigation after 22 July. So there's more to it than increased investigation capacity targeting rape crimes. Then we believe that in addition to what we do in terms of the police, which is important, it is important that we establish cooperation with local authorities. We see that some other cities have succeeded, we need to see what we can do in relation to cooperation with the outdoor industry, taxi industry and others. I am also of the opinion that we must be very open and honest about the fact that even though the vast majority of people with foreign citizenship in Norway are law-abiding, they are overrepresented among rape criminals, and we must also take action in relation to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e141	Three follow-up questions have been asked, and at least that will be the case – first Åse Michaelsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e144	If all of this, as the Prime Minister now says, had been initiated, and had worked, not all of these rapes had taken place. The Judicial Committee was in Stavanger on Monday and was then briefed on how to take the night back in Stavanger. Why does this work in Stavanger, but not in Oslo, if all these measures here have been started? Well, because Oslo and the area around may have a parallel society, it was pointed out, consisting of criminal asylum seekers, by people without legal residence, etc. Doesn't the police here have a chance of going deep? It doesn't look like it's possible. Will the Prime Minister finally see to it that we have enough resources to take back the night also in Oslo, and set up closed receptions for both those who have been rejected and those who are waiting?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e151	Firstly, we have taken action this year, but we have also announced new measures next year. It is in the budget that is now under discussion in Stortinget, among others. several posts for the investigation of rape offences in the own investigation unit established. Then the Storting must make those decisions in order for that money to be put in place. Action has been taken and several measures will be taken once the budgets have been adopted by the Storting. In the case of asylum seekers, it is important to stress the following: the vast majority of asylum seekers comply with Norwegian law and it is allowed to apply for asylum in Norway. But at the same time, it is absolutely right that, at least in the case of assaults in Oslo, there is a great overrepresentation of people with foreign citizenship. There are one of several reasons why this government has stepped up forcefully. Forced return has increased sharply, with more than 4000 forced returns. It also increases the number of voluntary returns. Of those who have been forced to return, a large proportion have committed criminal offences. There is one of many contributions to doing something about this problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e158	André Oktay Dahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e161	Raping someone is one of the simplest, most serious, worst people can do to another person. In 5 minutes, a rapist can completely destroy the life of a woman or a man – for years, maybe for the rest of his life. The right agrees that broad efforts are needed to prevent this. Oslo Municipality is also doing a very good job in many fields, but Oslo, and Right, are calling for more policemen to cooperate with to take back the city and security. That security is gone, and that's the government's responsibility. Visible police to prevent anything from happening, and enough people to investigate, that you actually take the criminals, is a political responsibility, not least for a majority government that has been sitting for six years. Is the Prime Minister satisfied that police coverage is, in fact, going downwards, not upwards, that the Oslo Police have become less able to prevent and investigate rape, and that, therefore, women's safety is reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e169	I also fully agree that we need more policemen. One of the first obstacles we encountered when we took over in 2005 was that the previous government had put too little effort into training policemen. That's why we've doubled the recording at the Police College. Then it takes a few years to train new policemen. Now we're getting big new coals out, and we're recruiting more policemen. In addition, we have signed an agreement with the police to release new annual works. Then there is a budget in the Storting now, as the Storting has to deal with, where we are further increasing the appropriations for the police and the appropriations for the special unit set up to deal with the rape crime. So we need more police, and more police are coming. In addition to that, we need to follow up our cooperation with local authorities – it should inspire us that some cities do it, then we also need to see what we can do in Oslo. We must follow up on the forced return of people who do not have legal residence in this country – a sharp increase – and we must also follow up on investigation methods.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e174	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e177	Girls and women, boys and men who are being assaulted are being seriously violated. We can't let this infringement happen, we have to get zero tolerance against assault. We have to reverse the evolution, and we know a lot about what's going on. We need to focus more on prevention, more on awareness-raising work at school and also on some of our new countrymen. We need to have more visible police, better urban planning, a sensible search policy, good low threshold offers, as a web portal. We need to get better help for those who are being assaulted, and we need to bet on research, not only on who is doing the assault, but also on why they are doing it. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he will agree to say 'zero tolerance against abuse', an action that we can start in this Chamber today, by the Prime Minister standing behind this vision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e184	I fully agree that rape is a very serious form of crime, that it creates great problems for those who are exposed to it, but also for very many other people who experience fear. That is why I also believe that we should think carefully about whether we can do even more than what is now in the budget to step up efforts to combat rape. One of these possibilities, of course, is to formulate a common vision of zero tolerance. But just because it's such an important question, I think it's a good idea for me and the government to think through whether that's the way we're going to formulate it. I would like to have a dialogue with the Stortinget on how best to formulate a joint effort against rape. We have zero tolerance in other areas, for example: in the case of traffic damage and bullying. That's why it's not a strange idea for me also to have it in terms of rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e191	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e194	Today, the news has also been marked by other bad news for Norway. 700 people have lost their jobs permanently when the REC is now laying down its factories in Her Island, Glomfjord and Narvik. Every time this kind of structural change occurred under the previous government, the Workers' Party's representatives came on the track and said that we need a more active state, and asked what measures and instruments the government was going to present to stop a business closure. After six and a half years with today's government, it's probably like an active state has become the most active chatter ever. There are no instruments in the current situation to stop this kind of closure in the short term. There is only one major instrument in the long term, and it is to ensure that the competitiveness of the Norwegian economy is so strong and for Norwegian companies so good that we are doing well. There are some gloomy prospects at the moment, based on less international traction. Since the financial crisis, we have lost 57 000 jobs in the private sector in Norway. When REC assesses why they are going down, they say that there is demand that is failing, but it is also that they are unable to compete with their businesses in Norway. My question to the Prime Minister is: What strategy does the government intend to put for the competitiveness of Norwegian business in the future? When you read the national budget, there's only one answer, and that's good economic governance in macro. But we know that competitiveness for a company is competitive in micro – being competitive when they meet customers, being better, more skilled, smarter than their competitors. What is the government's strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e207	The government’s strategy is to continue to pursue a policy of value creation, innovation, profitable Norwegian enterprises and many jobs in Norway. Of course, the fact that we have done well so far is no guarantee that we will succeed in the years to come, because there will be new challenges. But it is an expression that this government has shown in practice for six years that this is an area that it takes the most seriously and gets good results. There have been almost 300,000 more employed in Norway since we took over in 2005. There's about ten times as strong growth in employment under this government as under the previous government. Two thirds of the new jobs have come from private Norwegian enterprises. So it goes up, and it goes down, but overall it's a formidable development in employment. We have low unemployment compared to almost every other country, and we now have lower unemployment in the Norwegian economy with financial crises out in the world economy than we had in the last government without a financial crisis. We're going to keep track of the Norwegian economy. It is crucial for interest rates, exchange rates and the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. We will continue to pursue a monetary policy that takes account of the stability of the Norwegian economy, and we will continue to pursue an income policy with tripartite cooperation that helps to ensure the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. In addition, we have increased our efforts on research and innovation. It gives new businesses in Norway, and it also gives them a change of pace, as we close something old and create something new. We've increased investment in transportation by about 100 billion. kr during this planning period compared to what the previous government provided. So we do a lot of work and we add, among other things. facilitating an enormous increase in the number of start-ups of small and medium-sized enterprises, inter alia. by now implementing comprehensive simplification measures, including: the abolition of the audit obligation, which is an important simplification measure for small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e220	I think the Prime Minister should be honest enough to say that in the years that have passed since the financial crisis started in the autumn of 2008, Norwegian business actually lost many jobs in the private sector. That shows the statistics. All European countries had growth between 2005 and 2008 in the private sector, where businesses that could be competitive had to do so. What's our challenge is that now we meet a market that's getting smaller. In that market, Norwegian companies will compete, and in that market, every year since Jens Stoltenberg became Prime Minister, we have gained less competitiveness measured by all international parameters. We have a higher wage increase than the others. It would have been nice if we had been competitive, better at research and development. But there we are lagging behind in relation to the European Union. It would have been great if we had had lower costs in terms of investment, i.e. in terms of road and transport. But there too we are worse off. When will the government establish a real strategy for competitiveness in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e233	I believe that the goal of good competitiveness is to have competitive businesses and profitable jobs, and we do. We have 300,000 more of them now than when the Right crashed. There are many different ways to measure competitiveness, but the purpose – the goal – is that you have profitable businesses. We have more profitable businesses now, more private enterprises – more private jobs – and we have had stronger growth than under the previous government. I have not said that there is any guarantee that we will automatically get it in the years to come, but it shows at least that keeping the economy in order, investing in innovation and research, continuing this government's formidable commitment to business simplification, are measures that help to make it easier to start profitable businesses – private enterprises – in Norway. It's given us good results, and we're going to keep on doing that. I would also like to say that there are certainly countries with lower wage growth than Norway, but they have significantly higher unemployment and significantly lower employment. So an expression that the Norwegian economy has tolerated a high pay level is that we have high productivity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e240	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Svein Flätten.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e243	I think the prime minister should be careful to boast of the large number of jobs. He should read the writing on the wall. It comes from the Ministry of Finance, and it says that no new private jobs have been created in this country since 2008. That's where we are. Private value creation and private enterprises are fading, and they are losing their competitiveness. The question is, in fact, quite simply: what is the message from the Prime Minister of this year's government budget, which he has presented, to reverse this development that his own finance department has now said we are in the middle of?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e249	The short answer to that is the national budget. There we have presented an economic policy that facilitates economic growth, growth in employment, including in private activities in 2012. If the Stortinge adopts the State budget, the national budget, we will present a policy – adopt a policy – that will facilitate growth in Norwegian business also next year, including in private activities. For example, in order to clarify it a little bit, it works. to keep the economy in order. That's a very important question. This government agrees on how to do this, while the opposition totally disagrees on how to do it. It's about continuing the escalation of time in the bet on transportation, it's about continuing to bet on innovation and innovation, and it's about simplification. There are things contained in our budgetary documents, these are things that we are implementing, and that are continuing a policy that has given low unemployment, high employment and good growth in private enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e254	Ketil Solvik-Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e257	The former Prime Minister’s employer, the SSB, publishes a trade journal entitled Economic Analysis. In economic analysis no. From this year onward, it is said that labour market growth started in 2004, i.e. before this government took over, and that it has increased by around 250,000–300000 jobs. That's right. But it started before this government took over. And then we're going to go on in this version: «The employment of general government has increased by 40000 persons over the last two years, while there has been a significant downturn in cyclically exposed industries.» So it's a slightly different picture than what the prime minister describes. Firstly, the economic upturn began independently of red-green policies. To the extent that the red-greens have achieved something, employment has flattened after they took over. The second is: it's the government that's made sure it's flattened out and hasn't gone down. Does the Prime Minister think that the SSB is right in its analysis?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e269	I have a great deal of respect for the Central Statistical Office – I myself have been involved in writing economic analyses in due course, with responsibility for the business cycle services in Iceland – and I have great faith in their analysis of the economic fluctuations in the Norwegian economy today. It is quite obvious that cyclically exposed industries have suffered a decline. That was the entire impact of the financial crisis and the setback in the international economy. Now cyclical industries are something other than private enterprise. There has been growth in other private enterprises, although there has been a decline in some cyclical industries. We have to hope and believe that international economic cycles are turning around. We have put forward an economic policy that will allow us to increase investment in private business in Norway, leading to further growth in private business – both cyclically exposed and non-cyclically exposed private business. The point of referring to the historical figures is that for six years this government has been responsible for an economic policy that contributes to job security, while the opposition said that we would build up the private sector before the 2005 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e280	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e283	It may be a little uncertain how many of the people who lose their job are concerned about different history descriptions. The situation is very serious for the communities now affected. For example, the Nordic Industry Councils may: This is the same as 15 years of construction of industrial workplaces in Northern Ireland. It hits Narvik, it hits Glomfjord, and in Telemark we know it hits Porsgrund. The question for those now facing acute difficulties is how the state and the authorities can make a positive contribution. The Nordic side points out that the means of conversion will be very important in this context, not least in order to keep young workers in the county. My question is, how will the government respond to this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e292	Local authorities affected by an extra-large decline in employment have their own guidelines, for example: use of own means of conversion. Then we'll sit down and see if it's relevant in these matters. I am absolutely sure that both the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Economic Affairs are ready, provided that the decline in employment is so great that the guidelines we are going to apply are relevant. Otherwise, I would say it's very serious what we're facing in the international economy, and it can easily turn into the Norwegian economy. It can hit us in three ways, partly by Norwegian companies selling smaller goods and services to the rest of the world because foreigners buy fewer goods and services. If fewer goods and services are purchased abroad, there will also be fewer jobs in many Norwegian enterprises. The other thing we see is that the price of what we sell can go down. We've already seen it in the case of aluminium, salmon and some other products. It will also affect the profitability of Norwegian enterprises and threaten Norwegian jobs. The third thing we see is that if the European banking system is not quickly secured, it can also enter the Norwegian banking system. It is a very serious situation and danger for Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e303	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e306	I want to ask our good Prime Minister a question about the hospital situation in the country. The government is building the largest hospital in northern Europe in the Oslo region. 1000 annual works are to be removed in the first instance. The goal is the very best: a better offer for patients, but what is happening in practice? To succeed, a plan is needed, time is needed, economic space is needed, and active involvement of motivated employees and professionals is needed, but none of these assumptions seems to be present in this difficult process of conversion. From the very beginning, the State Health Authority has reported its concerns. It didn't turn out to be for no reason. Siri Hatlen, who has shown for years that she can and will carry out major changes in the hospital sector, has had to throw the cards. The 20,000 employees are despaired about the situation. One of their chief trustees, Aasmund Bredeli says: ‘The hospitals in Oslo were merged without any professional, economic or organisational planning. We've always pointed out the consequences of this, and how impossible it has been to do this. Now we see that the negative consequences are coming in the form of de-motivated employees, who cannot do their work properly." «Operations and treatments must be deleted, waiting lists increased, and the entire operational situation in hospitals has become so difficult that it is impossible to continue the current situation.» Some of the reorganisations have also led to a weakening of patient services, and we have seen the reports on the development of the stroke offer, which must be said to be a clear deterioration in quality. The State Health Authority calls for a halt of half, the county doctor believes it is time to take a break to ensure that proper operation is taken into account. The concern is not just about the hospitals in the Oslo area, we know that a number of hospitals in Health South-East must save hundreds of millions of dollars next year. Despite these danger signals we've picked up countless times, this process continues on autopilot. Loyal bureaucrats are put into leadership positions and trusted elected ones are tried to silence. Will the Prime Minister now help to stop and think about this process?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e331	I think it is absolutely necessary to carry out modernisation and renewal in Norwegian hospitals. It's for patients' sake. Then, of course, we're always going to strive to do it in a way that's as much as possible in dialogue with the employees, but I don't think it's possible to guarantee that conversion takes place without any kind of conflict or conflict. The reason why we need it is because this government has put a lot of emphasis on health. There are 1.3 million more people now being investigated and treated in Norwegian hospitals than in 2005. More people get treatment and more survive – that's good! We are the country in Europe that spends the most on health per capita, and we spend almost twice as much on health in Norway as the average in Europe. We have the highest medical coverage in the North and are among those in the world that have the most. Nevertheless, we do not have as good a health service as we want, and that underlines the need for renewal. What we do in the Oslo area is a consequence of, among other things, that it was not reasonable to have two health regions covering hospitals in this area. This led to poor work sharing, duplication of tasks and poor use of our resources for patients. We got a worse offer than what we can get with a new organization, which we are now in the process of implementing. The second reason for that conversion is that a unanimous magnification, or at least a broad majority on the Stortinget, decided to build Ahus. So we transfer 160 000 people/patients to Ahus. Clearly, it has consequences for Oslo University Hospital. There will be fewer patients, while there will be more patients at Ahus. It's always hard to take down the crew, but it's like the downfall in Oslo is less than the increase in staff at Ahus. Overall, there are more doctors, more nurses and more treatment capacity for the Oslo population now than before the changeover.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e344	With all due respect, I have to say that this lecture was not an answer to my question. I asked the Prime Minister if it is such that when there are such strong danger signals from the independent supervisory authority, when there are also so strong messages from employees' representatives, and it is such that you have had to change the director and director and put obedient bureaucrats into these roles, is it not my question: is there not a signal that you might need to take a time-out, a think-out, as the county board asks, and make sure you add the necessary means of conversion? I remember very well when the representative, Stoltenberg, ran by the side of the Norwegian hospital during a major conversion phase and called for more money for conversion, more money for conversion. The difference between the then government and the present is that we listened to it, and there was more money for conversion. I think that Stoltenberg should listen to what is now being taken up from so many teams.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e355	The county doctor has raised some issues and asked some questions. It is clear that if circumstances such as safety is at stake, action must be taken to deal with it. It's the responsibility of the hospitals, and that's what I assume. But to stop the transition, I think it's wrong because it's going to take longer before we succeed in providing a better offer to the population of the Oslo area. This will lead to a longer period of time before we get the results we are looking for: we implement what is the consequence of now seeing the hospitals in the Oslo area in the context, and the consequences of building a large new hospital in Lørenskog, which necessarily gets many new patients. from the former Ullevål, Oslo University Hospital, as a local hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e360	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e363	No one in this room is asking us to stop the switch, but we are asking questions about how we are going to carry out this conversion. What I'm registering is that the Prime Minister's cork will listen to professionals, to the Health Inspectorate, to the County Board or to the Dagfinn Høybräten, who asked the good questions now. When Dagfinn was appointed Minister of Health, the health cows went down, the conversion processes went on hams. Today we feel that the health cows are going up, and there is no one who thinks that the conversion processes are going on. The rest of them say they're wasteballs at the end. In the evening post yesterday we could read about relatives who say that it is only by chance that a person can experience the Norwegian health service at his best or at his worst. My question to the Prime Minister is: Should it be random if stroke patients and unborn people get good and quick help?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e372	The answer to that question is no, so it's important that we do two things. One is that we donate more money to the hospitals. That's what this government has done, and so will the government next year if the Storting decides on the budget. So we need more money for health – and that's what we're doing. But the second thing is that we have to spend the money better. When Norway is a country that spends twice as much on health as the average in Europe, when we are at the top of the North in medical coverage and have increased sharply in recent years, I also believe it is important to carry out reorganisations. What we're doing in Oslo is getting a better work sharing between hospitals. It's taking the consequences of building a big new hospital, where the Stortinget thought we were going to transfer 160,000 patients. Then it's going to have to be less for some hospitals to do more for others, where we have increased investment. Then I believe the conversions will be carried out. But of course we have to listen. Of course, we should listen to objections and have dialogue, but it is something other than taking a break or stopping the conversions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e377	Per Arne Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e380	Unfortunately, we are now seeing a Prime Minister who I see as being treated as the Minister of Health. Let it be said from this pulpit that there are no parties in this Chamber who disagree that we should have a more efficient and modern health system. The Norwegian hospital system all over the country, but perhaps especially Oslo University Hospital, is in crisis. We get daily reports of how bad it is. An investigation into a possible death has been opened because of this. The last thing is that the county doctor in Oslo has sent a letter with 16 points because he is concerned about patient safety, the working environment, etc. Think of it as follows: If it had been a strike and you had been given supervision and this letter, I am convinced that the government had intervened with forced pay. The question is then: When you had done it in a strike situation, why don't you intervene today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e387	It's the county doctor's job to keep up with, among other things. in the case of patient safety. If he thinks it is necessary to ask questions, it is also right that he asks questions. If that is not a good answer, action must be taken. That's the kind of supervision we have in the Norwegian health care system. We need that, because although the totals and total results in the Norwegian health care system are good, there are unfortunately too many single examples of patients not receiving the treatment they require. These include: the reason why this government has now done much more to publish quality figures for hospitals. Getting more public around it is a prerequisite for taking action on the lack of quality and patient safety in Norwegian hospitals. We're just going to look at it, whether there's a hospital where there's a change, or hospitals where there's no change. And so even though we have simple examples that things don't work and that we have to do something with, the main picture is that we treat more patients than ever, and that survival and the results of the treatments are better than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e392	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e395	I think there is reason to remind the Prime Minister that Oslo University Hospitals and Aarhus are not factories, but businesses that are engaged in life-critical tasks in society, where changes that are not well thought about can quickly have dramatic consequences. Already on 12 October 2010 I got the Minister of Health to come to Stortinget to explain the process of conversion, precisely because already at that time the director of Oslo University Hospital had expressed great concern about – over two months before the process was going on – that this was not well thought out. At that time, the Minister of Health said: ‘In a phase of heavy conversion, communication management is very important in order to create understanding and build trust.’ So my question to the Prime Minister is, is what characterises the process of conversion now, that the Minister of Health has succeeded in creating confidence and understanding for the changes that are now taking place?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e407	The fact that there is a conflict around a conversion does not necessarily mean that it is wrong to implement it. Often it is that changes are marked by conflict, but in retrospect it turns out that it was correct. Then we're going to listen to the county doctor and others if there's any real fault, and we're going to take action against it. It's the hospital's responsibility. But again, one of the reasons we're doing a conversion is that we've built a new, nice hospital in Lørenskog. It has meant that there will be less treatment at Oslo University Hospital. The number of daily stays at Oslo University Hospital has fallen by 20 pst. from last year to this year and the number of doctors has fallen by 4 pst. So it's 20 pst. fewer treated in these hospitals, while there are 4 pst. fewer employees. It is an expression that here there is some capacity that should be used in another way. That's why we're going to continue the transfer of resources, so that we get the transition we're dedicated to implementing, in the interests of patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e414	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e418	Climate was not a major theme in the election campaign. We can say that the only times we heard about climate policy were between the State Council Borten Moe and the State Council Solheim. I may be a little worried that the Prime Minister was at the Borten Mos party in the discussion that really was. But then we have been informed by the Minister for the Environment that due to the cruel acts of July 22, we have been exposed to the climate announcement. In a radio debate with me, the Minister for the Environment said it would come in January 2012. My question is: Can the Prime Minister promise me that a message that is urgent as the climate announcement actually does will come when the Minister for Environment promised – in January 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e425	That message has been notified next six months. I dare not say exactly which month – I will check which month it is announced – but it is at least announced in the new year, and then the Storting will get it for treatment. However, I would like to stress that there is a widespread misunderstanding that the climate agreement was a compromise on objectives, and then the instruments would come into the next climate communication. It's wrong, and it's very good that it's wrong, because the whole point of the climate agreement was that there was an agreement both on objectives and on instruments, and we're following up on the instruments. Firstly, we have done what I think may be one of the most important things, and which gives the greatest effect on climate, namely that Norway is exceeding its Kyoto target by 10 pst. There are real reductions, and this leads to less greenhouse gas emissions – more than we are obliged to in the Kyoto agreement. Secondly, we have increased our efforts on renewable energy, both through what we do through Enova, and now through green certificates. It can be discussed how much emission reduction it will lead to in Norway, but at least it will lead to more renewable energy, in line with the climate agreement. Thirdly, we have greatly increased investments in the railways. We're talking about almost a double since we took over, and a huge increase since the climate agreement. Fourthly, we have increased efforts in the field of climate research, significantly, also in line with the climate agreement. Fifthly, we have implemented a conversion of car charges, which means that we now have a clear decrease in CO2 emissions when it comes to the purchase of new cars. We have also introduced a directive on the use of biofuels, etc. The point of this is that the impression sought was created – namely that the previous agreement was just some goal, and then the instruments would come later – is wrong. We are working on comprehensive instruments, we are implementing comprehensive measures, and in addition, we are following up the agreement of the climate agreement on deforestation measures in developing countries and support for climate action in developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e445	I share the Prime Minister's view that there were also many instruments in the climate agreement. I probably don't share the Prime Minister's view that it's met in all degrees – at least not as far as what he's now hitting his chest with. Several points could have been rejected, for example. in the case of the research budget and climate. But what I want to ask is that for us, it is important to continue to stick to the ambitions of the climate agreement. The ambition that we should actually do the main weight of our job at home is a very important part of this climate deal, a very important part that makes the Left support it, and the Left meets a follow-up to it. My question is: is the Prime Minister standing by what was in the climate agreement? And does he have the same ambitions when he is now going to follow up the climate deal with a message, that the main weight of the cuts must be taken at home, so that we do not lag behind the international community?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e452	Firstly, I am pleased that the representative agrees with me that the climate agreement contained many instruments. I am pleased that she agrees that we are implementing at least many of the instruments. She thought we were not following up on climate research. It's wrong, we've also increased our efforts on climate research. What creates some confusion there is that there are some earmarked means, and then it's the Research Council's free resources, which are used for climate research. Overall, there is an increase in efforts also in climate research. So the instruments have been followed up. That means we've also respected and implemented what we had. Then we'll make a new message. There – just as the climate agreement states – we will carry out a review of instruments and everything to see how we can move on. Instead of being very concerned with a government that is actually following up the climate agreement, perhaps the opposition should start thinking a little bit about what their overall vision is, because now I see that the Left is opening up to be in government with parties that disagree with the climate agreement. It's a big challenge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e461	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e464	First, I would like to say that I am pleased to hear that the Prime Minister promises that the level of ambition in the climate agreement is firm. What he says is good, but the concern of the Left is the submitted state budget, where we cannot see any concrete measures that will weaken greenhouse gas emissions – on the contrary: they are increasing. To Enova, as the Prime Minister said, as far as I know, it has been announced cut. In response to questions from the Left Group, the Ministry of Finance is not able to point to a new, concrete action in the 2012 budget to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but refers to old CO2 measures. So maybe the Prime Minister here and now can point to new, concrete measures in the submitted budget that reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e474	There are many measures in the budget that contribute to reducing emissions. Firstly, there will be a further more environmentally friendly arrangement of car charges, which has been a very effective and good measure to reduce CO2 emissions from new cars. Secondly, we continue a significant escalation on rail, which is an instrument for more environmentally friendly transport. Thirdly, we have facilitated increased investment in environmentally friendly technologies with different instruments. Fourthly, I would like to say that what we are doing now, both in terms of continuing to over-comply with the Kyoto agreement and in terms of tackling the deforestation of rainforest, are important measures that will lead to significant reductions in greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e482	Ketil-Solvik Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e485	I think the Prime Minister should be a little more correct in his rendering of the climate agreement, because Erik Solheim said in the newspaper last year that «the climate agreement itself does not describe the means, only the goal». So we're done with that. The oil notification submitted by the government has a track showing the expected future CO2 emissions resulting from the oil notification. A corresponding track was laid in 2007. What is alarming is that the path that the government is now presenting is 29 pst. higher than the track you had in 2007. So while the climate agreement and the climate announcement we're waiting for, saying that one should cut emissions, the government's oil report leads to an increase in emissions. Then I'll be in a hurry about who I'm going to listen to? Shall I listen to the Minister for the Environment who says that emissions are going down? Or, should we listen to the Minister of Energy who says we should pursue a policy where emissions have to rise? Was the oil notification submitted to the Minister for the Environment before being promoted?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e495	First of all, what the climate communication was: it was a communication and a compromise on both objectives and instruments. I referred to many concrete instruments. We sat and negotiated some of the tools. Whether research, rail, green certificates have increased, there are also many other measures, concrete measures and instruments in the climate agreement. That's – what we're going to say – indisputably right, because it's just checking out the climate agreement. In the case of the emission projections presented both in the national budget and in the petroleum notification, it is absolutely right that they show increased emissions. That's exactly what we call the reference path, as it's called. That's the path we have in the emissions, provided there's no further action. That is why we need to discuss several measures to further reduce emissions. Then there could be interesting discussions in many camps about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e502	Bjørn Lødemel – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e506	We see that few of the measures that were in the climate agreement have been implemented. We see that many of the low-hanging measures in Climate Change 2020 have not been implemented, and we have been confirmed that in the state budget there are few or no measures. It is very regrettable that the government in this way destroys, so that many do not take seriously the major challenges that exist when it comes to the climate. It's been four years since the climate agreement. It is two years since the climate change crisis in 2020 came, and the government's climate change report has still been postponed. In his speech at the Labour Party’s 2007 national meeting, Prime Minister Stoltenberg said: ‘The time to assess climate change measures is over. Action is urgent.’ It's been four years. Still, there are assessments, not actions, that apply. Can the Prime Minister tell what kind of information the government has received since 2007, which means that it has come to the conclusion that it is no longer urgent?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e518	The actuality description of the question is completely incorrect. This government has put in place comprehensive measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and I am thinking of both those we implement at home and those we implement outside. So for the climate, it doesn't matter whether we cut at home or out. The total emission cuts are crucial. When we overfill the Kyoto agreement by buying allowances and destroying them, there will be smaller emissions, and there will be significant reductions. Maybe that's the single measure that gives you the greatest reductions. When we aim to prevent deforestation in developing countries, which is a demanding and difficult project – we will certainly face disappointments there – it is the measure that can achieve the largest, fastest and cheapest reductions in greenhouse gas emissions, if we succeed in these forest measures. We are now also working with the United States on action, for example. in Indonesia. There are difficult measures, expensive measures, which can lead to major reductions quickly. In addition, we work on things that could take longer, for example. effort on research, railway and other things here at home.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e529	Then we go to the next main question, and it seems to be the last of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e532	The Progress Party believes it is important to pursue a responsible economic policy. At the same time, it is important to build the country, exploit the potential that exists, and increase our future ability to produce. It is, after all, our labour force that will be the main source of income, even in the future, even though oil is important today. The rule of action regulates the use of our oil wealth in Norway. Thus, through clever calculations by the Ministry of Finance – setting limits on what is responsible and what is irresponsible use of oil money – we can gamble with the oil wealth by lending to countries in the EU that are almost conceivable. We can use oil wealth to buy hand-made goods abroad, but building roads in Norway can be irresponsible, unless the Ministry of Finance says it's okay – and despite the fact that there are many good, socially profitable road projects that can be realized. The argument for the rule of action is to avoid overheating in the Norwegian economy. I agree with that – it is important. At the same time, when we look back at the last few years, we see that when Statkraft gets 14 billion. NOK in equity, the rule of action doesn't mean anything, but we had given 14 billion. In the case of subsidies for State power's projects instead, the rule of action would say that it was irresponsible. When Stortinget adopted oil projects for 90 billion in June this year. kr, the rule of action had no views on it. But when we are going to build roads to these facilities, it will be covered by the rule of action. When we've spent 250 billion in the last four years. kr more on Norwegian pedestal than under the Bondevik Government, the rule of action has no views on it. But when the Progress Party proposes to spend 5 billion. It is very irresponsible for roads and railways in Norway. This is not related. It is not that one penny spent on the road produces inflation, while one penny spent on windmills or oil platforms does not cause inflation. Will the Prime Minister follow the advice of his Minister for Transport and take a discussion on the content of the rule of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e545	We have had good and useful discussions about the rule of action, both in the government and in the Stortinget, over several years. It is always instructive and interesting to carry out these kinds of discussions. It has not changed my conclusions, but it has created interesting debates. It is nothing new that the Central Party believes that we should have another way of budgeting road appropriations. It was said by the Centre Party in 2005, and they thought so in 2009, but both times the government has come to a different conclusion. This is the case in a tripartite government – that we sometimes have to find solutions that do not all the parties fully agree with – and so it has been in this case as well. It's an honest thing that the Center Party says what they say, and argues for it. So to the matter itself. The challenge in Norway is the total use of money. If the total use of money becomes too high, we can increase interest rates, problems in industry and in Norwegian business. On the other hand, if it's too low money usage, we can get increased unemployment. Therefore, we must have the ability to spend a lot of money in bad times and to keep something back on money in good times. That's what we're using the state budget for. Then it's absolutely right that it doesn't matter whether we invest in one or the other. Therefore, it is also wrong to say that we do not take oil investments into account. If there are large oil investments, large private investments, there is less room for public investment. The whole point is that we are going to use the public budgets to balance the fluctuations in the private economy. It's not that it'll be easier to do it if we take out the road investments, because then what we have left to regulate the economy, health, kindergartens and school. It will be even harder to pursue short-term policies if we cannot also use transport investments, which we used in a very constructive way when we had a financial crisis in 2008 and 2009, and had strong increases in, among others. road investment. Another aspect of comparing road and oil and gas is that oil and gas are extremely profitable. It's not all road projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e556	I agree that we should not build all the roads just to change the money, but we should continue to give priority. There are many good, profitable projects that are not realized, but of course it is the total use of money that applies. But let's look at 2011. It's invested in 110 billion in the year. kr more on the Norwegian pedestal than the average when the Bondevik government ruled. At the same time, 350 billion is used. kr more on the expenditure side of the State budget. So that's 460 billion. kr more into the Norwegian economy in just seven years. That's a pretty formidable thing. If the Progress Party had proposed something close to half of it in 2005, we would have been defined as irresponsible. But it shows that the carrying capacity of the Norwegian economy is present. At the same time, the 2005 oil fund amounted to 1 244 billion. kr – today it is 3,685 br. kr. If you had used 5 billion. kr more a year to build a road, the oil fund had been only 3 650 billion. kr. I think that was still enough for pensions, and we had a more efficient business life on the roads. Will one take the debate again, or will one reject it immediately?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e565	Firstly, this government has greatly increased its appropriations. We're going to keep doing that. That's why roads are now being built in large moons all over the country. Secondly, the numbers with which the representative operates – what we're going to say – I think is at least a slightly strange way to set up numbers. Among other things, I think 300 billion. the kr is the nominal figure and not corrected for price increases. If you're correcting for price rise, it's about half, that's 160. But it's not the most important thing. The important thing is that those numbers show that this government spends a lot of money, and that's for me – it's great fun to spend money for a lot of good purposes. But what I'm saying is that if you're going to spend a lot of money, like this government does, whether it's on health, on roads or at school, you have to make sure you don't spend too much money. It's much easier to get an overview of how much money you spend, if you have it on the state budget – than if you don't have it on the state budget. A reason, for example: Greece has the problems they now have, or that the United Kingdom has the budget deficits they now have, is that they have eased things out of the budget, just to try not to make very difficult choices between different good purposes. Then you get problems, because then you hide the real use of money from yourself – and then you just wonder.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e574	In fact, only two follow-up questions have been asked – first Arve Kambe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e577	The right-hand side actually agrees with the Center Party that the government spends too little money on the way, on the middle. This is why the Right also comes in the budget of the year with a billion increase in road construction, maintenance and several middle parts. The Prime Minister could have let go of the road revolt that is now coming internally into the government of the Central Party, if he had adhered to the intentions of the rule of action, which he boasts of. It says that oil money should be used primarily for growth promotion activities, such as education, research, transport and taxation. In practice, this has only happened in the alternative state budgets of Højre. The government is also unable to comply with its own national transport plan in 2012. Would the Prime Minister have avoided the debate on the use of oil money that has occurred in the government today if he had avoided new forms of financing for the road, new alternative forms of ownership of the acts of commerce and kept to the intention of the rule of action on more money?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e586	Firstly, we follow the rule of action in the Norwegian economy, in the interests of Norwegian jobs – not least private competitive jobs. The rule of action makes it possible to use a lot of oil money. We spend a lot of oil money, but not too much – we are responsible. The second is that it is the total use of money that is crucial for the Norwegian economy, and it is no less that we are trying to hide some of the money through other ways of spending it. It's the total use of money that decides. Then it should be in the budget, so that we get the best possible overview and make real political choices. Thirdly, I would like to say that it is always nice to hear a right complaint that the government spends too little money on the way. The previous government put forward a very relaxed road map and couldn't reach the targets. They did not achieve their own objectives in the transport plan. The new government presented very ambitious goals. You said we wouldn't make it, but we've reached them. You left the list low and scratched. We made the list high and skipped. Then at least you have to be a little humiliated in the criticism of us – when we swing over fine road lifts. [[Laughter]] So that's how we're going to present a new national transport plan. I don't want to be surprised that there's going to be even more money there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e597	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e601	I believe the Prime Minister knows very well that the Bondevik government presented the Sem statements. They met all the targets for road and rail, which they just presented in the Sem statement. What's hard to see today is the red line with the Prime Minister. He has talked about the need for reorganization and conversion, but that does not apply to the road and rail sectors, where Liv Signe Navarsete just takes up the need for innovation in a sector that is organised in exactly the same way as in the 1960s. The Bondevik administration carried out a reorganization in Avinor that has been shown to be exceptional success. The Stoltenberg government has not chosen to reverse that conversion. Why doesn't the government just look at the Avinor model, and do the same for road and path, when the need is so great?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e608	Point 1: the previous government did not follow its own national transport plan. Point 2: I am in favour of migration also in the transport sector. But, to say it like that, I'm too good for conversion, but against bad conversion. It's not all the transition that's good. There may be wise things we can do differently in the future in the field of transportation, and I would like to welcome a debate on it. But if conversion means that we're trying to hide the expenses, it's a bad transition. It's the total use of money that decides, not how we spend it. Point 3: If Norway starts to finance road projects, we've arranged very foolishly. Our problem is not that we have too little money, our problem is the total use of money and possibly pressure on the interest rate. We don't have to buy roads on payment, we can give them cash. That's what this government has done, and we're going to continue to do -- to a much greater extent than the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e617	This concludes where we started today's oral Question Time, with questions from the representative Siv Jensen. Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e622	Now it's like the transition doesn't give any more way – investment gives more way. It is essentially about – whether the government is willing to view road construction as an investment, not as a cost that has been lost forever. When I've heard Liv Signe Navarsette today, she has heard like an echo of me and the Advance Party. The problem is that once the Progress Party has repeatedly said that it is possible to think differently about the rule of action and investment in oil money, the Prime Minister has called it irresponsible. When Liv Signe Navarsete is so clear today that this is a necessary debate to take, this is a necessary change to make in the state budget and in the view of investment in infrastructure, is my simple question to the Prime Minister: does the Prime Minister think that his Council of Ministers is irresponsible, or is he interested in taking that debate on a little new premises?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e629	Councillor Navarsete is not irresponsible. She is in a government following the rules of action and respecting the budgetary rules adopted by the Storting. When the Stortinget adopted them in 2005, both the Central Party and the Advance Party were against it, but the government follows the budgetary rules that the Stortinget has adopted – which I believe are very good and safe – and which make it possible to invest in the way. So this government is investing a lot more money than it's done before. The second is that we also invest in things other than the way. For example, investing in hospitals is important. There's going to be more money. We invest in knowledge, research and school – it's investing for the future. Although educating children is expenditureed as operating costs, there is, to a large extent, investment for the future. I think we have to stop making this a discussion about budgetary matters, but accept that there is a discussion about politics – how we should make political choices. Either we invest in knowledge, which is spent on operating, or we invest on the way, which is spent on investing, it's about how much money we spend on different good purposes. This government is too much money for many good purposes, but not too much!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e636	So the oral questioning process is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e648	There will be a change in the questionnaire, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendment to today’s Question Time is proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The change was as follows: Question 6, from the representative of Mr Träldal to the Minister of Justice, will be answered by the Minister of Renewal, Administration and Church on behalf of the Minister of Justice, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e661	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: «The technical and general vocational training system, TAF, has proved to be a very successful system in which students can combine vocational training and subjects that provide study competence. It has now become known that the Education Directorate will change the scheme, making it more similar to today's apprenticeship system. These changes are justified by the fact that certificates from secondary education do not allow evidence of the student’s full competence. What is the problem of creating an adapted diploma for the TAF, and is the Council of State behind the initiation, in reality, of the closure of the TAF system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e675	I am very happy to have this question, because I see that there is a discussion, especially in More and Romesdal, about whether the TAF system will continue to exist. My whole starting point for the discussion about TAF is that this is very successful, and that we want to find a form of how this can be carried on. So TAF is an opportunity to combine vocational training with getting a student score, and it has proved to be very successful in many places. That's why the starting point for the question is completely wrong, it's the opposite. It is such that the Ministry of Knowledge has taken the initiative to clarify the framework for the continuation of the offer. I also briefed the representative Henning Warloe on this in the Questionnaire exactly a year ago. I am familiar with the many messages the department has received, about how successful the TAF has been in the states that have had the offer. It suggests that this is a system that we're going to continue, and that the states should have the opportunity to facilitate. That is why we have started working on how to secure the TAF offer for the future. There are several reasons why there is now a need to clarify the framework to be drawn for continuing TAF operations: one is that the integrated training of full vocational training and study competence over four years is locally developed, without being part of the official structure of secondary education. Now, half of the county councils offer different trade-variants of TAF and different ways to organise the offers. At some points, part of the offers is not in line with the framework for the professional and hourly distribution in upper secondary education. It has also been necessary to grant a derogation in order to obtain valid diplomas for completion of secondary education through a TAF scheme. During the winter of 2010/2011, representatives of the Department and the Directorate discussed different ways of continuing TAF with representatives of the TAF schools and the TAF school owners as well as the organisations engaged by TAF. This resulted in the Ministry issuing in May this year a proposal for a framework for future TAF training and asking for views on them. All counties, county councils and various social organisations were asked to give feedback on the proposals. The frameworks sent out were designed in such a way that neither legislative nor regulatory changes are necessary to implement them. The main points of the proposal were that the training should continue to lead to both full professional competence and study competence, but that the county councils themselves choose whether to aim for general study competence or further deepening in certain fields of study competence as well as vocational training. The current premise that the individual offer must be based on and implemented in a voluntary, close and committed cooperation between the county council and the apprentices concerned was further proposed. We have now received many consultation opinions on this, and we are considering the points of view that have come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e696	I believe that the Minister of Knowledge has a major educational challenge if one believes that something has been sent out to help clarify the framework. Those who sit out there clearly see this as an attack on the entire system, and that it is, in reality, in danger of being abandoned as it has been established, and it has been a success for many years. When the Council of State says that this is perceived as a problem in More and Romesdal, there is a truth to modification, because not only the county councils have reacted, it also has the NHO. It is also quite shaken that the Cooperation Council for Vocational Training has not been consulted on the matter, has not been included on advice on how to do this in the future. I wonder how it is possible that the matter has come so crooked from the hope that it is perceived out there that the scheme is now being terminated. So the Council of State is standing here and saying that the purpose of the hearing is the exact opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e703	I would like to send a copy of the letter that has expired to the representative Elisabeth Aspaker. There she can see that we have outlined some suggestions for how to proceed with the TAF, and asked for views on them. So far we have received 22 hearing opinions. 16 of them, that's 16 of them. 75 p.m., endorses the proposals available. This means that if there are now some people who are concerned about TAF and have views on the proposals that have been sent to the hearing, on which we would like to have views – that is why they have been sent out – they must send these opinions to us. We're responsive. We seams even the media to get them, in case there's someone who falls for the temptation to race in the media instead of sending us opinions, when they have that opportunity. If there are any concerns out there that have not yet been raised, I would like to invite them to arrange for these to be communicated, even if they have not kept the consultation period. It was suspended until the end of August. We're concerned about finding a form of TAF that means that this can be continued, because there's been a small hybrid in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e708	I am, to this extent, somewhat reassured by the answer that the Council of State is now giving. But until the last state council said, about a hybrid in the system: we don't have to be so systemically absorbed that not hybrids that prove successful, and as great successes, can also find a place in the system. You have to be able to do it in such a way that you don't sit out and make special rules and adjustments. Finally, I have a specific question for the Council of State: will the Council of State convene the Cooperation Council for Vocational Training and help to get through this matter, and that those who wear the shoes and who are satisfied with this system today can actually also be consulted before the Department draws its final conclusions? I have also had meetings, including: with the NHO, which is not at all sure that what has been sent to the hearing will mean maintaining the TAF scheme in its present form.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e717	If the NHO is concerned about that – it is, of course, their freedom to have conversations with the representative of Aspaker – they should also contact me about it. SRY is a very important cooperation body for us. This, of course, is also a theme there. But the intention of what we now want to achieve is what form the TAF is going to take permanently in the future, because it has just been a school team that has combined both the preparatory and professional subjects. There's no need to put any kind of question mark. I am amazed that such a misunderstanding can arise when it is the opposite that is the case, and when we have sent out a sketch on how it can be done, and asked for feedback. To all those who are concerned about this: Give the feedback! We're concerned that we're going to be able to get this form of school to go on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e728	I have the following questions: «On behalf of the Ministry of Transport, the road authorities of the Member States have launched the project «Free E39», a project to develop technology and to find social effects by making the E39 free of ferries. The financial framework for this work/project is not known. Other sub-projects on the route are also under way. To what extent is progress affected on these sub-projects and when is the project ‘Free E39’ planned to be completed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e737	The Ministry of Transport has commissioned the State Road Administration to address the potential of a free E39 for business and bus and work regions. The project shall assess technological solutions for fjord intersections and how the structures can possibly be exploited to generate energy from waves, currents and winds. Implementation and contract strategies shall also be implemented in the project. It is thus a comprehensive work on four sub-projects to be carried out. Some of the subprojects are in progress, while others are in the start-up phase. A concrete progress plan is being developed by the state road system. It is currently difficult to say concretely when the entire project «Free E39» is completed. The progress of the sub-projects on technological solutions and societal impacts is most critical for the purpose of the conceptual exchange of data across the E39 and the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. The State Road Service has the ambition to have these sub-projects progressed to enable the Free E39 project to become a basis for both the concept choices in ongoing KVU/KS1 work along the E39 and for the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. Of course, the greatest uncertainty has been attached to the progress of the sub-projects containing frontier-breaking technology solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e744	I thank you for your answer. This is a so-called technology and social development project, as the Council of State says, and it concerns the whole stretch from Kristiansand to Trondheim, with eight more or less demanding fjord crosses. It is of course an exciting matter, and a horizon that has been mentioned for this work has been 2040. But then it's also that many of these fjord crossings are already more or less clear. Two of them are Rogfast in Rogaland and Hordfast in Hordaland. In the past, the Council of State has decided that these two projects will be included in the next NTP rolling. That's good. The question many people are asking is whether this drive depends on whether you choose to bet on new and untapped solutions in these two projects, for which this concept selection study opens up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e751	It is the right of the representative Halleraker to say that the problem was linked to the Ferjefri project and KVU E39 Aksdal–Bergen could be the same on other sections of the E39, to a greater or lesser extent. So it has never been thought that the entire distribution should be completed in the summer of 2012, but it has been – and is – an ambition to have results that relate to costs and ability to carry out in the summer of 2012. The Directorate of Roads says that there is an uncertain link to progress. The free project has not been changed in relation to what is in the KVU, but it is an uncertain project. A progress plan is being worked on. It implies that this is something that we have the opportunity to come back to before summer 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e758	I thank you again for the answer. To narrow down the focus area a little bit: for the fjord crossing between Stord and Bergen, two alternatives, one middle and one inner line, where the middle one has part of these new frontier bursting solutions in itself. Hordaland County Councils have recently adopted a consultation decision in which they are open to both solutions, but as a clear condition it is both economically and technologically soluble and realistic and can be completed by 2021. The question is then: does the Council of State consider this to be realistic, if you choose to go for the more uncertain technological solutions in option four?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e767	It is such that the KVU Aksdal–Bergen is out to listen no, with a deadline of 1 November. That means it's these days that the hearing statements come in. Then they're going to work on it. Let me on the one hand not advance what I'm saying now is a run for the progress of the entire Ferry Free project. But let me also underline, as I also said in Question Time two weeks ago: it is my goal that the KVU Aksdal–Bergen should be included in the forthcoming national transport plan. Here, there is great disgust both on the rogalands side and on the hordes side, getting it more holiday-free over the two sections that apply to Stavanger–Bergen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e778	«Inside. S. No 240 for 2008-2009 asked a unanimous increase of the government to strengthen the midwife service in municipalities both in terms of capacity and quality. However, midwives are still lacking in many municipalities, and development is even in the wrong direction. According to the SSB, there has been a decrease in the number of annual works for midwives from 2009 to 2010. It's very worrying. What will the Council of State do now to ensure a good and safe midwife service for all pregnant and pregnant women who wish to do so?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e785	The statistical central agency has changed the way in which the number of midwifery works is counted. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has dealt with the official new statistics of the SSB in the 2012 State Budget. However, the SSB discloses that they have also made records in the same way as before. This shows that there has not been a decrease, but an increase of two annual works from 2009 to 2010. The Ministry of Health and Welfare has been following developments in the municipal earthworm service for many years and mentioned it in the State budget. Annual statistics are an important indicator of capacity in the service, so it is regrettable that we cannot compare directly before and after 2010. The reason why the SSB has changed the collection basis is that they will establish better and more reliable statistics. However, I agree with the representative that developments in recent years have been weaker than they wanted. From 1995 to 2009, the number of nurseries in municipalities increased from 176 to 295. Around half of this increase took place in the first three years. From 2008 to 2009, there was no change in the number of nurseries. We also know that many job vacancies are small, with an average of 0.6 midwifery jobs per municipality. This is not satisfactory. We know that more and more pregnant women are asking for midwives in maternity care, and that previous discharges from birth institutions increase the need for follow-up where mother and children live. I'm busy doing something about this. As indicated in the Storing Communication on maternity care, the Committee’s recommendation for this and the Health Directorate’s Development Strategy for midwifery services, it is important to provide coherent services to ensure safety and predictability in the provision of services to pregnant, birthing and maternity/newly-baked families. As I explained earlier this year in connection with the examination of Document No. 8:12 for 2010–2011 on measures to strengthen the community midwifery service, several courses have been launched that are relevant to this service. I hope that these actions together will contribute to strengthening the midwifery service and provide a good offer to pregnant, birthing and newly-baked families.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e802	Thanks for the answer. I think there's a pretty big gap between what the council describes, and what's perceived among those who work in the municipalities. They clearly show that the situation is getting worse. There has been no strengthening of the midwife service in terms of neither quality nor capacity in the municipalities in recent years, despite the fact that the Stortinge has decided to do so. It's true, as the Council of State says, that there are very small job fractions – they're actually all the way down to 10 pst. in some municipalities. After all, there are no midwives moving from one place in the country to another to get a 10 pst position. So there's a lot of work to do here. An increase of two annual works, which is apparent from the start of the SSB counting differently, is a gap in what the trade union, the Norwegian midwife association, experiences. It's not very impressive either. So the question is, what does the Council of State think is the reason?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e811	I fully agree that two years' work across the country is not much. We want a stronger midwife service in the municipalities, not least because many people want to get home from the maternity ward or clinic, and therefore midwife also needs to be in the community. I would like to refer to what I said also during the examination of Document No. The 8-proposal, that we have commissioned the RHFs and the municipalities concerned to cooperate on the plans for maternity, maternity and maternity care in the region. We will continue to work to facilitate major job breaks. This can be done in cooperation with the hospitals. In the new legislation, there is a legal requirement for an agreement between municipalities and health companies. As a minimum, they shall also include agreements on midwifery services and cooperation on prevention.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e818	I know that there is a lot of cooperation about it going on, but there is still a lot of concern about both preparedness, follow-up and other tasks. As I said, job homes are missing – there is no prioritisation in the municipalities. On the basis of what we know will happen now from 1 January, that municipalities will also have to work with the Interaction Reform, there is a great deal of concern that the midwife service will be lowered, because they are considered to be healthy women, but that is an incredibly important prevention work. Women are also printed earlier from the maternity wards than before, so follow-up in childbirth is also possible. Time and again over the last six years, I've come back to this question, but it hasn't improved. My question is whether the Minister of Health now wants to contact the Minister of Municipal Affairs, so that they can interact to get a really good midwife service in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e825	What I think is important now is that the new legislation – the new municipal health and care service law – is implemented from 1 January 2012. In it, the requirements for this service offer are reinforced – they are. The offer shall be in the municipality. Then there are these agreements between the hospitals and the municipalities. The entire guidance material for these agreements is now available. One of the first things that have to be in place, as a minimum, is an agreement on midwife service. It actually shows that we've raised this. It is important to know in hospitals what to expect of competence in the municipality, and vice versa. So this is an important point for us, precisely because – as Sjöli says – many people want to come home earlier. We want to make it right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e834	‘In contravention of policy guidelines, there are now figures showing an increase in the number of young people with disabilities living in nursing homes and institutions reserved for the elderly. 166 people under the age of 50 experience this, an increase of 29 from 2010. What will the government do to reverse this trend?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e841	I am concerned that no young people with disabilities should live in institutions that are intended for the elderly, against their will. Young people with disabilities shall be given the opportunity to live as independent a life as possible. It is the municipality that is responsible for providing the necessary health care to the individual, and the municipalities are also free to assess how the service is to be organised. In the last ten years, institutions that have been calculated for the elderly have seen fewer young people under the age of 50. In 2010, according to the Health Directorate, 166 people under the age of 50 lived in institutions for the care and care of lucky people. This is an increase — that is correct — compared with 2009. I look seriously at this increase. Since 2005, the population has followed up this group of residents in particular. They investigate, among other things: Whether the individual user wants to move out and whether an individual plan has been created. In 2010, there were 16 people who responded that they wanted to move out, but who did not have concrete moving plans. The people follow them up in the autumn. The Executive Board shall be informed by 1 November at the latest. A contact group has been set up to monitor the situation and may propose new measures. The group consists of representatives from the Health Directorate, the KS, the Norwegian Handicap Federation, the Joint Organisation of disabled persons and the Ministry of Health and Welfare. I will follow developments closely. In my opinion, the community has a good overview of the situation. Many statesmen have the impression that municipalities in general extend far to offer a good deal to this group, but that it may be time-consuming to establish alternative housing for young people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e856	This has been a problem over time, but under the previous government a number of measures have been taken. Not least, very strong attention was given to this issue on the part of health ministers. This resulted in that at the beginning of 2006, when one had the government change, there were actually only four pieces that still lived in a nursing home, that wanted to move out, and that didn't have a date of emigration. So one has recently seen this development turn around, and one is now back on a very alarming high level. It is obvious to me that a few will reverse this development, it will require a much more concrete follow-up from the Council of State to the statesmen, so that they will once again give priority to this work and can carry out the same thing as you have done in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e861	I have the numbers from 2004 in front of me. I'm not going to repeat them, because it's really uninteresting. What's interesting is what's actually done. The community follows up each of the young users who are in hospital. Then we also need to be aware that many hospitals have now established palliative wards, how many young cancer patients in particular can be among the patients being counted. With regard to the 16 people who wanted to move out, you have a specific overview of each one, you follow up on the municipality, and as I said, there is also an external contact group that is involved in this situation. So I just want to stress that this is an area that we're occupied with, and that we obviously want to follow up, because you have to have the right to live as you want, and it has to be made right for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e868	It is quite obvious that once development has turned around, and one now has 16 people wanting another offer, there is a need to get a completely different touch on this. What we also see is that the provision of housing to this group is increasingly being characterised by being alternative institutions rather than own housing. Many call for warning that the PU reform is now in reverse, and that municipalities are building institutions similar to those one that was committed to bringing about the reform. What plans does the Minister for Health have to deal with these issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e875	In terms of the tendency for municipalities to build institutions instead of housing and housing, it is a very little desirable development, and here, in fact, I believe that municipal politicians have a great responsibility, because that was not what was meant by the reform. What I did last year was to create a book with guidance on how young people, including those with mental retardation, could organize their own homes if they wanted to. There's actually a pretty good variation and opportunity, but I think maybe these arrangements are little known. That is why I sent material to each municipality and underlined the legislation that is in proportion to the individual's ability to obtain an owner-occupied dwelling.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e884	‘How has the development in the use of PET scans in Norway been since 2009 and is the level so far in 2011 in line with developments in the National Council for Quality and Priorities in 2009?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e889	There were three PET-CT scanners in use in Norway in 2009, in addition to the fact that Health Nord RHF at the University Hospital in North Norway had an agreement on the purchase of mobile PET studies from Finland. From 2011, there are five PET-CT scanners in use in Norway, including one at the Aleris private hospital in Oslo. In Tromsø there is still a lease agreement with mobile PET scanners from Finland. In 2009, 3900 PET studies were carried out in Norway. According to Health Directorate, 2011 estimates are 4 200 surveys. An increase is expected in 2012. The Health Directorate estimates that with full use of today's machines, 6 500 studies per year can be made, including a certain increase in purchases for the University Clinic Nord-Norway in Tromsø, until they get their own PET-CT scanner in place, which will further increase capacity. The main reason for the restriction of the use of machinery is the lack of competence in key personnel groups such as specialists in radiophysics, nuclear medicine and radiology. Hospitals must provide adequate staff training to make good use of the equipment. I have asked the Health Directorate to evaluate which patient groups should be offered today with PET-CT, and what capacity is needed. If such an assessment shows that capacity is too small today, I would ask regional health companies to increase their capacity. They can then choose whether to increase their own capacity or to use the free capacity of private individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e902	What is clear is that if one looks at and compares the guidelines in Norway with guidelines internationally, there are significantly fewer guidelines in Norway that are linked to the recommendation to use the PET-CT scan. If you listen to what the cancer doctors in Norway say, there are 30 cancer patients every day who should have had an offer for a PET-CT scan that does not. At the same time, there is considerable available capacity both on the public PET-CT scanners and on the one private PET-CT scanner. However, what prevents their use is that references to their use are very often rejected by reference to the lack of capacity. That's not the case, as long as those who operate these PET-CT scanners say they have the ability to use the capacity they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e907	Just because guidelines are needed for which patients and patient groups should receive a PET-CT study, we have asked the Health Directorate to review it and provide guidance for it. So I would say – as I said in my first post as well – that the limitation is very much on competence. It has to be increased, and here it's not just about doctors, here it's about a lot of other people. In addition, I would like to say that, after what we can see, we are at about the same level as Sweden and as other European countries. Denmark is high, but believes that they may have too many PET-CT scanners. But here we are following developments carefully, because it's clear that it can provide valuable studies, and it's important for those patients who need the special study, that they get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e912	The Health Minister repeats that there is a lack of capacity that is why patients do not receive this offer. This is not the case as long as those who operate these PET-CT scanners say they have more capacity and have the ability to use the capacity. So what will the Minister of Health do — if she thinks, as she now said, that lack of capacity is a cause — to ensure that the available capacity is, for example, on Aleris, is being exploited to the benefit of those patients who actually need this, and that doctors who refer to the PET-CT scan do not experience what they experience today, namely that they are both being professionally tested and being rejected, but that the capacity that is is actually being exploited, so that Norwegian cancer patients get a diagnosis – in line with what they get in other countries?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e919	I want to repeat once again that there is not necessarily a capacity limitation, that is usually a limitation of competence. So it's kind of going to give you a total capacity constraint. That's exactly why the Health Directorate, when they make their assessment, has to assess whether there are several patients who should have this. Do we then have to expand the capacity of the public, or are we going to add up to use the private capacity that is? Because it is quite clear that the objective is that patients and patient groups who benefit from this type of study should receive it. We must not create the impression that we have poor surveys in Norway. We don't. But it's very important that the patients who benefit from this study actually get it, and that it helps in their treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e926	Then we proceed to question 6, from the representative of Torgeir Tåldal to the Minister of Justice. The question will be answered by the Minister for Renewal, Administration and Church Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e933	‘There is today a delay in completing compulsory training in the fire service, taking into account that both part-time and full-time staff have not received the necessary training. What is the strategy of the Council of State for all part-time and full-time fire service personnel to have their compulsory training carried out?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e940	The regulation of 26 June 2002 on the organisation and dimensioning of the fire service shall ensure that the fire service is organised, equipped and manned in such a way that statutory tasks are properly carried out. In Norway, fire services are a municipal task. The Government is committed to ensuring that part-time fire workers receive their compulsory training before the expiry of the transitional arrangements laid down in the regulation. The total need for fire training was mentioned in St.meld. No 35 for 2008-2009. On 17 December 2010, in the light of the appointment of the Government, a sample shall, by January 2012, address to both full-time and part-time employees the overall training needs of the fire service. It would be appropriate to consider this investigation in the evaluation of further measures relating to fire training. The mandate of the panel states that a review of future training needs needs needs needs to be highlighted in light of current and future challenges in fire services, both in the prevention and preparedness fields. The selection has been asked to describe the strengths and weaknesses of today’s educational provision and to make a recommendation on the elements to be passed on and where changes are needed, in the light of the competence challenges facing the fire service today and will be able to face in the future. The selection has also been asked to assess whether increased intercommunal fire cooperation could enhance the competence of the part-time fire service. I therefore believe that it is most appropriate to await further action in connection with the training of the full-time and part-time fire service of the Fire Education Committee. Whereas it may be necessary to extend the transitional arrangements for part-time staff, but where appropriate such a decision must be taken after receipt of the report of the Fire Education Committee by the Department; There will then be a better basis for giving details of how fire training should be organised in the future. The transitional arrangement expires on 31 December 2012. As the sample provides its report nearly one year in advance, i.e. on 31 January 2012, I believe that this is a sound strategy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e959	I record that the government has not been able to improve any of the things that have been up in the past. I asked the State Council of Storberget a question on 26 May 2011 when we had an interview about what they were going to do, and then Storberget said that he saw the need for increased educational capacity and the need for more competence. It was in May. Today we are told to look at the new arrangements. Today, there are 5,000 part-time workers who have not received their education. This has a major impact on the whole of Norway and especially on the districts. Large cities like Oslo, Bergen and Trondheim have no problems, there are fire constables around the districts throughout Norway that get problems. My question will then be: When it comes to introducing this on 31 December 2012, how are you going to be able to train 5,000 part-time workers in less than one year?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e968	It is true that there have been some queues to implement the necessary training measures. Therefore, some re-priorities have been made by taking some courses that a full-time employee should have, and using them for the benefit of part-time employees. So I believe there's been a grip as there's been a sample that's going to go through the whole educational situation for fire workers, where we're looking at both full-time and part-time employees. I am absolutely sure that the sample will provide good advice that will be possible to take over, even before the regulation expires on December 31, 2012, so that those who need training actually get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e975	The answer given by the Council of State is, of course, what's right: she says that you've actually taken capacity from a full-time employee, which now makes it just about 40 pst. of full-time personnel in need of education who receive it. So here you move a problem instead of giving money. What you have to do here is give money. So if you want to train the 5,000 part-time teams, you have to have about one. 300 courses, and it will cost approx. 50-60 million. kr, which may have to be taken over two, three, four years. If necessary, the Council of State will have to find out. After 22 July, there were, among other things, The Prime Minister and the Minister spoke very well about the fire and rescue situation, that it had to be strengthened throughout Norway. We saw the amazing job of all the rescue teams, including in the fire and rescue department, in Utøya and Oslo, and how dependent they are. So my question remains: is it now that the part-time teams are sacrificed for the full-time teams?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e986	No, as I said in my answer, it is therefore a priority capacity for part-time firefighters to receive education. Then I fully agree with the representative, Tjäldal, that there were many in the fire and rescue department, as in many other important parts of our emergency system, which did a great job after July 22. It is important that those who work with fire and rescue have good knowledge. That's why we've taken it very seriously and we want to go through the entire education cycle to see if we've arranged that education in the best possible way. That report will be given to the Minister of Justice in three months, and I am sure that the Minister of Justice will take the matter seriously and do the necessary arrangements after that report has been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e997	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘There is so much talk about the reduction of cultivated land, but very little about new cultivation. Norway has large areas of good soil that could benefit from cultivation, e.g. in Hedmark County. Why does the Council of States not facilitate this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1006	I would first like to stress that I am very concerned about limiting the degradation of the cultivated soil we have today. Rural agricultural land is lost for food production forever. It is therefore particularly important to avoid degradation in the areas where we have the best soil and the best growth conditions. Areas under cultivation are rarely of similar quality. This really says itself. If these areas were as good as what is actually cultivated area today, these areas would also have been cultivated by our ancestors. But, as I said, there is no rule without exception. Of course, there are potentially arable areas that have a high quality soil. So this is the exception and not the rule. I am therefore proud that the red-green government has contributed to a reduction in agricultural land degradation in recent years. In this way, we contribute to preserving the production potential for the future. So for new cultivation. The government stimulates innovation. At present, new cultivation can be spent in its entirety on the year in which it is carried out, even if the value of new cultivation spreads over many years to come. So this gives a significant tax gain to the newly cultivated person. Furthermore, any approved newly cultivated area will receive a land and cultural landscape grant, thus increasing the income of the farmer. The innovation has also been increasing since the red-green government came to power. New cultivation was down to 7,300 dean in 2002, while last year it was a total of 20,000 dean. Hedmark is one of the most newly cultivated counties. This shows that we have managed to create confidence in the future in the industry by arranging for a better economy in general. Agricultural balances have provided the basis for an income increase of about 70 p.m., or around 110 000 kr per year from 2006 to 2011 with the forecast basis of the negotiations in 2011. Such a development gives hope to the future. The increase in new cultivation is a good indicator of policy effectiveness, and in this way we will facilitate increased food production in the future as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1017	I thank the Council of State for a good summary, but it really didn't give any special answer to what I'm asking. I lack motivation – I need the Council of State to travel around and motivate people to grow up. Obviously, a lot has happened in recent years. The councils mentioned all our ancestors and how they did it – that they have cultivated the best soil. I still believe that there is a lot of good soil that can be cultivated, and we have completely different machines now than we had before. We have fertiliser plans, we have ditch plans – we have a lot of plans that provide opportunities to make the soil that can be cultivated more efficient than it is today. Clearly, some soil is being degraded. But that's how society is today. There's a lot of other things in society that need those areas. That is why we must encourage more innovation. Of course, before we knew about the bumper switch. There are completely different ways of growing soils now than using a bumper switch.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1022	Despite technological development and nutrient availability, it is important to take into account that the reality of fertile and less fertile soils has not changed. What has not already been cultivated does not have the same property, the same potential, as the area that has been cultivated. The climate is also important here. Of course, it is an important reserve, but that is why priority No. one to reduce the take-off or re-disposal of cultivated land, so that we can keep the best soil. Then I agree with the representative Bredvold that it is important to stimulate innovation where you need more land. In many areas this is the case, and in many areas there are also good areas. It's one thing that we work with all the time. At the same time, it is not least an interest for the individual farmer. He is self-employed and knows his own needs. This must be the basis for further development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1029	I thank the Council once again for the answer. As the situation is today, we've never had as few farms as we have, we've never had as few farmers as we have, and we've never had as little land to grow as we have. At the same time, food production is roughly at the level we've had for many years. It shows that we've got more efficient agriculture, even though there are fewer farmers doing the job. I believe that the farmers can do an even better job with better opportunities. I wish that, among other things: shall be more rapid and easier to obtain a yes. In my neighbouring municipality, Våler in Solør, 6 000 targets are to be cultivated. It's great, and it's good, productive food soil. But it takes so long, and so is it for many others, also potential farmers who might think of growing up. It'll take too long. It's a big bureaucracy. There are a lot of people who need to be on a hearing board, and the time is running out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1034	That's right. Time goes by, and there's time for the Council of State Brerk to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1037	I don't know this single thing as the representative of Bredvold here mentions as an example. I know, however, that there is a large new cultivation programme in Hedmark, and in the municipality of Våler you have been active in this context. To the extent that innovation is stopped by late municipal proceedings, I am very concerned to follow up the initiative of the representative of Bredvold to work on reducing this processing time, to get effective proceedings to ensure that the farmer – the incubator – can have the plough set in the soil and, as soon as possible, clear the soil and thus prepare it for food production. I fully support that intention, so I'll do the best I can to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1046	I would like to ask the Minister for Renewal a question: «After a short count, 12 out of 18 municipalities in Østfold have Sunday open shops. A total of 18 shops are open on Sundays. New applicants for Sunday open shops are discriminated against within the same municipality, not because the municipality says no, but because the county review legally adopted democratic decisions. When will the Council of State ensure that traders are not discriminated against and given the same opportunity as others — especially in the summer months?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1055	There are several reasons why we still want to have limits to commercial activity on Sundays. Sunday should be a different day that differs from the other days of the week. The attention of workers in the trade in goods is also important. The provisions of the Holiday Peace Act are not justified primarily in the interests of the operators. The general rule of the Holiday Peace Act is that the shops should have closed on Sundays. However, in order to meet fully practical needs, there are a number of exceptions from this point of view. The derogations have been accepted for the benefit of consumers. One of the exceptions allows the county to decide by regulation that an area is to be regarded as a typical tourist destination. This means that on-site shops can stay open even on Sundays all or part of the year — preferably in the summer, if that is the most topical. The first condition is that the municipality recommends this in an application to the county council. In addition, the law requires that the sale in the area is mainly to tourists. In addition, it is up to the county council to decide whether an application should be granted. A specific assessment must be made on a case-by-case basis, involving the withdrawal of all relevant interests. Another exception applies to points of sale which essentially sell kiosk or groceries and which have a total sales surface not exceeding 100 m2, cf. § 5, second paragraph, No. 1st@item: inlistbox A number of grocery stores that meet the area requirement are open on Sundays. I assume that the county will make a specific assessment on a case-by-case basis when the municipality is promoting an application for a regulation that an area should be considered as a typical tourist destination. I do not have any indications that the county manager is different from sole proprietor. I'm following the practice of the statesmen, and I can't see that Eastfold stands out in typical tourist resorts. In Eastfold, there are four typical tourist resorts. This concerns the town of Båstad in Trøgstad municipality, a demarcated area in the municipality of Marker, the Old Town in Fredrikstad and the municipality of Håler. In my view, it is not appropriate to allow the municipalities themselves to grant exemptions from the Holiday Peace Act. The powers of the county councils in this area can contribute to a consistent practice. If the authority were added to the municipalities, this could lead to a breach of protection on Sunday, which I think many do not want.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1071	Thanks for the answer. I am not sure that the Council of State closely follows developments in my county, Eastfold, and I think it may be necessary for the Council of State to take a trip and look at the 12 out of 18 municipalities with a whole 18 shops that are Sunday open, and that have Sunday open shops not only linked to the area that the Council of State mentions, and not just linked to the obvious four places that probably very many in Eastfold would be typical tourist resorts, but not necessarily all four. The situation now is that the Kiwi store in Saltnes, which is a typical tourist resort, and which wants a Sunday soap shop for two and a half to three months, does not get it, despite the fact that the municipality and local government unanimously recommended it, and despite the fact that the county council actually recognizes that this is a typical tourist destination. We can go to the municipality by municipality. There are differences in treatment within the municipality and between municipalities, and several tourist sites are relevant to that definition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1080	There are two applications for regulations in Eastfold County which have been rejected by the County State, so not all the municipalities affected here can be considered, because in only two cases there have been rejected legislative proposals from the local government sector. So it's absolutely right that there might be differences, because some shops then stay within the 100 m2 limit that's established. There is quite a legal adaptation by some shops, and this may mean that there will be a difference between some shops within the municipality, because the area requirements will then be met by some but not by others. But it's not true that there are many municipalities that have been rejected for typical tourist sites. Like I said, it's just two.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1090	I didn't say that either. I have said that there are 18 Sunday open shops divided into 12 municipalities. I think the definition of typical tourist places needs to be reviewed. I also know that the county council in Eastfold dealt with the two relevant applications from Joker Ullerøy, the municipality of Sarpsborg, had a unanimous city council that recommended this. It's a typical tourist resort with 300 households and 850 inhabitants, where you're totally dependent on having a Sunday-open shop to be able to carry the offer that this store represents. Three days' earnings in July is the same as earnings in January. In the council, it was also recommended to have open - for - Sunday shops. The county realizes that this is a typical tourist destination. So the challenge is well that we're not going to have a private-practitioner politician as a county councilman, but one who follows the law and the exceptions that apply there, who recognizes it at the same time, and who actually gives business the opportunity to keep Sunday open. I fully agree with the Council of State that Sunday is special, but I also see that there are some exceptions in the law that should be allowed to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1101	As I said, I have no reason to believe that the state of Eastfold is discriminated against by some municipalities. There are strict requirements in the setup for how to define a tourist site. A substantial part of the turnover must come from tourists, and I see no reason to doubt that the assessments made by the county council in Eastfold are correct under the law. If you actually want a change in this area, it is quite possible to change the Holiday Peace Act or to amend the Working Environment Act. Then you could have a completely open approach. That is not the position of this government. I think it is important for us that we insist that Sunday should be a different day, and then there must be some rules that apply. I think it is appropriate that it is the county that decides the kind of cases, so that the same cases can be considered equally in the individual counties, and not leave it up to the individual municipality to make those decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1112	I have the following questions for the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘The EEA Surveillance Authority, ESA, does not accept the Norwegian implementation of the EU Port Security Directive. The Directive affects around 600 Norwegian ports. What consequences and costs can this have for Norwegian ports, and what does the government intend to do to avoid the closure of a number of Norwegian ports if no Norwegian adaptations are put in place?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1121	Maritime transport is important for Norwegian exports and imports of goods, and the government is therefore working to ensure that transport on the keel is efficient and competitive. Ports are thus part of an international transport network which must comply with international rules and obligations. The Norwegian view has been that, through the 2004 Security and Terrorist Preparedness Regulation, we have already fulfilled our obligations under the 2005 Port Security Directive. Several EU countries have had similar approaches to ours. However, in the autumn of 2010, the EU provided stricter guidance on the interpretation of the Directive and ESA followed up with inspections and directives. The Norwegian approach to the Port Security Directive has therefore been reconsidered, so that vulnerability assessments for more Norwegian ports now need to be carried out than we have previously considered necessary. The consequences for ports are that a new vulnerability assessment, or review of the current assessment, needs to be carried out according to the rules of the Port Security Directive for all of them. 600 approved ISPS terminals. The new leadership means that it is not only the port terminal itself but a larger surrounding area to be assessed for any security measures. If the vulnerability assessment shows the need for further hedges, a hedging plan shall be established. However, I would like to stress that the requirement to carry out a vulnerability assessment is not the same as the requirement for action to be taken. The costs of carrying out security assessments and any measures taken must normally be borne by the ports themselves. It has been estimated that the costs of carrying out both the vulnerability assessment and the safety plan will be about. NOK 10 000 per port terminal. In exceptional cases, if a completely new port terminal vulnerability assessment is required, the costs are estimated at a point between NOK 30000 and NOK 50000. If the vulnerability assessment identifies the need for action, additional costs will be incurred, depending on the type of action and the scope of the action. It is therefore not possible to be more specific in this matter of costs. ESA has granted a deadline of 1 January 2012 to complete the vulnerability assessments and 1 July 2012 to prepare and implement any security plans. As I said, ships and ports are an important part of our transport system. The coastal works therefore actively contribute to guidance and assistance to ports, so that all plans and necessary measures are put in place within the time limits set. Work is a high priority, and most ports are well under way. So I'm assuming that we get to the goal in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1136	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The reason why I address this question in the Questionnaire is that I want us not to get into a situation where there is uncertainty at a number of ports in Norway. Most ports in Norway have a particularly important connecting point function and are essential for the living life of the communities they serve. That is why I am asking myself if the government has taken a little too light on this directive. The cost of the analytical work itself does not amount to NOK 10000-50000, to which the Council of State refers, but rather to the ability to carry out the analytical work requested by ESA. Will this work be completed by the end of the deadline on 1 January 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1143	The EU directive is a demanding exercise. As a rule, I have the impression that we're being criticized for too easily taking over everything that's coming. That might be the normal criticism. In this case, as regards the Port Security Directive, we have relied on an interpretation of what several other countries have done. Then we have recorded that the EU has had to tighten up a little more. ESA has followed up in that area, and we have had a dialogue with ESA at that point beyond winter, spring and early summer. It ended up with us accepting that here we must also use a more stringent interpretation. That is the background for sending a letter to the ports, and the Coast Guard prioritizes this. With the knowledge I have today, I hope and believe that we will reach the deadlines that are set.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1148	It is reassuring that the Council of State hopes and believes, but I am a little concerned about what kind of dialogue the government has with ESA and the follow-up to this directive. The background, of course, is what we all know. There is terrorism and terrorist threat, etc., where the same legislation must be followed up in Norway as within the European Union. In this context, the Directive has been interpreted in its own way from a national point of view in Norway, which has proved unsatisfactory. My follow-up question now finally is: How does the government work concretely in its dialogue with ESA and the Competition Authority and legislation at EU level to ensure that we do not get into the situation that we risk a Norwegian port shutting down its operations, with the negative consequences of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1155	In this case, at least I am very secure, because I have got an overview of all the contact that has been between the Norwegian authorities and ESA. There has been an exchange of letters over a period that was most intense in February, March and beyond this year. At that point, it was announced to ESA that the more stringent guidance for the interpretation of the Directive was accepted. You will be informed in a letter about this, on which the Coastal Agency will of course have the task of continuing this contact with the ports. They assist ports and work actively and purposefully, so that they can reach this deadline and do not get into that situation. Now the ports are not physically closed, but boats that in case go to a port that does not have the necessary approval may be at risk of having a more precise inspection afterwards. But again, based on the knowledge I have, I have no reason to believe that we will not reach the deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1162	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-10-26.ana.ud378e1175	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
