ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e51	Two permit applications are available: by the representatives Ivar Kristiansen and Tore Nordtun on leave of 22 and 23 March, both to attend a seminar at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Tbilisi, Georgia On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For the county of Nordland: Jonni Helge Solsvik For the Province of Rogaland: Laila Thorsen
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e81	Jonni Helge Solsvik and Laila Thorsen are present and will take the seat. The representative, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e86	I am delighted to promote a proposal by the representatives of Per Arne Olsen, Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Bente Thorsen, Gjermund Hagesetter and myself to ensure an increase in pay in low-wage workers with a main focus on the education groups in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e91	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e105	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after the post of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e114	Proposalers address important issues: firstly, the need for organised housing for people with disabilities, and secondly, the difficulty of keeping track of the possibilities of assistance for the organisation of own-dwelling. The Municipal Committee has had a good discussion of the proposal. It was also put up for an open hearing. Unfortunately, no one reported to it. With the exception of the Party for Progress, all the parties are today united on the comments and the proposal for a decision. It is an important objective to increase the number of dwellings available to persons with disabilities. No matter who we are, the home is important to our quality of life. Today, too few dwellings are available to everyone. The new Law on Planning and Buildings strengthens the requirements for accessibility. This means that new dwellings can increasingly be used by disabled persons. The claim of the home bank on the basic loan contributes to the same thing. The major challenge is to ensure the availability of existing dwellings. And while small houses represent one problem, multi-apartment buildings pose other challenges. The proposers refer to the Husbanken’s Housing Adaptation Project, which was established in 2005 to facilitate better solutions in single and small dwellings. The project showed that good advice, coordination and flexibility in the use of the instrument are necessary to achieve results. In the case of multi-apartment buildings, the challenges are great. Many Norwegians live in blocks with three, four and five floors without a lift. When a single resident needs a stairlift, the assistance centre supports it, upon individual application. When the occupant no longer needs a stairlift, it is removed again. For many reasons it will be much better to install permanent lift solutions. The Government has introduced a grant for the design and installation of lifts in existing residential buildings. This is an important scheme that the Workers' Party is committed to strengthening. In addition to being self-organised, proposers point out how difficult it may be to obtain an overview of the different schemes in place. The division of labour between countries, municipalities and other actors may create confusion, and there is reason to believe that this could lead to unnecessary length of proceedings. This is part of the background for the government in 2008 setting up a public sample that last year presented NOU 2010:5 ‘Active participation, equivalency and inclusion’. The committee had, among other things: as a task to assess whether current organisation ensures cost-effective and user-friendly solutions. The selection panel has been at the hearing, the consultation deadline expired on 15 October, and the government is now working on the proposals. The right to inclusion is fundamental. Although a great deal has been achieved in shaping society to ensure equality and full participation, until these objectives are achieved, there is still a great deal to be done. We achieve best full participation if we use both individual and general instruments. General instruments mean the organisation of society for all. These leaders are part of legislation such as the Planning and Building Act, the Working Environment Act, etc. The new Discrimination and Availability Act entered into force on 1 January 2009. It imposes an obligation on society to facilitate equality, inclusion and active participation, and contains an accessibility component that ensures universal design. At the same time, individual measures and access to facilities are necessary. I believe that the proposers want to strengthen the individual's right to receive such assistance. They propose inter alia: to make the provisional regulation FOR-2004-09-07-1248 permanent. It is among the issues discussed in the NOU mentioned that the government is required to address. I understand that the proposers are impatient, but precisely because this field is complex and unwieldy, as the proposers also point out, it is important to see things in context. Obtaining individual suggestions from a comprehensive selection setting and then treating them independently of everything else is not the way to go. Having said that, I would like to thank the proposers for pointing out key issues through the proposal and thus making an important contribution to the overall evaluations that are now to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e135	The organisation of housing for people with disabilities has been a problem area for many years. A working group in the mid-1990s, including: former Rikstrøgdeverket, Husbanken, auxiliary centres with representatives of the user page, etc. The Joint Organisation of Disabled Persons and the Association of Norway have worked on this issue. The background for this working group was poor coordination and fragmentation of housing adaptation. In other words, this has been a big problem for about 20 years, and we really don't come anymore today. Today, the NHF experience that people are being forced to move from their homes, partly because of lack of organisation, but also because it is more cost-effective for municipalities to collect people with needs in the same housing complex. We define these dwellings as care homes, and with that person's own home, but the person cannot freely choose a dwelling, but is pushed out of his original dwelling. Therefore, the current treatment of this matter is very important. The party of progress will refer to the Project Accommodation, where it appeared that the elderly and the disabled have had opportunities when their housing is no longer functional. Lack of good organisation today means that many people who could continue to live in their own homes have to move to an institution or to a nursing home. The party of progress believes it is necessary to give greater priority to the organisation of existing dwellings in order to meet a growing need, as very few of today's dwellings are well-organised for this group of people. With today's financing system, many people experience having to pay for the necessary arrangements in their housing, so that care activities can be carried out in their own homes, even in cases where the option is to move the care provider to an institution. The party of progress believes it is crazy that all the necessary adaptations should be privately financed, and that there must be cohabitation and equal justice throughout the country, regardless of the municipality of residence. In some cases, it must move one spouse or partner into a nursing home, while the other will be in their former common home. The party of progress thus sees that lack of organisation can make it difficult to visit their common home. We believe that the former world must be able to be equated with a leisure home. The party therefore makes an own proposal on this matter. The party of progress indicates that, with today’s technological developments, there will be an increasing number of people who can live home, even with a high level of care needs, but it requires better organisation of the housing. The progress team thinks that everyone with disabilities should have equivalent rights to a well-adapted service offer in the world, and to the extent possible, let go of the need to move to the institution. The Progress Party has therefore also put forward an own proposal to this effect. I bring this up with our suggestions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e152	The representative Åge Starheim has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e155	I'll be brief. The representative, Håkon Haugli, has taken up the majority's position, but there is no doubt that the proposals of the Progress Party also have broad support in the sense that many want this to be an issue to be highlighted and addressed. In this respect, the majority of the Committee has pointed to this NOU Active Participation, Equivalence and Inclusion, where the consultation deadline expired on 15 October 2010. And just to get the Council of State in advance, I want to ask her the question: When does the government intend to follow up this NOU, and is there something that is relatively close in time? The justification given by the Right to reject the proposals of the Progress Party is that the NOU has just been issued and that the consultation period has expired. I expect the government to put this in a broader context and to propose this. If the Council of State could then suggest something in its statement about when this would come to Stortinget as a matter of its own, I would have been grateful for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e164	I would also like to thank the proposers for addressing this, because this is an important and good debate, which is about how we organise the entire housing sector. One of the things our government has a lot of pressure on is just to make sure that all the homes that are being built today have a universal design, are available. Sometimes the debates go high, but I expect, when I hear the commitment of the Progress Party in this matter, that the Progress Party will stand at the work of the government just to ensure universal design in all new buildings, even though this is claimed by many builders today to be something more expensive. It will be the experience that shows. It is so incredibly much better to take the job of providing universal design and accessibility for all dwellings at the moment they are built, instead of coming many, many years after when the solutions in many contexts become much more expensive and very often just become the second best solution, instead of getting fully organized from day one. There are two experiences I thought I would take up. One is its own experience with older grandparents who need housing. My grandfather was fully facilitated by the emergency centre and the full rights-based system of the lift at home. But there is no doubt that he was incredibly happy the day he could move into the nursing home, not because he there had full arrangements in any way beyond any home help and such, but because of the relief of the fact that instead of staying on three levels he could live on one level, and because of the proximity that he had to the elderly centre, where he had the opportunity to go and eat dinner every day instead of having food brought home and be alone. You get so much extra by having furnished dwellings, where everything is collected in a nursing home. That's why I don't think it should just be said that people are going to live in their original house, as well as the only blessing, because there are very, very many people who want to move closer to what's of organized offerings for the elderly, through volunteer centres, elderly centres, etc. In this context, it's very, very good when you think from the local authorities completely, make complete offers where people like to get one offer in one phase of life and another offer a little later, like maybe a nursing home nearby, so that you have closeness. If you need temporary nursing homes for a shorter period, you will still stay in the same environment and meet the same people. It's a clear advantage of planning. At the same time, there are a number of people who have different disabilities, which are young people, and who just don't want to be with all those who are older, in nursing homes, but have the opportunity to live for themselves. We must have good arrangements and rights for them. The other thing I want to mention is the experience of a conference I attended yesterday, under the direction of the House Bank, Enova in Stavanger and the Housing Building Laws, the Housing Cooperation. We're building about 1 pst. of new housing stock in the year. The large amount of dwellings in which people are going to get older, and will need to be able to visit each other in, live their lives in, are dwellings that are built today. You have an example of that in Barkaleity settlements in Åsane, a place that I know well, because that's the area where I've grown up. They had made total investments in every way possible. They had benefited from counselling for housing cooperation, grants from Enova, good and favourable loans from the House Bank, which made it cheaper than other private financial institutions, thus contributing to making the project viable and inexpensive. They had also built some extra dwellings. They had installed a new lift in old buildings. There is no doubt that it makes those dwellings available in a completely different way, and that the people living in that type of housing, Barkaleity, can live their entire lives there until they may need a place to live or die. They can live their whole lives in Barkaleity. Let's say it like this: instead of you having entered into rights-based arrangements for each of the people who live there, who would have installed stairlifts, there's no doubt that for society as a whole, it's much, much more sensible to make sure you take an investment together. Some of the experiences of this NOU show that when you coordinate the different schemes, you gain those experiences, you can gain more benefit not only by strengthening the individual rights of individuals, but by taking on the great social measures that benefit everyone. We have to do more of that in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e185	The government is busy facilitating most of the possible constructions and buildings to be organized for the most part. It is important that in life’s different phases we can choose, may have an option in relation to being able to stay at home as far as possible, and/or may have the possibility of being able to have a care home or, eventually, a health care home. We are aware that too many buildings and buildings are not adequately equipped for people with disabilities. It is particularly a major challenge in existing buildings and housing. A special challenge is housing blocks without a lift. Thus, the government has strengthened the requirements for lift in new multi-purpose buildings. To increase the proportion of blocks by lift, we have introduced an additional design and investment in lifts in multi-bus buildings. Demands for access are considerable intensification in new planning and building laws, and I think it is right, even though many voices have a say that it is too expensive. But it'll be more expensive not to take the extra cost today to facilitate the future. The new requirements for basic loans in the House Bank also make it possible for new dwellings to be more useful to disabled people than before. NOU 2010:5, Active participation, equivalency and inclusion, was provided in 2010. There are many proposals for action, including: a conversion of the organisation of the helper. The proposals need to be thoroughly evaluated by a legislative selection before it is possible to conclude on the individual proposals. It involves a holistic review of the organisation and alignment of the means of assistance. That's what the government is working on. The government has reduced a selection to discuss and advises on how to meet the key tasks of social housing policy for years to come. This selection shall deliver its fixation on 15 June of this year. There's a lot of intersection points here. The output should be monitored with a big message. Any changes in the design and alignment of the housing economic instruments, such as the housing supplement, would be natural to follow-up in this work. During the autumn of 2011, the government will present a big message on building policy. In this context, accessibility and universal design will be an important theme. There are major challenges that remain. But I think the government is doing a lot to facilitate construction and housing for people with disabilities. Several measures are to be assessed and will be taken as quickly as possible on the basis of the processes to be used in such cases. When it comes to proposal II, the Ministry of Labour is responsible for the regulation, but I am aware that the Ministry of Labour is considering making the regulation permanent. Making the regulation permanent was also one of the suggestions in NOU 2010:5, Active participation, equivalency and inclusion. The government will base its efforts on other sources. Describing from the hearing, consider the various proposals in the context and consider what to follow up. It is important to see the measures together, and to make a holistic assessment of the means of action so that a person can have a coherent policy, and so that what we do, meets those for whom we want to make everyday life easier. In the case of the supplementary proposal, it involves a change in the organisation and alignment of the rules for the supplement to be adapted. In order for us to have a common policy, this proposal must also be assessed together with the other proposals in a holistic assessment of the means of assistance. It is an important theme that has been put on the agenda today. The proposal, and not least the setting by the Municipal and Administrative Committee, will of course also be part of the government's work and will be brought back to the Stortinge at a later date.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e211	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e214	I have a feeling that both the Council of State and the Government parties are supporting our proposal. Then I would like to ask the following questions to the Council of State: I have received many messages from disabled people who have to move from home to an institution because they are unable to finance a reconstruction of their home, which means that the spouse may not be able to visit the other spouse due to a long distance. This goes a lot on funding. Will the Council of State be aware of the fact that a financing system is now being set up to allow them to rebuild their housing and thus to live longer, and to the extent that they also save the municipalities from excessive expenditure?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e221	That very question was a big matter at the Central Party's national meeting this weekend. Both the Center Party and the Government are concerned with strengthening the system of making arrangements in the world so that he can have the standard of living, and so one can choose to stay home for as long as one can and will. I myself was visiting a very upcoming 87-year-old. I have to say that it was impressive to listen to him and the 85-year-old woman about how they had been arranged, but that he now at the age of 87 found out that the two would move to a community, and that was their choice. It is precisely the freedom of choice that I am engaged in to facilitate, and that the government is to facilitate, through a proper commitment to care establishments and hospitals, so that they exist, if one chooses it, but also by expanding the system of organization in the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e229	I took note of the positive attitude of the Council of State to get a better offer to those who need measures of the kind outlined in this proposal by the Progress Party. I want to focus on proposal 2, which unfortunately seems to be downplayed here today, if ‘a State rights-based scheme in which individual needs for disabled persons are crucial to the actions to be implemented’. Then my question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State think there is a need for such a scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e239	You have to distinguish a little bit between the types of schemes you talk about. If you talk about lift arrangements, I'm in agreement with the representatives of the government party who said that if you have a cage in a multi-husband house, it's more useful for society and for individuals to go together to install a common lift than if everyone should do what they want to do. But if a cage in a single building, where there are no more, there must of course be possibilities to access that type of installation. So one cannot think one for all, we have to think differently. This is exactly the kind of assessment the government is now making to see how we can make everyone the best possible, and that we can also do it within a way that makes the community the best possible. We don't necessarily have to legally establish everything, but make sure that we together can build suitable dwellings, apartments and single homes, so that people can build as far as possible at home when they want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e246	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e251	When I heard the representative Håkon Haugli at the beginning of the discussion of this matter today, I took note of an extensive positive attitude to the initiatives taken by the four of us Frp people who have promoted this proposal for a representative in Stortinget, and the measures described both in the proposal for a representative and in what has emerged in connection with the committee's discussion and position on the Stortinget. I almost expected the representative Haugli to conclude that the Workers' Party, after further consideration, has actually chosen to vote in favour of these proposals – since they are so important, and since they are as well adapted to the need that exists. When also the representative Holmås, from the Socialist Left Party, invites the Advance Party to support the government's work on the organisation of housing for people with disabilities, yes, it becomes a bit strange when the same representative later today is going to vote against all these proposals. In that case, it will be up to the government to deal with a decision taken on a roll-out where the establishment of a rights-based system is crucial to individual needs in relation to disability. So these are the government parties about to vote away! Then the government has to deal with that. So the government parties here today, with their efforts, will create major problems not only for us who want to do something about this matter, but also for all those who are involved: people with disabilities. The same applies to the organisation of leisure housing measures by defining them as home No. 2nd@item: inlistbox I would like to say that today, with the attitude of the majority of the population towards the proposals of the Progress Party to improve these conditions, we will take a long step back and will be a blow to their faces. And there's a situation that they're dealing with, not at all should have come in.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e265	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3050]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e281	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e290	The proposal by the representatives of the Left on senior measures to maintain valuable teaching skills in school once again promises a debate that the Church, Education and Research Committee has repeatedly been concerned about: how to ensure enough teachers for the school in the years to come. There are many professionally qualified and experienced teachers in school today, but we experience that they want to give up as soon as pension schemes facilitate it. At a time when it's not possible to get enough trained teachers, it's a challenge that so many people get along while they still have a lot to contribute. There is broad consensus in the Committee that the lack of teachers is one of the greatest challenges we face, as the Council of State confirms in its response to the Committee. The proposal for a representative is supported by the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and it is proposed that the government address the challenge by promoting a proposal for the Grand Duchy on senior measures in the school sector, and that the government also contribute financially to the establishment of such concrete measures, which may help to increase the number of teachers in the profession. The opposition parties point to the overall responsibility for children and young people in good schooling, even though the operation of schools has been delegated to the school owners, mainly municipalities and county municipalities. The state is responsible for teacher training, and when we see that today's recruitment is in no way able to fill the need, it is necessary to take responsibility. Today it's only 20 pst. by the teachers who are working to the standard retirement age. With more than half of the teachers over 50 years of age, much indicates that concrete targeted action could result in more teachers standing longer in the profession. The government parties agree that there is a major challenge we are facing, but believe that many measures have already been taken that will address the problem. The majority therefore propose that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. In particular, reference is made to the high rate of continuing education and training, and that this must be effective for a time before an evaluator and, where appropriate, new measures are put in place. The majority also indicate that it is the school owner who is responsible for the employer and that it is the KS who coordinates negotiations on wages and employment. The right has repeatedly called for an extra bet on the teachers, and this is reflected among other things. in our alternative budget, where over the last two years we have doubled the effort for continuing education. Further training needs to be more adapted to the target audience through closeness to the offers and, of course, if it is implemented by others, it could help to increase the number of people in service. Seven out of ten teachers have said that they want such a follow-up. In any case, we need to be willing to look at further measures to ensure that in the years to come, students will be taught by competent and good teachers. Additional resources may, for example: exempt the seniors from some work on reports, and financial incentives may make it more attractive to work for a few additional years. We are not going to decide here and now what measures can and should be taken, but I am sure that the Council of State will be able to find out in dialogue with those concerned. Right would like to thank the Left for putting senior policy into school on the agenda, and would have hoped that the government parties would support the proposal and meet this challenge. We have no time to lose in securing the good teachers. For every semester we're going to evaluate and evaluate, good teaching skills disappear in large numbers out of school. I notice that the Council of State also agrees with the great challenge we are facing, but she will not do any further action now. I wonder what results the Council of State can show that there is no need to look at further measures. Has the government been informed of changes in the trend that most end before retirement? In that case, it would be valuable for the Storting to take part in this. If that is not the case, I would ask the government parties to support the proposal of the minority and ensure that we get a thorough review of what can help. Everyone should be interested in that. I look forward with excitement to the debate and the reason why the majority in the Chamber are prepared to lean back a little and bet that this should be resolved without further action. Finally, I am promoting the minority's proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e320	The representative of Svein Harberg has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e323	It is such that high levels of professional participation combined with high levels of labour skills are invaluable for competitiveness and for our well-being. But it is also such that lack of well-qualified labour is one of our most important minimum factors in developing our nation and well-being further. We see this from sector to sector, and it is so definitely so in the school sector as well. The proposers have correctly described the situation and have, therefore, seen in isolation arguments for proposing measures. The government has already taken up the issue. It's not like the representative Harberg says that the government is leaning back. On the contrary, the government is very active when it comes to addressing the problem. So it has been done, but it is then natural to follow developments closely before any further action is taken. It's actually a good development in our school. As everyone knows, it will be confirmed by international investigations of the professional results. Norway is now the tenth best nation in the OECD on reading — the second best in the Nordic region after Finland. It is particularly important to note that the whole OECD area is well advanced in the field of natural sciences. And the measurements of the students' well-being show that there is less trouble and unrest in our school. So, most of the arrows actually point upwards for time, and it's nice. Otherwise, interesting and meaningful tasks will stimulate teachers to stay longer in work. For this reason, it is immeasurably important that the school owner has a clear profile on the training course by investing in, among others. the training of the principal. In a Fafo report, the theme of senior measures is problematic and points to the physical and mental workload, loss of interest and motivation for the job, among others. as a result of a low level of support and encouragement from the closest leaders. Retirement culture in the workplace is also important in this context. Furthermore, studies show that it is important to focus on parallel actions aimed at both the working environment and the work organisation as well as the individual teacher. But based on the research, one can still conclude that there is no general formula to reduce early retirement. What works in one specific case will largely depend on the nature of the specific situation and the problem. For this reason, good schooling is immeasurably important, and the school owner has academic competence in administration. Many of these are already included in current policies, but many of these are also at home in the dialogue between the employee and employer organisations. I am very much in agreement with the leader of the Education Association when she says that the most important thing for the teachers is that they are given time to do their core tasks, simply to teach and run for and after work. Teachers over the age of 55 have, as you know, an hour of reduced education, but many people experience that they are being put to all kinds of work at that time, and that's not how we want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e336	Everyone agrees that the teacher is the most important resource for students’ learning outcomes. That is why there is also a very important proposal for a representative of the Left here. We have been documented from many different teams that the need for teachers is very great. It is assumed that there is a need for approx. 1000 new teachers a year, and we can't cover it through new education. Teacher deficiency can quickly become even worse. The proposal refers to a study carried out by the Education Association in 2010 among teachers, more than 50 pst. Of those 55 years of age and older, it is estimated that they are most likely to be early retirement. Regardless of age, 23 pst respond. that it is possible for them to move to another profession and 32 pst. all respond that they will probably avail themselves of the possibility of early retirement. Even if it works, for example: through GNIST, both centrally and locally, to get more applicants to the educational institutions and eventually to the teaching profession, we know that in a few years' time it will be a generational shift, and that there will be a shortage of teachers if we don't train enough teachers both to primary and secondary school. Therefore, it is also necessary to introduce senior measures that the seniors themselves will point to. It's positive that the application to the teacher schools has increased in recent years, but I think it's important to remember that as many as 45 pst. by applicants for comprehensive school teacher 1 training were not qualified and that a total of 30 pst. by applicants for primary school teacher 2 were also not qualified. So this year it's 60 pst. by the applicants for all qualified steps. At the same time, there is an outage among these students. This shows that if we're going to be able to meet the needs of teachers in the next few years, it's not just going to bet on the graduates. Efforts must be made to encourage teachers and not least seniors to stay in school. It may seem that all the parties have a great deal of understanding and agree that it is important to keep the seniors in school. There is broad agreement on the different measures adopted through the Communication Time for Learning, although the Progress Party believes that the measures should be much more concrete. But there's an end to unity. Government parties may not seem to take into account the seriousness and the major challenges that several reports point to, thus rejecting the need for measures that cost money. The majority of the Committee trusts that the new principal and teacher training is both rewarding and fast-acting, so that more teachers are more active in the profession. I think more that this again is a wait-and-see attitude from the majority, which can lead to the cow dying while the grass grows. So here we can risk the teachers ending, while the majority sits and evaluates the effect of what's done. For the Progress Party, it is important to pursue a good senior policy that facilitates the maintenance of these teachers as far as possible in school. In society in general and among students in particular, the value of the fact that well-qualified senior teachers get longer in school than they do today will be a big plus. This also means that we believe that the state must be involved and take an extra boost financially in order to get more seniors to stand longer in school. The Progress Party believes that the proposal contains good, concrete proposals that can be put into practice quickly to keep senior teachers in school. Against this background, the Progress Party supports the proposals in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e357	An important question, or perhaps it's more appropriate to say a statement from the proposers here that everyone now agrees on, is that it's important that teachers are as far as possible at work. They represent valuable competence. We have a lack of teachers, and for the individual, there is – usually – a good and positive experience when, on the grounds of offensive reasons, one is able to stand as far as possible in work, and does not retire earlier than he or she would like. At the same time, we don't have to go back that many years until we really meant the opposite. Seven-eight years ago, I was sitting in a senior committee at Lillehammer High School, and then the point was, how in the world are we going to get rid of these older teachers as soon as possible? It was important to get rid of youth, and second, older teachers were often viewed not just as success but as something that had expired. Fortunately, this has changed now. I want to draw up an experience to which I have from Uppland County. For the first time, we carried out a broad-based teacher and learning evaluation. Then we were surprised at how well the teachers came out, and not least that there was no connection between age and how well they were valued by the students. On the contrary, it was a small battle against students appreciating older teachers. That's also a good starting point. But for me, this is once again one of many issues that we have addressed in this room. We feel that the opposition is asking for more state – it's going to be a matter for the Storting, or it's going to be a government plan – while from the position we say that in those cases where responsibility lies first and foremost with others, we have to encourage those who have the primary responsibility here, more, than to go into the way that it is possible to read this proposal, that we are going to get in from above and put in place a case and a plan to change practices out there. Everything suggests that right now there is a good interaction between our school owners – municipalities and county councils – and the different teacher organisations in so many areas, not least in this area. What has been written in this matter shows that the recommendation that comes first from the proposers, and then from the Committee, the many ways in which an estimation of matters or activities that are already underway, as the school owners sailed, in cooperation with teachers and teacher organisations, has begun to develop. Thus, it does not represent any rethinking from our side, so I think I disagree with the case rapporteur who thankes the Left for such a concrete proposal. I read it first of all like, paragraph 1, that one is not very specific, it is primarily to ask for a matter, and, paragraph 2, that what is of substance in the matter, which is said to be merely to register things that are already largely in progress. The most important thing that can be done, I think Tor Bremer got out in a very good way. If we do a generally good job in School-Norway, then everyone will thrive more, stand longer in that job, and do a better job there. All the good things that are happening now, both at national level and, to a large extent, in municipalities and county municipalities, contribute to more people going to work. I think – but I haven't checked it – that we can already see a positive effect many places of the good, concrete and not least local work that is happening around. It is probably mainly local, in each school, in each municipality and in each county municipality, a great deal can be found out about the good measures – because it has little to find measures that are right there and then, with the people who are working right there and who are assessing whether to stop or not. In preparation, I have questioned myself a little in my network – which is a network in the right sense of the word by reporting back online – about proposals that people think you could come up with here. And it's clear that most people come with purely general measures. Some people bring out public health work. If a person thrives in the job, and in addition is able to take care of his health, there is actually a measure here. When they come to it more specifically, they do not least mention being seen and valued in a good way, and it is also stated in the proposal for a representative – that is, that your competence is valued more than being a member of the last few years that you are at work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e374	I'm actually a little pleased that we can discuss measures to keep more and more teachers in work, sail for St.meld. No 11 for 2008–2009 shows that more teachers are now in work, compared to the previous ones. The average age of all types of new school pensioners was 60 in 2006, compared with 57 in 2001. Still, too many teachers leave before they turn 67. We need them, and they need to know exactly that. When I prepared for this debate, I called my aunt. Auntie's 71 years old. She had worked 40 years in high school the first time she left, as she said. She is now really a retired person, but still works as a teacher, now doing Norwegian training for refugee children and taking other engagements and vicariates that the school offers her. It's not the money that's most important, but being useful. We work best when we do something, you know, said aunt. At the same time, she drew out important points to be more at work: first of all, that one is in good physical form, and that one still has the joy of communication. The fact that the reading duty was reduced for them over 55 years of age was very important and that they got an extra holiday week. At the same time, she stressed that the environment must be good, so that a person thrives in work. It is important to feel that one is useful, and that one is sought, without one being bound. Being a contact teacher also helps to make the days easier. If anyone would be in doubt about it, I have not consulted the other red-green representatives before this article was written. So that means that it's more important to make things easier for everyday life. Through the processing of Report. 19 S for 2009–2010, Time to learning, refers the government to a number of measures to do just that. Good management may be the most important keyword. Therefore, the government is following up on continuing education for both principals and teachers, fewer reporting requirements and more clarification of key leaderships. How municipalities and county councils can organise themselves in order to contribute to good management at their level must almost be up to the municipalities and county councils. But it is important to work on how they can help relieve teachers. However, it is important to note that central school management is necessary for results and follow-up. It is important to follow up their principals in order to ensure an acceptable number of meetings with content that feels necessary so that they have time to be pedagogical leaders. It is important to find solutions to avoid too much additional reporting at local and county level and to allow older teachers to obtain tasks that are better adapted to their capacity. So it's important to focus on the social environment. There may be a lot of people who think that it's a little unnecessary and sensory, but in times when all parties are involved in bullying, we've been told that a good learning environment is important for motivation and to avoid bullying. Adults are no different than kids – we like to feel useful, that we still master, that we are seen, and that we matter. Then maybe I'm most concerned about the professionals right now. I have not long since taken up the recruitment of new professional teachers from this pulpit. Recruitment of new hangs with the absence of old ones. There has not been a particular focus on vocational teachers in recent years, at least not on professional teachers related to typical occupations. Not only do we need professionals in the common subjects, but we also need more professionals to teach in subjects such as food and health, construction and construction, design, etc. It is important to focus on this group of teachers as well. Here we believe in the Center Party that we have a job to do, among other things. to look at how we can facilitate recruitment from other professional groups as teachers. In the design subjects, for example: many artists who can teach part of the vocational training. There are people with a good background, but they may lack pedagogic skills. The same applies to the recruitment of professionals in e.g. mechanical subjects. If you recruit one from the oil industry, it is quite certain that he also has some qualifications in relation to, for example, fachenglish. Here we have to review the requirements, so that we get a good and sensible recruitment of important professionals. Here I think the new qualification framework tool can become important. Hospitation schemes where professionals participate in companies and company employees can enter the school, we know that we work quite well in some county municipalities. Several schemes should inspire several municipalities. It is always easy to call for new schemes to be implemented centrally, and then you think that most things are going to work out. The world isn't like that. That is why the GNIST project is important. It is important that we work together on many levels and with the organisations. With the measures taken so far, there would be plenty of opportunities for municipalities and county councils to plan how they will keep teachers longer. It's a long-term job, and it's also about management. Wages and salaries are negotiated with the KS, and good environment, skills enhancement and a slightly simpler everyday life are established at the individual school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e406	In 2009, 40 teachers dropped out of the AFP in Skien. It was twice as many as the year before. It is also somewhat similar to some studies that say that half of teachers over the age of 55 are planning to take advantage of early retirement. I meet an incredible number of them. They're good people. There are really people who have a lot of skills to be able to contribute, both into school and into society. That's why I ask myself, what makes skilled professionals not in school out of time? What makes them choose early retirement? What is it that they no longer contribute to all that they have learned through a long and good professional life into school? The Christian People's Party aims to create a society where we say we need this competence. If we're going to create such a kind of a society, we can't make it feel like someone has gone out of date, that they don't feel like they're needed in the workplace, that there's a expectation that you're going out of early retirement. Many, who have chosen to stand out completely, tell me that they have had many questions about why they have not taken out the AFP, why they do not after long and faithful service enjoy getting it a little different. So they say, no, you know what, I want to work. But getting these questions is incredibly painful. So here I think it's about attitudes that say, "We need you." In the Christian People's Party's school policy, we are working on creating a mandatory mentoring system, and I know that the Council of State feels like a pleasure that the Christian People's Party is constantly pulling it out. But in this context, I believe that we have a large group of competent teachers, professionals, who at the end of their careers can use the experience they have built up, towards new teachers. They can help create a good start for the new teachers to come in. They can say something about all the losses you did at the beginning, and they can give a new teacher a better start and a better skill that you can complete. The Christian People's Party aims to make this happen, that teachers should know that there is a need for them, and we must be clear that we need their knowledge. So far on the matter. So to the Storting: I am surprised that we will once again discuss a matter in which everyone really agrees that here it is important that we do something – but there will be no support for concrete proposals to do anything. Sometimes it's a problem that the opposition is too detailed, that we come up with so many concrete points that are difficult to deal with over the table without having heard what the bureaucracy has said, what this really means, and the consequences of it. Sometimes it's because you don't know what the economic consequences are. But today we've given a menu from the opposition's side in two suggestions. In proposal No 1 we ask the government to promote a case for the Storting on senior measures in the school sector. Proposal No. 2 is about economics. Then I realize that a knowledge minister who has been a finance minister slows down a little and says that she has to negotiate this with the government. But the first proposal is really about turning Mr Tingelstad Wøien's speech into a policy and delivering it to the Stortinget. I could wish for a majority government that started using politics seriously, which began to see that there are some common things that we can agree on and do something about, and that are not primarily concerned with keeping a right to play. The senior teachers deserved that we had turned the Centre Party posts into concrete policies today and returned with concrete measures. They had deserved Tor Bremer's input on the matter to have been turned into politics and made a record, and they had deserved that the representative Aksel Hagen's policy had been reformed and made a concrete contribution to an action message to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e423	There can be no doubt that, alongside the fight against school dropout, it is recruiting teachers and holding the teachers we already have, among the greatest challenges we face in school policy in the years to come. The trend is clear: we are going to lack teachers in school – many teachers – perhaps up to 18 000 teachers in 2020, if the projections fail. This is undoubtedly very serious, especially given that the teachers are the most important input for learners. Such projections require that, as politicians, we have to turn every stone to make sure that the projections don't hit. That is what we in the Left are trying to contribute to, and we have previously proposed a number of different recruitment measures and to introduce national recruitment plans to ensure a sufficient number of teachers both in primary and secondary school. What is at stake is the scope of action that needs to be taken in order for more people to choose to become teachers. However, it is also about the breadth of action that is needed to ensure that as many teachers as possible are as far as possible in their work. It is simply not good enough when we are told that only a few teachers – in fact only 12 pst. according to the latest study by the Education Association – plans to stay in the job until they reach the age of 67. This is precisely the background to the proposal by Mrs Trine Skei Grande and I have promoted in this debate. We simply want to do our part and help to ensure that as many teachers as possible are as far as possible in their work. According to the 2007 membership panel of the Education Association, as many as three out of four teachers want to work after 60 years, but very many feel that this is far too little facilitated. Good adults and experienced teachers are an invaluable resource in school, which we need to take much better care of than we do today. We have heard that more people have been involved in the debate. The feedback from teachers on what is needed for longer employment is, of course, multiplicity, but the most important thing for teachers to continue further in the teaching profession is that they have a good opportunity to carry out their core tasks as teachers. In short, teachers must be teachers. In addition, studies show that several other factors are perceived as important, including: good psychosocial work environment, good management, good physical work environment, high levels of professional freedom, higher wages, reduced working hours and good continuing training arrangements. I myself have been working in high school for 15 years, looking closely at how very knowledge-rich and competent lecturer colleagues have left so far too early, which could have been avoided with a greater focus on senior policy. We agree with the SV that it is a local responsibility. But this costs money, and that's one of the suggestions in this position. I am pleased that the Minister of Knowledge, in a letter to the Committee, stresses that she is joining the description of the situation given in the draft representative. Nevertheless, I find it disappointing that she only wants to focus on actions that are already underway and do not indicate that she will look at more measures – yes, perhaps even think a little new about this. Let me stress that, of course, the school owners – the municipalities and county councils – should have a responsibility to care for their employees, but the left considers that there is a need for the state to contribute to such an effort. It is not the same as premature interference in a negotiation case between the parties, as the Council of State suggests in its letter. It's about being proactive and taking a challenge seriously. There is also a broad consensus in the joint opinion of the opposition in this matter. For the Left, we are disappointed that the government parties, which make up the majority in this Chamber, will not, by any chance, support our relatively open proposal to get our own case to the Grand Council on senior measures in order to maintain the valuable competence we have in school. They should do that to show that they take the issue seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e450	I think this discussion is a little too narrow, because I think it's the same thing that works towards senior teachers who work towards teachers in general. It's that we have a high-level school, that the teaching profession has a high status, that we focus on all the positive work going on in school, and that those who used the PISA results to blackmail the job that was done in school, are now breaking out with joy over new results and the law-enforcement school. I think there's a lot of what we've been doing otherwise, which are really the most important senior measures, at least several speakers, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, Aksel Hagen, and so on, have been involved in this. What I hear from many older teachers is, point 1: I would like a few fewer students to be responsible for, so that I could really know when I went home from work that I had done a good day's work and had managed to follow them up. And, point 2: I wish I could concentrate my time more on what is preparing for instruction, conducting instruction, feedback, assessments and follow-up. That's what teachers say, if they're 25 or 67 years old. That's why I think the most important thing is that the Storting has the superiors, the big grips in school and education policy, because that's what sets the framework conditions for the status of the school, what kind of focus the school has, and what kind of work to do there. So the timing range and the size management of it are incredibly important. When it comes to recruiting more teachers for teacher training, we've done amazingly well. Over the course of two years, we have increased the recruitment of qualified applicants starting teacher training by more than 30 pst. That's great! It's now just about getting ready to hold on to it. The next challenge is that the teaching profession is so attractive that teachers don't get tired after 10 years, or after 15 years, and choose other occupations along the way. The last challenge is to get those who are getting closer to the AFP, to stand longer in their job, and for all these groups, the common denominator is the big picture of school policy. The previous government moved the negotiating responsibility of the teachers from the municipality to the state. I have to ask the opposition, what did you mean by that? As I understand it, it means that it is now the municipalities that have the negotiating responsibility and that are the employers of the teachers. That doesn't mean we're not going to have a policy for continuing education. We have. But that means that it is the municipalities that actually have to take responsibility for the very specific senior measures. I think we're in an intermediate position here, because if every time it's a crucial issue, the municipalities think we're not doing anything about it until there's any state action, then you're not local employers. That is why I have been concerned that continuing training should be a piece of work between the municipalities and the state – and it would be totally hopeless if the municipalities now lean back and say no, the Stortinget has not awarded one penny for senior measures, so there will be nothing of this, because this is about employer responsibility. What did it mean to transfer the negotiating responsibility to the municipalities? You have to believe that the municipalities are closer, have an overview, and find out how to follow up each employee so that they can stay in the job for a long time. We have contributed locally or centrally to negotiations on senior measures. We did that in 2006. At that time a critical phase of the negotiations had been reached. The state put up with $90 million. kr in senior measures in that settlement. This means that in the working time agreement for teachers there is a right to reduce the annual education framework by up to 5.8 pst. and 12.5 pst. – and it mattered. We see that some of the senior measures we already have seem good, but I think the most important thing the Big City can contribute to that discussion is to get the big picture in place, the most important job for School-Norway. It is about time use, focus, status and recruitment, and then the discussion has to be about the kind of responsibility you have when you are an employer. Then it is actually the responsibility of the municipalities to have a good senior policy for each teacher in their municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e465	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e468	The Minister of Knowledge is clear that she sees the major challenge for Norwegian school in getting enough teachers in the years to come. At the same time, she responds in her letter to the committee to experience teachers, for example. can be used as guides for newly-trained – or other competence transfer actions. But this is something that the parties themselves need to achieve through negotiations. But again, once again, this costs money, which is often a lack of money in many municipalities. The letter states that the government wants to bet on the measures already in place and will assess their impact. If senior teachers are to be exempted from ordinary teaching and used as guides, or have fewer pupils in the class, this will result in increased costs for municipalities. Will the Minister then provide funding for this, and for how many years will she assess the impact of the actions undertaken?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e477	Of course, we follow closely and have an overview of how we succeed in teacher recruitment. But I think the representative here is concerned with some of the big dilemma, because if you ask for the employer's responsibility for a group – the municipalities have asked for it, and they have received it, they got it from the previous government – then it can't be that you lean back and say that if we don't get extra money from the state, we won't do anything about it. Then you have to say, we want that responsibility, because we're very close to the challenges, because we want to invest in our employees, and because our municipality is earned by teachers working until they're 67, 70, and maybe even more than that. Then, of course, we should have the overview of the large picture, but if the employer's responsibility has been added to the municipalities and they themselves have asked for it, then the municipalities must have a much more offensive attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e484	I wonder if the Council of State believes that there are senior measures that can be put into school, which will result in more teachers being in service longer than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e489	I am absolutely sure that there are many ways — both by organising the work of older workers in each school, by seeing the value and competence of older workers in each school, and by thinking carefully about and figuring out how they can help to get people to work longer. So I think the most important job we do on the part of Stortinget is to ensure awareness of time use, what kind of work you have, and that you have a resource standard – which I know the Right is against – namely that we make sure that there are enough teachers to see each student. That's what I usually hear from teachers, that the feeling of not stretching to every day burns them out. It will be festive to hear what the Right believes about the future. Then I believe that if you're close, it's the concrete, directly directed senior measures that are a clear employer's responsibility. Then, of course, we have overall responsibility for how this works.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e494	It is now that it is actually the representatives who are allowed to ask the Council of State, and not the opposite. That's the way it's still going to be, right? If there is a trend across the board that senior measures are falling, does the Council see that measures of a national nature should be taken, excluding employers' responsibilities and employment? Then, twice today, and also in a previous debate recently, the Council of States has come to terms with this with negotiating responsibility and what the previous government did. Then I have just one simple question: does the Council of State disagree with the fact that this negotiating responsibility is to be assigned to the municipality, and in the event that she will use her majority power to move this back?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e503	No, I have no plans for that, but I had not transferred the negotiating responsibility from the state to the municipalities at the time it was implemented. It was done by the previous government, Bondevik, who was in the sieve as the Workers' Party's national meeting agreed. Taking it back is a huge issue, but we have two rather big dilemmas about national policy. One is employer responsibility and wage negotiations, and the other is working time contracts, i.e. the two most important resource factors in school are local. There are also many benefits to it. What I invite you to do is to reflect on the responsibilities of the Storting in relation to recruitment and what approaches employers' policies, and what we can expect from the municipalities. I'm afraid if the municipalities lean back and think we're doing nothing until the state comes and helps us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e510	First of all, the left knows where the responsibility for the school lies – at school, in the county and in the municipality. What we are asking for in this proposal for a representative is the focus on senior policy central and increased economic frameworks. But given that the very low number of teachers who say they will be in the profession until retirement, will the Council of State change its mind? And will she take on a more proactive role, given that those projections would turn out to be true?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e515	Of course, we're going along with this all the way. It's quite true that there are alarming numbers of people who lose their first-round pension, with AFP at 62 years and more, and who don't stand out completely, but I think the most important answers are in the big school-political grips. It may also be in the way in which the public service pension is designed, but it is a matter for negotiation. That being said, I believe that the representative Dagrun Eriksen was concerned about something that I think is very important, and that is the view of older workers in school. There, of course, we can contribute, even if it is not directly related to the senior measures, which are an employer’s responsibility. I think that many older teachers have felt skewed out, bullied a little, and that they have to justify why they're in the job instead of why they're going. Then there really are some attitudes that have turned their heads around, because it should be the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e522	Both the representative Hagen and the Council of State show in today's debate a touching concern for local democracy and a concern for the involvement of the Stortinge in something that is not formally the direct responsibility for it anymore. The same two are not equally concerned about Storting's involvement in the desire to legislate a norm for teachers in the same school. That's to the extent of an interesting observation, I would say, but I wonder if the Council of State thinks it's possible to implement a standard of teacher's density out in the real school, not just on a paper here in Oslo, without a successful and good senior policy for the adult teachers in school today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e528	I think that's the other way around, that's the most important senior policy measure we can take, because when you have fewer students per teacher and you get more teachers into school, at least that's one of the things that older teachers usually put into discussion with me. The certainty that you have the resources to do a good job, that you can go home from work happy to have seen each young person, I think maybe the most important investment. So I want to turn it around and say that getting a successful implementation of a resource standard that ensures a certain number of teachers in school will also be the most important thing to get more seniors to stay and recruit some of the people who have chosen other professions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e533	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e538	It has been exciting to follow the debate. There is a lot of praise for the school – and we can all agree on that. A lot has also been said about how important it is to facilitate teachers, that they have good health, and that it works at school. Yes, we all agree. But this case is not about all the good measures that are in place, that are natural, and that we are all in. The representative Breen talked a lot about the good results at school. Yes, that's because we have a good teacher's staff in the first place. It's about here, it's about being in the forefront of having a good learning loss in the future, so that we can still have these results. We have a large proportion of unqualified teachers today, and the proportion has increased. It's worrying. And we know that there is expected a big replacement, which is larger than the recruitment. So to Aksel Hagen, who has also today tried with the rhetorical grip that in the opposition we are occupied by more state. It is now the state that is responsible for teacher training. Then it's no wonder that the state takes responsibility when we don't manage to get enough qualified teachers. It is simply an obligation we have, we who are responsible for teacher training. In addition, we also have responsibility for the framework for those who run all, most of the schools in this country – insofar as everyone, through grants, but especially municipalities and county municipalities. It's our responsibility. So it's no longer a state. What we're talking about is extra action in a gap situation, where it's a challenge to get enough teachers, and where there's not enough teachers in the ministry. Then I'd like to go over to the Council of State. Today, I struggle with the logic – I don't like to do that when it comes to the Council of State – because she has said repeatedly, including in the lines, that the most important thing is that we get enough teachers into school now. So this is a suggestion to ensure enough teachers in school, when we're struggling to get enough, but it's being rejected. It is such that the employer’s responsibility lies with the school owner. It also does so in the case of continuing education — it is fully the responsibility of the school owner. But we've gone in with extras. We've made an agreement that will make it easier for them to implement it. That's what we're talking about when it comes to senior policy as well. It's an unused resource that's on its way out of school. And I have to say, we don't get the flow of things from this government to our committee, at least. The rejection of this proposal, at least as a basis for what can be done, amazes me greatly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e549	Part of this debate, I think, is very interesting and challenging, namely what is involved in the division of labour between our levels of government and the interaction between our levels of government. Not least the Council of State knows that whatever the subject, I'm just trying to merge this subject into the debates – not least if I can get something out of the county council's excellence. So to the representative Dagrun Eriksen, who says here it's important that we do something. But that's exactly what the situation is, here we're doing something! Here we do a lot. Government, committee and big business belong to those who do a lot in education policy, but not least do municipalities, county councils and the other social partners a lot right now, in this whole field – in breadth and overall – also what goes more specifically on keeping seniors in school. So there is policy and policy development here. But it is now – and fortunately it is – that all policies and policy developments should not take place in this room. To a large extent, it should be done, inter alia. in municipal, municipal and county halls. Not least, it is right in an area where there are municipalities and county councils that are school owners. So this might have something to do with money. But then this is a debate that we first and foremost have to take when we are going to discuss the county and municipal economy in the context of the state budget, so that the school owners can have a slightly larger economic arm to do what they want to do – actions that are developed in each school, in each municipality and county municipality, in close dialogue with them, and the organisations that are inside the picture. This isn't abdicating. This is to show confidence in those who have the primary responsibility here, but at the same time even contribute in different ways – and it really does government and big business today. One of the recordings I've got is the title: the gold and the greystone dilemma. I think that's a very good input. It's hard to know what are the general and correct measures here. Several of the representatives have already been involved. For some, it is a measure to be allowed to reduce working time and work loads somewhat — to be allowed to go a little slower at the end. For others, it's the opposite, they'll get their shoulder clapping and encouragement to stand on, maybe like never before, in the last years of their working life. Therefore, we need to be careful with general action from above, but we need to support under good locally developed measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e560	I understand that the opposition needs to mark itself and actively pursue opposition policies, but we should be careful in this room so that we don't run along with well-meaning big business. It is a reality that what works and is universally valid throughout the country, for example. focus on the schoolleader function and, to the extent that the schoolowner function is also involved, grab no schoolowner. The council was in on this by talking the school up. I would like to invite the opposition to join the fun exercise that is to talk our school up – talk a lot about our school. They're doing a good job at school. We see that the Time Usage Selection's recommendations are dealt with in this room, thoroughly and heavily. It has come with crystal clear recommendations. But then there are many aspects that need to be much more tailored to the specific situation – and they do not fit so well to discuss in this room. It's not necessarily about heads and ears. It can also do so, but it is about local organisation in view of the physical and mental workload. It goes without saying that, for the first time, it is the municipality or county that is close to the problems and that has the Employer's responsibility, which must address them. There is no general formula to reduce early retirement. However, what is important is to focus on parallel actions aimed at the working environment – physically as well as mentally – against the organisation of work, and to adapt the individual teacher to measures. In my eyes, there is something that the school owner is best prepared to do, but for all things, we naturally follow developments very closely and closely. We have great confidence that the situation will improve, based on what has arisen from problem settings, what the school owner has grasped, and what we have also seen has been raised by issues in the general debate. But if, contrary to what one would believe, it would not work, then, of course, all are certain that then there must be an intervention in the situation that is. There's no dogmatic relationship we're discussing, it's a practical approach to a practical problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e567	I'll try to leave it with this. But I can't help myself when the representative Bremer starts to suggest a «storey business» when one proposes to help municipalities and county councils to keep the teaching staff. I listened at Political Quarter this morning – I'm not sure if Tor Bremer did. However, the representative of the Workers' Party, who heads the Church, Education and Research Committee, suggested that there be stronger action in the school by making national leadership for the curricula, so that less should be done locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e572	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3050]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e590	The need for more health and care staff is great, and this will only increase in the coming years. In such a situation, it is important to provide a good framework for health education, and not least a dynamic working life in the health sector that can accommodate all those newly educated. However, the situation in the education sector is quite different. There is a marked fall in the number of students to e.g. nursing training in 2010. There was a slight upswing and upsurge in 2009, but the downward trend is unfortunately something that has lasted over several years. It is also the case that there is a significant decline in the training of nurses — as the 2009 figures tell us. Here the figures show that three out of ten students who were admitted to nursing school did not complete the education at the normal time. There may be several reasons for this situation, but in addition to the course of training itself, it is certain that the conditions surrounding the possibilities of working life and the content of the job to be given after completion of education are also recorded. Conditions of low flexibility in the organisation of working time and weaker wage developments than in many other sectors are, of course, important elements. Low competition on the employer’s side is a special feature for the health sector. Unfortunately, this does not make it possible to find the dynamic and the competition between employers to deliver the best working conditions found in sectors with greater diversity among employers. There are also, of course, differences in public health when it comes to attractiveness. Many prefer to work in the state hospital sector rather than in the municipal care sector. There is little doubt that both flexibility in terms of working time and pay and professional development opportunities are involved here. Unfortunately, we are constantly getting feedback that even in the education process you get clear signals about what you should choose, and there is not necessarily the municipal care unit as persistent. I have so far seen little willingness from the government to do anything about these challenges, other than to stick to the established structures of the care sectors. In recent times, we have had the so-called Adecco case, which has focused not only on the outsourcing and supplementing of private operators, but also on the rights of employees and not least on flexibility and rotational arrangements. Let it be clear that no one defends cheating and fantasy, and Adecco has got what is deserved – I think all parties in this room believe that. But unfortunately, in the Adecco coolant, an extensive culture for various fractures has also been revealed in the public sector. In the news last week, we heard about 50,000 fractures only in Health South-East, and unfortunately there are so many, many more. The Progress Party and I assume that the rest of this room is occupied by both parties, and do not accept that Norwegian health and care policy should have it that way, both for the sake of the employees and not least for the sake of the people we are all for, namely patients, residents in institutions, etc. So when we are discussing the recruitment of these professions today, we probably have to admit that the reputation, no matter where you work, in the public sector or in the private sector, has not contributed to a good reputation and thus a great influx into the profession. When you can get an impression of a lot of breaches of working time regulations, a lot of pressure on the job, little full-time opportunity, etc., it can also contribute to a lack of desire to start in the sector. This is precisely why it is appropriate to have time to discuss the flexibility of this sector as well. For this reason, I have, among other things: see the project that takes place in the state council's own town, Bergen, where local opportunities for flexible working time arrangements are used, where they refer to very good results. I would like to quote from the case that Bergen City Council dealt with – I think it was at the dump of last year – where it stood in the setting: «The Board is very satisfied with the experience gained in units with alternative working time arrangements. In particular, it is gratifying to see the positive impact these schemes have had on quality of service and on the working environment. Recruitment to trades is very good and the number of full-time jobs has increased significantly. We’ – that’s when Bergen – ‘will henceforth, in cooperation with the employee organisations, work to extend the scheme to more housing communities’. The results from Bergen are therefore good, but the case also points out that the possibilities are limited by the fact that only annual exemptions are granted. The lack of predictability complicates some, and long-termity disappears, as well as the fact that, of course, after today's regime, this is only possible with some social partners. So here's some people who actually have some kind of veto right. I think we should take with us, for example. The experience from Bergen, from other industries and look at the opportunities for a more flexible working life also in these fields, and I think we should do that with an open mind. In addition to the lack of flexibility, there is a general problem that the health and care sector has slowed down in terms of pay conditions. However, this is something the government on short notice can do about, as it is mostly public jobs we are talking about. The public sector is the employer of most of the so-called women-dominated low-wage professions, as they are often found in the public sector. For many years it has always argued that it is the responsibility of the parties to negotiate pay and working conditions. However, in 2000 and 2001, the government implemented Stoltenberg I significant changes in teachers’ working time regulations. Thus, in connection with this and outside the regular settlements, there was a strong pay jump for the teachers. Today, the Progress Party has also been involved in promoting a proposal in this respect. If we are going to do something about the working conditions in large parts of the care sector, the government is going to have to deal with wage developments. As mentioned earlier, recent developments have also shown that there is a great need to improve flexibility in working time. There is a need to bring the framework conditions here into line with the time and not least with other social sectors. In addition to what governments themselves can do as employers and regulators to improve the framework conditions for workers in the care sector, thus making this a more attractive route of education, it is important to facilitate also labour competition. When employers have to fight for labour, the consequence is often that it contributes to better conditions for the industry and the profession in particular. Release to more actors in today’s near-care monopoly will bring the dynamics and competition for the best working conditions to the care and care sector as well. Competition is good and will ensure that we get the best possible quality in the care provision for those in need. This will also contribute to competition to provide good working and pay conditions for employees, which we find in other sectors and in other areas. More use of competition and diversity of employers will make a solid contribution to better pay and development opportunities in the care sector. This, in turn, will provide a better basis for recruitment to the professions. So it's going to be exciting to hear what the Council of State will take on initiatives to improve pay terms and modernise the working conditions of the care sector, thereby contributing to better recruitment, better reputation and attractiveness for these for all of us important occupational groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e629	It is an important topic that the interpellant addresses, and I will answer the questions that have been asked in writing, and also later try to address some of the issues that were raised in the article. Recruitment is of great importance in how we manage to meet the challenges we face in the care service in the future, both in terms of the growing proportion of people under 67 years of age in need of care services, and, of course, in terms of what we see in the future, with an increasing proportion of older people who will demand skilled labour in the sector. But here we have taken a number of measures, and since accession the government has been faced with the challenges of competence and recruitment in care services. Already with St.meld. No 25 on future care challenges from 2006 we set out a plan for this work until 2015. It is the municipalities that are responsible for providing everyone with the care services they require. The main task of the government in this respect is to ensure that municipalities have good conditions for exercising this responsibility. From 2005 to 2011, the government has strengthened the municipal economy by a total of 47 billion. kr. Municipalities have used this economic space to give priority to care services. Our target of 10,000 more annual shifts in care services by 2009 has been achieved with a solid margin. Care services have been strengthened by about 14,800 annual works in the period 2004 to 2009. It is also gratifying that 80 pst. This growth consists of annual works carried out by trained professionals. We have set ourselves a new target of 12,000 annual works towards 2015, and the figures so far in the period show that we are on the right track. In 2009, we received about 2,300 new annual reports in the care service, and preliminary figures show a growth of another 3,300 annual reports in 2010. Involuntary part-time is a challenge for these services. It is therefore gratifying that the strong growth of the year we have seen in recent years is due to the fact that many municipalities have offered employees with small job breaks to large or whole jobs. In itself, this represents about 6,000 annual works in the period 2005-2009, or almost 40 pst. of the total growth during the period. This means fewer employees with weak links to services, and thus better quality. In order to meet future care challenges, it is essential to work in a targeted and long-term way to raise the level of education and to strengthen the recruitment of care services. That is why we have established our own competence and recruitment plan for the care services – the Competence Plan 2015. The plan shall contribute to ensuring adequate, competent and stable manning. Nearly 9400 people have received grants for basic or continuing training during the first three years of the competence plan. Continuing education and training are effective measures to increase recruitment and maintain the labour force. For this reason, the Competence Lift finances decentralised courses of study, among other things. nursing and protective care. This has proved to be a good tool to contribute to a more stable and well-trained workforce in rural areas. In addition, decentralised higher education provides experienced caregivers, caregivers and health professionals with the possibility of higher education in the vicinity where they live. Approximately 320 people completed decentralised higher education in different health and social subjects only in 2009. The main recruitment challenge, both in the short and longer term, is to train enough health professionals. Health professionals, auxiliary workers and care workers are the largest occupational group in care services. Here the average age is high, and estimates made by the SSB show that there could be an increasing shortage of this educational group by 2030. It is therefore important that more young people apply to health and social sciences in secondary education, and that we succeed in adult training schemes in the field of health workers. Adults have always been the largest and most stable source of recruitment for the care sector. Of those employed in care services in both 2008 and 2009, almost 4000 were in receipt of a change in their level of education — most from being unskilled to gaining higher education skills. Many of these were adults. This was made possible by means of the Competence Plan 2015. To recruit more young people into the care professions, Healthcare professionals were established in 2005. Action by health professionals has been a success. This action has led to increased attention to opportunities in the profession and has contributed to a slight increase in the number of applicants for training. The project was continued in 2010 in the initiative Become a health professional. In 2009 we also launched a nationwide recruitment campaign. The campaign appears to have contributed to an increase in the search for health and social subjects in 2009 compared to the previous year. However, we must recognise that the search for health-care workers’ training and non-response during the training cycle is a major challenge. In many ways, care services have a reputation for young people. The Health Directorate is therefore actively working on information and awareness-raising activities through, inter alia, the provision of information and awareness-raising services. social media such as Facebook to increase the knowledge and status of these educations among young people. The strong increase in users under the age of 67 requires a multidisciplinary approach. A number of studies show that in the social and cultural field, today’s care service is essentially short. The government believes culture, activity and well-being are central and fundamental elements of a comprehensive care provision. It requires greater professional scope in the care sector, with emphasis on, inter alia: social pedagogy, ergonomics, protection and social work. Strong professional and competence environments provide better services and also have ring-effects for recruitment. It raises the status of care professionals and makes it more attractive for people with professional and personal competence and an interest in caring for services. That is why we have set up one development centre for hospitals and one development centre for home care in each country. Centres shall stimulate professional development and good learning environments. Centres have a specific responsibility to ensure the dissemination of competences and knowledge to other hospitals and home services in their counties. We have also set up five regional centres for care research. Each of these centres is linked to a higher education institution that educates health and social workers. Centres shall contribute to the strengthening of research and development practice, the dissemination of research to municipalities and the education sector and contribute to the enhancement of competences in the care sector. The research activity strengthens the professional and methodological development of health and social education and complements the established research institutions in this area. On the basis of current and future challenges, one of the main steps of the Cooperation Reform is to develop a new future municipal role, so that municipalities can more fully meet the ambitions of prevention and early intervention in the course of the disease. A stronger community role will require robust arenas for skills development and good professional environments that ensure the development and dissemination of relevant knowledge and competences. Through the activity in the Competencelift 2015, we have done a lot. However, this is not an area where we can rest on our laurels. This is why, after the Competence Plan was established, we have established a separate grant for vocational education in the health and social field and added to further skills measures in, among others. management, active care and nutrition. More competence improves the quality of services, provides recruitment and contributes to the maintenance of labour in the sector. So I want to answer one of the questions -- I can come back to some of the others later. It was mentioned that the number of nursing students in recent years was reduced. That's not right. According to the figures I have, the number of places of study in the hospital has increased by 360 from 2006 to 2010, and in 2010 there were also more qualified applicants for nurse training than it was. in 2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e665	I don't think we're going to spend the time hitting each other in terms of numbers. I've picked up my numbers from the Council's own department and other public pages. But I believe that we all – and in and of ourselves the Council of State – recognise that we have challenges. Let's agree on that. We have challenges in getting more people to apply for the profession, more to want the education, more places to study and, not least, to ensure that fewer people fall from the profession and that more people follow a normal course. I also believe that we should work together to help make it even more attractive to seek employment in the sector. Then again, I come back to what I spent a lot of time in my post, and that the Council of State did not affect, namely the flexibility of the labour market. Other industries are characterised by the fact that there is often more flexibility, a little depending on where you are in the country, and what is the challenge at all times, etc. I am not going to spend a lot of time on North Sea Tours and other types of tours that characterize other industries. However, some form of greater flexibility and less equalisation within an industry often contribute to more competition and to better conditions over time, and thus to more people applying for and wanting to work in a sector. And as the Council of State itself says, the cooperation reform, on which we are all united – at least in terms of the issues – is going to give us even greater challenges, not least when it comes to getting more people to apply specifically for the nursing profession and to want to work on the municipal side. We all need to help raise our skills and not least our desire to deal with difficult problems in the municipal sector, not just in hospitals. That is exactly why I think we need to do something about the flexibility of this labour market. I honestly believe that competition can also contribute to more employers and that more people want to work in the sector in the long term. Once again, when the Council of State mentions the 47 billion, it's probably a correct number, but I don't think it's supposed to give the impression that there's a net increase in the local government sector. Here, there is a lot going on in both wage increases, price increases and other things. There has been a lot of money allocated to the local government sector, but it needs a lot more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e674	My main concern with emphasising the growth of the local economy was that it has been possible to both recruit and employ more people in the important professions — the nursery sector has of course taken part — in the health and care sectors. There we've recruited a lot, and we've recruited a lot more than what we had as a goal. That's good, because we need a lot of people in this important profession. I would like to stress that this is a profession that we all at some point in life are in contact with and are completely dependent on. That is why I fully agree with the interpellant that we need to do what we can to facilitate good working conditions for this particular group. For me, it has been important that we look at many jobs as part-time workers. Being able to work full-time and have a wage to live on is very important. What I control directly, the health companies, has been concerned that we are demanding to reduce the part-time by 20 pst. during this year. It's an ambitious goal. I have to say that I hope that the municipalities do the same. There has been a positive development in this respect, and in fact there is still a way to get better job breaks. When we talk about flexibility, I also have to stress what the interpellant was about: none of us defend crime. We don't. Although there is a never so small percentage of the total business, we do not defend crime – even when the offences are somehow put in a system, as we have seen from examples coming up in the debate – Adecco is one example. At the same time, we must not add up to tournaments that are not to live with for those who are going to work in them. But it's important to take with you the experience that comes from the project that's been in Bergen. It is clear that for some groups of those receiving the help, this kind of tour means a good experience. At the same time, the most important thing here is for employers and employees to come up with good solutions, which do not conform to the Working Environment Act, which is so important to observe in these care professions, which, after all, are as tiring as they are. So we have to work in many fields to make this profession more attractive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e683	It's an important matter the interpellant takes up today. The starting point is the challenges we can already see when it comes to getting the supply and demand of services to jump into the future healthcare system. St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009 The Interaction Reform, and its treatment by the Storting, points out that not only do we have a challenge to get many enough to train in the health field, but we also need a different weight in terms of resource use, compared to what has been the case so far. There are three main factors that need to be taken into account when looking at and distributing resources in the future: the geographical dimension, which relates to the north-south, congested-spreaded or centre-periphery relationship between disciplines, e.g. between highly specialised medicine and home medicine and general medicine, etc. the relationship between levels in the health sector, e.g. between the specialist health service and the primary health service and, where appropriate, between: These challenges will be challenging both for recruitment and for our education systems. To date, the health sector has focused primarily on the needs of the specialist health service in the field of education. If we are to get health services twisted in the direction of which there is a great deal of consensus, we need to give far stronger priority to the needs of primary health care, and we need to improve on general public health work. In the statistical projections for the health sector — if we look forward to 2030 — many of the estimates show that we can have a deficit of between 35,000 and 45,000 annual works, if we base today’s educational rate on health professionals. This will primarily concern nurses and especially health professionals, but we can also have a deficit of physiotherapists, health sisters and midwives, to name a few. Not least, we need a health workforce prepared to meet the great growth of the elderly that we are going to have, especially after 2020. Therefore, in order to meet the objective of providing equivalent services, we need to step up work on recruitment and education in health education. In this regard, we need to identify and strengthen the factors that can lead us in the direction we want. One of the main tools for the recruitment of health professionals, as the Council of State said, is to have decentralised training provision, both in terms of basic training, continuing training and continuing training. We've seen that proximity to the place of education makes people more educated and stay at or near the place of residence they have during the education period. Therefore, we need to further strengthen this element of health education, in combination with various other good recruitment and stabilisation measures. And then we need to strengthen our efforts to create more apprenticeship places in the health sector. The dropout in high school is, of course, a challenge. There may be a major problem for the general and health sectors, especially if the trend is towards large groups of young people staying out of work. That's why it's great that the Ministry of Knowledge has addressed the problems in high school, in consultation with each state. There is also an exciting project under the auspices of the Health Directorate, where young people are used in the recruitment work to train more health professionals, among others. through young health bloggers, young people who take education or work in the health sector and who, by means of new social media, tell about their profession or about their education. When I had an interpellation about just today's theme for approx. A year ago, I said that if we're going to get young people to work there, we have to start talking about the health sector. It was at a time when the concept of talk was generally only known on Senja and on Andøya, but at the same time it was relevant to the debate at that time, and it is today. But if we are to have coverage for the introduction, we need to ensure that we have good working and pay conditions for employees in the sector, including, of course, flexibility in terms of working arrangements and rotation. This has been achieved many times, but it has to be negotiated with the parties in common, and it has to have a decent salary as a goal. Then we have to put an end to the kind of bonanza that has been revealed in the Adecco case. It is a great cross-point of thought that some municipalities, with the Right-Fremskritsparte-steered Oslo at the head, and with the needs we see in the older sector, stick with actors in the care of the elderly who have consistently lower pension schemes and partly lower salaries and tougher working conditions for employees. It's natural, of course, when foreign owners have as their target the maximum return on each krona. This is a privatisation of tasks through a system that is in the long term unsustainable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e710	There is a fairly large consensus that health and care have a major and growing need not only for labour but for competent labour. Those who have spoken before me have mentioned the wave of old age and the reform of cooperation, both of which contribute to increasing this need for skilled labour. We know a lot about this with competence, not least in the health and care sector. One thing we know a lot about is that competence is equal to quality. A new study from the KS shows that competence is also equal to price — that the emphasis on competence at all levels in the exercise of health and care professions is on improving the quality and lower price of services. These include: that we see that we have more nurturing in municipal care, with increasingly heavier and more complex diagnoses. Many people have diabetes. The ability to read the patient’s condition leads to a better picture of the patient’s disease and thus to do the right things in the past. But these patients are becoming more and more of them, which means that we need many more nurses, especially, but also health professionals. The interaction reform will also require that we have nurses with specialist training at the top in larger parts of the country, and in more municipalities than it is today. The easiest way to solve this is to ensure that the nurses who work in these municipalities today are offered continuing training. Then their workforce and their skills have to be replaced, so it really doesn't solve the problem, but at least it's a way to do it. Then I heard a polemization around whether there was an increase in nurse training or not. I am probably inclined to agree most with my colleague Olsen in relation to that question. But what's so wonderful about it, to use that term, is that here the government and the government have a gift package. It's not just a wave of old age going on, it's also a wave of young people going on. We know that many of the high-level health professionals provide high-quality education — not all, but many do — and many of the same institutions have more than two well-qualified applicants per study place. There are both students and institutions with educational quality, so it is relatively easy to increase the educational capacity of nurses, regardless of history. At least I know that in the future we can relatively easily increase the amount of nursing training without going beyond quality. Governments are involved in Health Occupational Action. She calls it a success. I'll at best call it a conditional success. It is correct that we got some more applicants, probably a little helped by instability in the financial markets around. But the problem is that most actually end before they're health professionals. We haven't started this project to get more people to start school, I assume, but to finish education. You didn't do that to an equal degree. I dare say that one of the reasons for this is that the municipalities, county councils and the state, which need health professionals in the future, do not provide apprenticeships for the same candidates to become health professionals. Then I just have to end with, because this is a municipal and county elections, to remind the Council of State and the Stortinget that in the blue county municipalities – the bourgeoisly overthrown county councils – are retired from high school on 26 p.m. It's too loud. But in labor party-driven county municipalities, the decline is even higher, at 35 pst. It may be possible to include it in the further debate on both health professionals’ training and other secondary education.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e725	I agree with those who say that this is an important debate. With the challenges we have in the future, it may not be the last time we debate this. For the Right, competence is a prerequisite for achieving the objective of good quality in healthcare and requires expertise. Employees in this sector operate a 24-hour continuous supply of highly specialised treatment, care and care. There are probably no other sectors that require so much of the employees and that contribute so much value to the proper sense of the word. It cannot therefore be reduced to just a question of the number of employees, but it must be about quality and competence. The work on the cooperation reform has shown a broad political agreement that municipal health and care services should take greater responsibility for prevention, treatment and rehabilitation in the years to come. However, there is considerable disagreement about the instruments. The Government has proposed that an increase in the transfer of resources to municipalities be assessed from year to year in budgetary context and is in favour of municipalities taking part in the hospital bill. The right has called for a concrete escalation plan to equip the municipalities with competence and capacity. We will not accept patients becoming losers in a reform where municipalities are given responsibility for tasks that they do not have to handle. If local health services are to become an attractive job, there must be a wider professional environment and a better opportunity for professional development and research. The right will invest more in skills development for employees, so that they are equipped to take greater responsibility and at the same time experience the job as a professional stimulant. We will strengthen the provision of teaching and teaching homes, and believe that there is a need for a specific focus on skills in rehabilitation, rehabilitation and care at the end of life. Despite the fact that municipal health and care services are facing increasing professional challenges, the proportion of unskilled in the sector is over 30 pst. In the treatment of the care policy notification in 2007, the Right supported an increased proportion of nurses and other health professionals in the care service, as well as a target for all staff working with patient treatment to be skilled. We realize that this is ambitious and that it's far to the goal. But for us, it is important to maintain a goal that shows that health and care services are so important and demanding tasks that expertise is a prerequisite for proper care. For example, we see that the extent of mismedication is alarmingly high, and that there are too many exemptions for medical treatment due to lack of caregivers. Increased professional competence will increase the safety of both employees and users. The requirement of professional competence also implies the recognition of these vital functions in society. In addition, such an objective will force a necessary investment in a knowledge-raising promise for health professionals. Several annual works are necessary, but we cannot count on good health and care services. We need warm hands and wise heads. The right is critical that the government continues a policy where unskilled people are charged with unqualified tasks, in the absence of professionals. This undermines the important and demanding task of caring for sick and caring people. In addition, studies show that, when care workers are highly qualified, there is actually a need for fewer. Of the carers who have now been employed, as mentioned by the Council of State, 3 000 are in fact unskilled. Norway has a sex-shared labour market, and many women with a high level of skills in the public sector are less paid than employees in similar positions. In particular, the caregivers are affected, who have been slowing down in wage developments. The right has proposed a «power of competence» for the public sector in the years to come, leading to a pay gap for the training groups. It will be a good investment to ensure recruitment and staffing, and to improve service quality, so that we are better equipped to meet the challenges ahead. In addition, there will be greater opportunities for more flexible working arrangements, such as: in the Bergen project, as also mentioned by the inter-pellant and the Council of State. It's important. We also need to increase the educational capacity of health professionals. We are hoped that the many good measures that the Council of State has also mentioned and explained will produce results. And as the council said, it's done a lot, but we can't rest on our laurels.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e746	One of the greatest injustices in our society is that the women who do some of the heaviest and most important jobs get so poorly paid for the job they do. The fight for equal pay is about justice, it's about women getting paid for the education they take. But it's also, as the interpellation is about, about the recruitment of the welfare state, because it's these ladies who run the welfare state. The interpellant is quite right that we are going to need many more in these professions in the future, and that pay and working conditions are essential to achieve it. The Equal Pay Commission pointed out that there are many reasons why we do not have equal pay in Norway: the gender-based labour market, which the previous speaker said was that women take the most leave, have the most care for children and have the main responsibility for home and part-time work. When we talk about flexibility, these are the most flexible women in the Norwegian labour market. The experience from the sector is that people get a part-time job, but they work 100 pst. or more. You can imagine that you have a day off, it's not in your turn that you're going to work, you're going to get in the car and you're going to go to the mountain or to the beach, and then the employer calls and says you have to go to work. Then you can't afford to say no, because you can't afford to be the one who's not called the next time. It's the everyday life of some of the part-time ladies in the sector. I want to commend the Minister of Health for taking an important step towards demanding that businesses reduce their part-time work. Maybe the interpellant can bring up with their colleagues in Bergen if they can do similar grips in their municipality. Part-time work is important for equal pay and it is important for working conditions in the sector. Like the trade union movement, SV wants to legislate on the right to full-time work. So for competition. I believe that the experience here shows that increased competition does not lead to increased pay. On the contrary, figures from the trade union association Sykhhemjemsetatens Trade Union in Oslo show that employees in commercial nursing homes on average earn $30,000 under municipal minimum wages. I would also like to remind you that the collective agreements with NHO Service are far worse than the collective agreements with KS, and there can be no argument for equal pay. Instead, the less skilled commercial labour force is considered to compete on price. The struggle for equal pay is not a recipe for liberalism. What we need is a strong welfare state, we need a better work sharing at home, and we need to fight against part-time work. Here the government parties and the right parties separate layers, because an active equality policy is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e761	The interpellant suggests that the age sentence in the population means that we are faced with a shortage of staff in the care sector, and that it is primarily the health professionals that will be the most deprived of it. The Directorate of Health calls this ‘Norwegian paradox’. We're training more than enough health professionals with a high level of education. The biggest defect relates to health professionals; there has been only one third of the target. I think it must be a general principle that, as a nation, we should be self-sufficient in health and care workers. We cannot rely on unethical imports of health workers from nations that need the alienated peoples themselves. To recruit young people for these jobs, we need to raise the status of health and care professionals in municipalities. Wages and salaries are a measure of increased status. We must be able to guarantee young people who choose to take part in a health care profession, full employment and not involuntary part-time. We have to be able to guarantee them an acceptable salary to live from. Likelönkamp is important for recruitment to health and care professionals. We need to make health and care positions in municipalities more attractive through a knowledge and competence lift for all professional professionals, including those who are unskilled. We need to ensure more research into the development of municipal health and care provision. Such an effort on the community health service could naturally be made in the context of the implementation of the Interaction Reform. But perhaps the most important and most basic thing to make these jobs more attractive, is not pay or research, much is also in the reputation of the profession. In order to raise the status of nursing and care professionals, we all have a responsibility. We have to stop talking about this sector. There's also a role for the media. If there are consistently negative warnings about the crisis in the care of the elderly, these workplaces are not exactly built up. The evening post today has a positively charged article on the care profession. Nursing is more than just a rump wash, is the headline. Here, both nurses and caregivers report that they feel prejudiced about the profession is a problem, but that they themselves are very happy to work in the care of the elderly. They say they think it's "a privilege to work with old people, it's so nice to talk and be with them." A necessary change is to look at the training of health professionals themselves. Until now, education has been dominated — in my view — by the practice and theory of the specialist services. It is not an incentive for more newcomers to choose to work in the care sector in the municipalities. Therefore, it is important to have more practice time in the municipal health service. It applies to both laymen, nurses and other health professionals. The specialisation of e.g. Moreover, more people need to get more focus on this because more people need to work in the community health service. That working in a nursing home has not been counted in any speciality is unfortunate. This has to change. Either health care must become a specialty of its own, or there must be a specific area of competence attached to another speciality. In a debate on recruitment to the health and care sector, there is no way of pointing out measures that can also reduce staffing needs. Better prevention could reduce the need for labour in the care sector. According to a survey by the Statistical Centre in 2006, the elderly will be able to save us better health for 90 000 annual jobs before care in 2060 in relation to the same morbidity as today. That would mean a 30-40-billion savings. kr per year. In Denmark, for example, they refer to: consistent home help for returners, and self-help assistance is the motto. Then you can't help but point out your cooperation with voluntary organizations. These have a long tradition of caring for the elderly. Activities such as elderly centres, trim groups and visiting groups mean enormously much to the quality of life and to prevent disease and reduce the need for care. In order to reduce the pressure on health and care workers in the future, we rely on increased cooperation between the public and non-profit sector. Similarly, we also need to exploit the potential of family-based care. Better provision of care combined with good access to home services, unloading places, day care and other activities could delay the provision of an institution and reduce the need for care and care from the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e778	We have a great crowd of older people who live well and long, and more will be in the future. Many will eventually need services in their everyday lives, so that they can continue to live independently and independently, and with meaning. But we have huge challenges ahead of us in providing enough health professionals in the years to come, so that we can do just that. That is why it is important that we have regular debates like this one we have today, and I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing the matter. When the committee recently visited Diakonhememets Hospital and College here in Oslo, we were told that it is difficult to recruit and retain qualified staff to work with sick elderly people, especially in the municipal health service. With the increased tasks the municipalities will have in the future, we also need more competence staff on the university side, as also the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli was in. It will be essential that the people we recruit are good at what they're going to do. Once someone's recruited, we have to keep them and give them room for further development. Research shows that the possibilities of professional development and of working professionally and systematically with the quality of services are crucial for recruitment. Many universities are ready to ensure professional development. In the latest supervisory communication from the Health Inspectorate on the social and health services of municipalities to the elderly, the conclusion is, ‘Requirements with weak governance’. Identifying, investigating and providing quality services and in sufficient quantities failures. Management is not concerned with ensuring that employees have sufficient competence, services are poorly planned and organised, so that the framework conditions enable employees to provide adequate services. In other areas of the report too, there is a lack of management and competence in the care of the elderly. This is serious. The Diakon home university, together with Lovisenberg diakonale universitet, has focused on a master's programme focusing on providing students with the competence to initiate, manage and implement quality projects in practice. They offer the country’s only multi-disciplinary health master’s programme, which focuses only on health care for the elderly. This must be in the middle of the blink, as I see it. However, at the end of the application period a year ago, they had 68 applicants, and 36 were offered a place. When the study was going to start, there were only 24 students of the 36 who had a place. In the course of the harvest, another ten disappeared. What happened? A survey among those who refused showed that the reasons were economics, high study fees and lack of organisation and leave from the employer. For higher education institutions, this investment means an investment over several years without income due to a lack of basic funding for master-level studies. However, it is also due to the fact that the funding scheme with results-based grants for the teaching component is lagging behind for several years. This means that, when the study goes, colleges have to charge high tuition fees. Schemes are lacking both in the health and care sectors and in the education sector to enable us to build skills and ensure that they become part of the care of the elderly. In particular, local authorities lack schemes to support continuing and continuing training, not least at master level. There are also no posts and structures when the candidates come back, and the municipalities are thus pushed to short-term. I think all of this is very serious, and I hope the Council of State can take this back and see if it is possible to find solutions to these issues too, i.e. just to sum up: both the organisation and the leave arrangements of the employers in the municipalities are missing. We have a funding system that lacks basic funding, and we also have a system where the grant comes after, while that's when the study goes, the schools need funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e802	Indeed, it is one of the absolute greatest challenges of the welfare state Per Arne Olsen has addressed in his interpellation: how are we going to meet the major challenges we face in the healthcare sector, in the care sector, in the next 10-20 years, because the needs are going to increase radically? This has, of course, been discussed extensively by the Stortinget in the context of the treatment of the cooperation reform, and it will also be on the agenda several times in the future, not least when the Education and Training Communication for Welfare Services comes during this year. And of course it's going to be about education. We know that today's capacity in the education sector only lasts a few more years, it needs to be increased, and it needs to be increased considerably. So the further debate on future education is going to be about increased capacity at all stages and also about the quality and facility of education, because there is going to be a need for professionals who can work in the municipal sector, in the health sector in the municipal sector and in the healthcare sector in the care sector. That is the line we have pointed out when we have dealt with the Reform of Cooperation. So both content, quality and capacity will have to be central to the need for education in the coming years. Then, of course, there will also be a call for health care in the years to come to have an attractive working relationship that makes it attractive for young people in the future to work in the health sector. Of course, it's not going to be that way that we can decide who will work there. The health system must appear attractive. There must be good employment pay, but not least we must also get radical action on this with involuntary part-time work. I look at reports and surveys that Norway is the top in terms of involuntary part-time in relation to the Scandinavian countries, and that is not the way we can do it. That is why I am very pleased with the steps taken by the Minister for Health towards health businesses: clear notice that the proportion of involuntary part-time must decrease. The same message must also go to the municipal sector, in order to offer young workers half and quarter jobs will not be the way to solve future challenges. So for my main score. The prescription representative Per Arne Olsen wrote here in his post when he spoke about dynamics and flexibility, was really talking about increased use of tenders and increased use of competitive outsourcing in the care and care sectors. There is nothing we are unknown about in this country. It has been tried and applied in many areas. What we know about it is that competitive outsourcing and tenders are about pushing prices down. The costs to be reduced are the compensation of employees, the compensation of employees. What we know there is that there are pension schemes and working hours. So it's a prescription that creates worse relationships and increased pressure on health care employees in the future. It's not a medicine and prescription that SV will prescribe. We are quite sure that investing in a strong public health service in municipalities, in municipal health services, is improving working conditions, reducing the use of involuntary part-time. That's what we have to do, and that's what we have to bet on in the years to come. There are several times used words as flexibility, that it is too rigid and for the square as it works in the public sector. I guess you also think about the Working Environment Act. What we know, and what's the reality, is that the Working Environment Act as it is designed provides room for significant use of flexibility where necessary. So arguing or attacking the public sector and public health services about being too flexible is a direct mistake. You have the flexibility you need. However, the focus on privatisation, on increasing the use of tenders in this sector, is not the solution to the challenge of the future in the health sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e815	To start with the last post: It was no surprise that the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen from SV did not share my views on what prescription to use – it is probably not today’s greatest surprise, possibly. With regard to SV’s desire to invest more in the public sector, the Progress Party does not disagree with it, but the public sector in care and care had not gone around without private providers. We had to close a hospital department in Norway if we were not to use temporary workers. We had to close a department in a nursing home in Norway if we were not to use temporary workers. So we're actually dependent on both, and it's possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time. The government we have today is not least an active user of tendering processes. Several of us who are in this room have been outside this Stortinget and have accepted demonstration trains after demonstration trains by both non-profit institutions and other organisations that have lost tendering processes, which today's government has published via their health companies and mission documents. What's important here is to have an open mind and not just an open mouth when we look at the challenges we face in this sector. That's why I'm very happy that the Council of State was more attentive and nuanced, that she said she wanted to look at the test system that you have in Bergen, with an open mind – where the results are actually very good. The result is that you get more full-time jobs, and you've got the quality up. The patients are more satisfied, and the employees are more satisfied. That is exactly why I have noticed that the Council of State is willing to take it further – and that should be lacking. I appreciated that. I must admit that the contribution to the representative, Tove Karoline Knutsen, was also good. We share our views on the challenges we face, but the small rhetorical journey into Adecco seems to me to be a derailment that the debate was not really served. It's relatively typical that the Adecco case, which we've also taken a great distance from, is mentioned, without mentioning any of the breaches that occur in the public sector, and with the small rhetorical angle finally that this is a company run by foreign owners. For the sake of information, the Norwegian oil fund is one of the largest owners of this company, so it is probably some Norwegian owner as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e828	The announcement of welfare education, which, as far as I know, is coming during the year, and which is being worked on in the Ministry of Knowledge, is particularly important in forming forecasts, looking at education and also the content of education in the future. It also actively participates in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. We have great expectations of the important message that, as I said, is so important to our sector. Then I just want to say, but maybe I misunderstood the representative, Mr. Davøy, who said that there were not so many different attempts when it came to getting the recruiter up, that that's not right. In the Competence Plan 2015, we use 266 million in the current year. kr. There's also some joyous numbers here. We've managed to recruit. We've managed to train unskilled people in the sector, because here we have to think about three things. We have to think about recruiting new people, we have to provide skills and research, and we have to know how to get more people, and why there are people going out. Then we also have to recruit those who are in the sector today. We know that some who have come to Norway from other countries, which have a different background, can also benefit from the kind of continuing training that we can provide in the Competence Plan. I very much agree with those who say that the combination of e.g. working in nursing homes, home care and home care are important. In the municipality of Tromsø, I saw a very interesting project where you worked directly with recruiting in high school from the 10th grade – perhaps students who were a bit of a school vacation, and who would like to combine working in a nursing home with taking health education. It is positive for the nursing homes, who get recruitment both on weekends and on holidays, but also get more young people into this sector. Then I have to say that I share a lot of Geir-Ketil Hansen's views on challenges in this area of outsourcing in the care sector. It's not just the examples we've seen, it's not possible to create a market in this sector where you do it for something other than to make money – and that's not what we deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e841	Then there's case no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e855	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3050]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e873	No one has asked for the floor. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e881	That's why the size is supposed to be moaning.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e889	In the course of the debate, three proposals have been put forward, the proposals No. 1-3, from Åge Starheim on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the guidelines are amended so that non-recreational dwellings could also be classified as a home number two with equivalent rights to facilities.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the replacement of current owner-occupancy grant schemes for persons with disabilities by a State rights-based scheme where the individual needs to be reduced in relation to the function that is crucial for the actions to be implemented. The scheme must provide for the financing of the necessary actions.’.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asked to make the provisional regulation FOR-2004-09-07-1248 a permanent arrangement.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e928	In the course of the debate, two proposals have been put forward, the proposals No. 1 and 2, from Svein Harberg on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to promote the issue of senior measures in the school sector.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to contribute financially to the establishment of concrete senior measures in the school sector, thus helping to increase the number of teachers in the profession.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e958	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e966	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e974	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Progress Party at its meeting on 15 March 2011: ‘The government is asked to submit a legislative proposal to allow for exhaustive child care certificates to be required of support contacts and others that have similar regular and close contact with children.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-22.ana.ud1126e997	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
