ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e36	A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Laila Davay on leave on 15 and 16 November, and from the representatives of Gina Knutson Barstad, Steinar Gullvåg, Svein Roald Hansen, Irene Johansen and Harald T. Nesvik on leave from 14 November to 16 November – all to attend meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committees in Geneva and Brussels from the representative of Dagfinn Højbrätten on leave from 15 November to 18 November for participation, as chairman of the GAVI vaccine fund, in meetings of Dhaka, Bangladesh Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first representative of the state of Hordaland, Filip Rygg, currently has parental leave and is therefore prevented from meeting in the Stortinge under the authority of the representative Laila Davøy. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the period of leave as follows: For the province of Hordaland: Aslaug Hellesøy and Einar Horvei 15 and 16 November For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Jon Georg Dale 15 and 16 November For Rogaland County: Kjell Arvid Svendsen 15-18. November For the Westfold counties: Heidi Ørnlo 15 and 16 November For Eastfold counties: Stein Erik Lauvås and Kari Agerup 15 and 16 November – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The representative, Mr Halleland, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e113	I want to make a proposal on behalf of the big business representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself on the freedom to decide whether a tax bubble is a matter of fact.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e118	The representative, Per Arne Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e121	On behalf of Bent Höie, Laila Davøy, Trine Skei Grande and myself, I want to propose measures to ensure quality and patient safety during the conversion process at Oslo University Hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e126	The representative, Solvency Horne, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e129	On behalf of Ib Thomsen, Øyvind Korsberg, Karin S. Woldseth and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the follow-up to the Stortinge's intention to contribute to children.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e134	The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e137	On behalf of the representatives Per Roar Bredvold, Torgeir Tåldal, Arne Sortevik, Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Oskar J. Grimstad and myself, I am delighted to propose a postponement of the regulation on specific requirements for aquaculture-related activities in Hardangerfjorden.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e143	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e157	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 430]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e173	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e182	The theme here today is the calculation of grants for private schools, also known as in-house schools. This is a topic that some of us in the committee have been challenged on many occasions, in fact, during the two years we have worked in the committee – often in the form of panel debates. A main point of departure from private schools has been that the right under the Private School Act to these schools receive an operating grant equal to 85 pst. by the government grant basis, has been eroded in recent years. Their requirement is therefore that the government should make the 85 pst rule real. It is precisely this debate that the three speakers from the Right are addressing in their draft representative. They believe that the Storting should ask the Government to promote a case for the Storing in which the criteria for grants to these schools are reviewed. The aim, therefore, is, according to the proposers: ‘... to ensure that these are in fact in line with the intention of the Storting decision.’ The opinion unanimously states that private schools are an important grant or entry in School-Norway and that the 85 pst rule applies. The Committee further notes that it has registered that private schools appear to be complex but at the same time records that the government and the directorate have therefore looked at the calculation models and legislation in dialogue with private schools in a number of ways. The Committee also states that close contact between the parties – in that way – is important in this matter, i.e. the schools on the one hand, and the government and the directorate on the other, and that it is of the utmost importance for everyone that we have legislation that is as simple as possible, and not as much as possible agreed upon in this case. So far there's unanimity in the committee, but then we separate layers. The majority, the Labour Party, SV and the Centre, believe that it is precisely through closer dialogue that this can be resolved, that one can have a more unified understanding of how this legislation is meant and how it should be practised. We notice that the department has so far been and will still clearly be concerned with filling the law's intention and putting in place a practice then. On the other hand, the members of the Committee from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that a capital grant should be reintroduced to compensate for existing model weaknesses, such as weakness. may have to do with COSTRA, as it is formulated from the four batches. The Party underlines in a special note, inter alia: that it is a human right to choose schools other than those of the public, and finds it so strange that there is no public funding in place that enables parents and young people to choose these schools without being dependent on the economy of their parents or overburdening the economy of their parents. Then both the Christian People's Party and the Left have a special remark that points out that the two parties, among other things, used to be. in the 2011 budget, it has proposed that such a capital grant be put back in place again. I therefore hope that I have given a balanced presentation of the committee position and thus prepared the basis for a good debate now afterwards. Then I will conclude by recommending the Committee's recommendation that the proposal by the three Right-wing Representatives for a review of the basis for the calculation of the subsidy to incubators should not be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e211	The reason why the Progress Party supports this proposal is that we believe it is important to ensure good and predictable financial framework conditions for primary schools, and we would prefer to equate these schools financially with public schools. But now it's once so that it's the power that comes, and it thinks that 85 pst. grants calculated on the basis of COSTRA numbers are to be provided for these schools in grants. In addition, government parties are afraid that rent and capital subsidies to schools can lead to private capital being built up by the owners of primary schools. If it's so much to be afraid of, it's a completely different matter. But the argument that some private people can use public money is easily recognizable. This is a copy of the debate on grants to private kindergartens. The Minister of Knowledge has now come up with a solution to ensure that private kindergarten owners do not run away and make up the taxpayers’ money. It should not be more difficult to introduce the same principle to colleges. When it is true that it is, among other things, are the KOSTRA figures on the basis of which the grant is calculated, it has been found in many cases that municipalities do not practice the same procedures for reporting actual expenditure. Thus, the basis of calculation may still be rather uncertain. Several studies are also available, including: one made by Multiconsult, which shows that the grant received by the schools today does not meet the fixed percentage of the actual costs of public schools. We believe this in the Progress Party is three good reasons for reviewing the eligibility criteria. In addition, we can address a lot of other disadvantages and demands that these schools have and that public schools are releasing. For example, when errors and deficiencies of a different nature are discovered at a municipal school, the municipality has the full opportunity to grant itself a derogation in order to avoid rectifying them. In my knowledge and experience, this possibility of dispensing standing unused does not become a reality. The reason the municipalities give themselves a derogation may be that they do not have or can afford to repair faults and deficiencies or to provide for the improvement of indoor climate. In the case of private schools, there is rarely and never a dispensation. These schools, on the other hand, are threatened by the closure of the school if no remedial action is taken at a fixed time limit. There is also no equivalent treatment when primary schools lose State grants if a student is away from school for more than 20 days — public schools lose zero. That this creates great challenges for the colleges in creating good offers for their students and in addition putting extra pressure on the employees, says themselves. On 26 October, representatives of the KUF took part in a debate organised in connection with a school leadership conference organised by the Christian Union of Free Schools. In this context, it was again argued that the main issue for the free schools in relation to the authorities is the inclusion of expenditure on rents and buildings in the subsidy base. Many examples were given of how the poor economy went beyond the students. A principal stated: It is difficult to explain to my students that politicians don’t think their school is equivalent to the public school. In this case, there is unison agreement as to the importance of these schools, both in terms of freedom of choice and human rights law and as a major complement to public school. If this is the opinion of all the parties, but will not, however, consider whether the criteria for grants, which are seriously questioned as to the basis for the calculation of grants, are correct, in addition to all the other requirements and disadvantages of the colleges, it is not unreasonable that the words of respect for human rights and that the schools are an important complement to the public school are only perceived as fine words. Schools cannot pay rent and maintenance and take care of a good school with good words. It just doesn't last. I am thus promoting the minority proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e237	The representative Bente Thorsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e240	The proposal of the Right is intended to amend the grant to what the proposers call incubators. The rapporteur has explained in an excellent way why we do not support this proposal. So the right hand side is going to change the grant to fresh schools, and it could be tempting to say that we don't know what kind of schools it's about, but since we've added the goodwill and have quite good memory, let's do it for this time. The right has such a dogmatic approach to the theme that they are not even able to use the correct name of the school team to propose changes to the grant criteria. We also heard that from the representative of Thorsen here. When we decided to freeze the law on these schools in 2005, we went back to the concept of private schools, which this school has been called since the morning. I wonder why the right does not want to use the word 'private'. Are they ashamed that in some schools there are private actors and private money? And there is reason to wonder whether the opposition believes that none of what is done with public money in this country is free. Does the opposition believe that public schools are not free? Do children here have less free training than children in private schools? The Private School Act imposes requirements on the content and assessment of training both in private schools and in joint schools. They must follow the intentions of the curriculum and of the promise of knowledge. In educationally alternative schools, alternative pedagogics must naturally be seen in the curriculum. But there's nothing in the way that a teacher in common school can't use alternative pedagogics as long as he or she reaches the goal of learning in the different disciplines. This teacher is as free as a teacher in a private school. The only freedom you have by going to a private school is being free from public school. What is freedom for the Right? Is it that the rich are free to pay taxes, that someone is free to send their children for offers that the public makes and is willing to cover, as kindergartens, that some fathers are free from being at home with their children, that you are free from the community? We in the Workers' Party are more concerned with what we should have freedom, such as the freedom to exercise our outlook on life, the freedom to believe in the god we want, and the freedom to fall in love with whom we want, the freedom to believe in a political ideology and – not least – the freedom to get an education completely independent of the background, the income of parents and the level of education. The right-hand side has been strangely absent in this debate since 2009. There has been no debate about the large release of private schools such as Right and Clement in 2001. Maybe they've realized that there's actually a lot of good with the Norwegian public high school. In the light of July 22, it is even more important than before that we are building up the community in and through the public school, and not building it down like a public release of private schools would have done. Then everyone goes to the same school, in the same classroom completely independent of economics, background, faith, skin color and lay. This is very important for us to get an understanding of, respect for, and knowledge of each other's culture. It is quite satisfactory, and it is in its place to comment, that after examining this matter in the Committee, the proposal has been worded differently. Now the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Advance Party are also involved, and they want to have a review of the grant criteria for private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e259	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for the work he has done and for a thorough review of the matter. However, I have to admit that I am very disappointed when we are dealing with this matter today. I know I'm not alone in that either, because there are many in the management of the private schools who, after debates at both the Network for Private Colleges, the Forum for Vocational Schools and the Association of Christian Free Schools, were optimistic and expected that there was now a majority on the Stortinget who would look at the funding again. That hope is now about to be clubbed down, literally. It has been exciting to take part in these debates. What I have experienced is that there has been a constructive dialogue in which representatives of the school team have raised concrete examples from everyday life into the debate. In this way, they have made clear the differences in current rules and funding arrangements. There is no concealment that the debate has very often ended in a debate on funding. I would therefore like to thank the committee leader, Marianne Aasen, for the fact that, on the last occasion now in October at the meeting of the Christian Free Schools Association, she took the opportunity to point out that the private schools are part of the Norwegian school, and that it is therefore important to focus attention on quality, learning outcomes and non-response in private schools as well. I also think it was important for the assembly that the Aasen on the same occasion admitted that the private ones were probably forgotten in many contexts. This she promised to take seriously and correct. We're looking forward to this. So back to funding. There is no doubt that it is a major challenge for private schools to provide educational services based on the same requirements as the public school has, but with strongly reduced funding. The free school agreement concluded that the funding would be 85 pst. of what the public schools receive. The reality is that this is far lower. Firstly, the reporting to KOSTRA, which is to form the basis for the allocation, is by no means quality assurance. This is one of several challenges identified in a new report that has gone through all aspects of school funding. The reporting procedures of the municipalities do not give a consistent and correct picture and thus form the whole basis for the grant error. Management, operation and maintenance of school buildings are handled and reported differently in municipalities. Operation of the building stock is a major cost, and when this basis appears to have major shortcomings, it is important to address it. In addition, private schools have the same requirements for areas and locations as public schools, but rental costs or capital costs on construction are not included. This is probably the most burdensome difference in funding, and seems quite unreasonable. When one knows the costs of investing in premises, it is easy to understand that the lack of support for this will be a challenge in ensuring the quality of the offer. I must say that I have also heard that representatives of the government parties have repeatedly stated that they understand that this is going to be difficult, and have promised to look at this. Some have made promises of a thorough review, and others have made clear that they were on the verge of this challenge. It was precisely in the light of such opinions that we promoted this proposal to look at the basis of the grant – we perceived that there was a majority on the Stortinget for it. That's where we were wrong! On the right, there is a need for a change here, for quality assurance of the reporting to KOSTRA, and for compensation for rent or capital costs. The base must be common when 85 pst. grants shall be calculated! I'm not in doubt, and respect, that some of the government parties are very sceptical about setting up private education services. What I cannot understand, however, is that the schools that are already approved, which are part of the Norwegian school, and which are to deliver an offer to our children and young people, are to be punished through a financial framework that is a challenge to the quality of education. As a father said, Isn't my children as much worth? I pay the same amount in taxes! Why do I have to pay extra? Yes, I am very disappointed today. Not because the Right has a proposal that cannot be accepted – with the current government we are used to it – but because representatives in the Chamber do not stand for what they have said, and therefore are not willing to take the private schools seriously. I am disappointed because I know that we are now discussing schools that put a lot of effort into caring for their students, who provide extra for those who need extra attention and help, and who deliver good results. These schools still have to wait for a government change to get help. We could have helped them now!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e276	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough and good review and also for having an open and listening attitude on the matter. For those of us who were at the Conference of Christian Free Schools at Gardermoen a few weeks ago, this topic has already been thoroughly debated. To Ljunggren's posts, I have to make it clear that these are schools regulated by the Private School Act, but we can't decide what the schools should call themselves. They themselves use the terms that are regulated under the Private School Act. That's why I think you put a little bit more ideology into this than what's meant in the case. I have to say that I am beginning to rejoice at the way in which free school matters are mainly being debated now, after the conciliation that was concluded. Before when there was a private school case, a free school case, on the agenda, we threw ourselves into each of our trenches and waged some sort of ideological war without roots in reality. Now we're discussing the real situation of schools in a way that makes us take the situation of high school seriously. Someone who has been involved in these debates for several years is pleased. So to the matter: lack of support for rent and capital expenditure has led to an economic pressure situation for many schools. In fact, it is so dramatic in many places that it has been implemented — and will be implemented — cancellations and cuts. Free schools have a claim that the money they get will benefit the students. I wish there was a similar demand for the state budget, because the lack of appropriations in this field, which leads to redundancies and cuts, is not for the benefit of the individual student. That's what this case is about. Free schools have limited income opportunities to compensate for the lack of appropriations. Much happens through the effort of parents and individuals, bazaars, collections, they participate in the race, but there is a limit to how much you can collect at your own school. Therefore, equal treatment is such an incredibly important principle. It's not hard to understand that when the bias gets too big, it feels unfair. We have pointed out in all our alternative budgets that the reintroduction of capital grants, household rent subsidies, will be a crucial step in ensuring equal treatment of public schools and in health schools. The reintroduction of capital grants has also been a priority requirement on the part of organisations, in addition to the desire for depreciation to be included in the school grant base and an increase in the grant rate. There are several ways to view this setting. It is possible to consider this as if the government parties do not want to see the unreasonable situation of primary schools and therefore will not do anything. However, I choose to look at the small lights in this setting as a first step on the way to a solution. The position in the setting has some positive sentences that actually make me think that they are approaching a greater understanding of the difficult situation of many fresh coals: All members of the Committee support, in principle, the fact that all private schools in the law are supplementary and grants to public schools, without reservation. The Committee understands that private school organisations find the support schemes complicated and refers to a number of investigations that have been carried out. In addition, I heard today that Bente Thorsen of the Advancement Party signaled that they might not be able to make any profit in this school battle. These are positive signals in the right direction. I miss an understanding of concrete shortcomings in the system. I miss that depreciation should be operating expenses. I also disagree with the government parties in the resistance to any building of capital or property in the schools. The problem is that schools must have houses and that not all constructions and grants are capital building. Here a much more nuanced limit could have been drawn with advantage. We're going to continue the fight for an even greater understanding and for equal treatment. The organizations and the schools now tell us that they think it's nice with great understanding, they think it's nice to understand the situation, but they can't put these good things in the bank, and that's where the red numbers are shown when they're going to get the budgets in the port. I hope that, after this debate, we have come to a greater understanding, and that we are approaching steps forward, so that we do not have to wait for a change of government until we get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e311	I think the representative Dagrun Eriksen has cleared up a bit in the discussion. There are actually two things we're discussing in this setting. Our starting point is that it is important that private schools have good and predictable framework conditions. There is broad political consensus that the calculation models for grants to private schools should reflect, as far as possible, public school expenditure. Private schools are entitled under the Private School Act to operating grants equivalent to 85 pst. by the grant basis. The remaining 15 pst. schools may charge as school fees. For schools with disabled pupils, the state grant is 100 pst. It's part of this discussion that you get the right subsidy based on the rules you actually have. There has been a repetition, and the Ministry and the Directorate have discussed this with the private schools for many rounds in order to find the best possible basis. It is true, as many have noted, that the calculations of the operating grant are based on the COSTRA figures. Although the KOSTRA numbers aren't collected for that purpose, it's the best basis we have. Then we have to try to discuss two things. One is the criteria to be used for the reporting of municipalities to KOSTRA, which we use in a wide variety of contexts, and which criteria will form the basis for the calculation of the grant to the private schools. Let me just go through COSTRA first. It is a tool primarily to provide a better basis for analysis, planning and governance in municipalities and counties and to provide a basis for assessing whether national targets are met. Since this is the best starting point for calculating the grant base for private schools, we must at the same time be aware that this is not the purpose of collecting the KOSTRA information. I do not see now that there is a basis for starting an overall review of the KOSTRA reporting in the light of private schools. However, if there is information that suggests changes in the reporting to KOSTRA, we need to address it in the most appropriate way – at the end of the day with the Ministry of Local Affairs, which is responsible for how this is collected. The need to review the grant model for the different schools is regularly assessed. As regards what will form the basis for calculating grants to private schools, the proposers indicate that the costs of premises are not included in the grant basis. Operating costs for the ongoing maintenance of premises and rental costs are included in the grant base. The Committee points out that questions have been raised as to whether all operating costs for school buildings are actually reflected in operating costs. In addition, the Committee notes that private school organisations have pointed out that the lack of maintenance at public schools leads to the final rehabilitation of schools, without showing them as operating costs but as investment costs. Until then, the current expenditure of the municipal sector on schools is reflected in the subsidy base, including the expenditure incurred by the municipal sector for its maintenance. The Ministry has recently met with the Free Schools Contact Forum on a report by Multiconsult on the operating costs of school premises based on KOSTRA. The Ministry is in dialogue with the contact forum on follow-up to the report, and the contact forum has made a written contribution to the Ministry. The Ministry will process and evaluate the recordings in the usual way. But I agree with the majority of the committee in the second part of this debate, and that is the discussion as to whether a capital grant should also be introduced to private schools. I agree with the majority of the Committee that investment costs for school buildings should not be included in the grant basis, and that a capital grant should not be introduced to private schools, based on the arguments surrounding this, that we are then in a situation where, of course, government grants for construction are owned by someone else. This is a politically tidy debate. I'm prepared to be in good dialogue with the private schools. We've made a lot of changes. We shall follow this closely with regard to compliance with the rules on operating grants. The discussion on whether to introduce a capital grant to private schools, which in the next moment means that the government is funding a building of wealth in the building values, is another discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e332	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e335	The Council of State states that there is a great deal of consensus that we need to find the same basis for calculating the 85 percent. Some of the things that obviously aren't equal are the treatment of the 20-day rule. The fact that students who often require a lot of resources from school, at the moment they have been away from school for more than 20 days, but still go to school, do not trigger grants. Does the Council of State think this is a fair way of dealing with the schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e341	In the case of grants for the operation of private schools, the number of students going there is taken into account. I think the way we've come up with this is satisfactory. But I see some issues in the views that the private schools take with us on this, not least in the light of the drop-out debate we have in the conduct of secondary education. But so far I believe that we have come up with a reasonably balanced solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e346	I understand that this is an ideological principle on the part of the government. When we had pure commercial actors, I understand the scepticism of supporting private construction, because it was people with financial power, with capital and background, who could hold back with buildings. The situation today is that those behind these schools are not financial drivers. There are people who have collected money, they have lotteries, they have hard work, and they do everything in their power to make these buildings fit for the students. Now very many of these buildings really start to need investment, the need for renewal and the need to comply with the Work Environment Act, which we have adopted for the students. My challenge to the government council is: how are they going to do it when they don't come under the interest-free loan scheme, because it's used up by the municipalities themselves? Is there any solution, so that we can also help these students get good construction?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e351	I am aware that many people who run private schools are doing considerable work in maintenance and through hard work – are just making sure that the premises are in good condition. It could also be that we now stand at a time gap, because part of those who started private schools did it with some capital in their backs, for example. the collection of non-governmental organisations or religious organisations, and their magnificence is a little behind them. Nevertheless, these are private owners who are on a significant, valuable building stock, and it is not reasonable for the government to build up through grants to increase the housing stock in value. Therefore, I do not have a proposal for a change in how to look at capital grants on this. I also believe that in principle it is the responsibility of private schools to ensure that their buildings are in good condition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e356	I have a question for the Council of State in connection with public schools being able to exempt from construction requirements. Dispensing results in a reduction in the amount of the grant granted to the upper secondary schools because it is pushed on. It's part of the calculation basis. Does the Council of State feel that this is reasonable? Or is there something that the Council of State will do about, so that it is included in the calculation basis for what the municipalities themselves exempt from?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e361	I believe my main answer to this is that the local authorities' derogations in this area should be considerably reduced, because we demand what is to be the quality of building stock also in municipal schools or municipal schools owned by local authorities. Although we see joyous progress in very many municipal school buildings and municipal school buildings, we want to keep up the pressure to continue their rehabilitation and maintenance and repair. So my answer to this is that we want to increase the pressure for schools not to get exemptions even when they're municipal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e368	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e373	I could now have had an ideological contribution to the importance of the common school in an increasingly multicultural society or an ideological contribution to capital grants. But the torment of the election that I had from my place was either to click on the 'Depart from speaking time' button or to thank you for the debate. I chose the last one: thank you for the debate. I liked the Right proposal very much when it came in its time, because there was a proposal that said: Let's take a closer look at the legislation and the models that are in use. Then the distance is very small from that question to the attitude that, among other things. The Council of State signals here today, that it is important to constantly try to make this work as fully as possible and intelligible as possible, and has been told that this will build up under the 85 pst intention. I think the debate here shows very clearly that this is not an ideological debate for and against private schools – private schools to some extent have come to stay, and it helps to make School-Norway more colorful. It's primarily a computational technical challenge, and then we have a slightly different attitude to how we're going to meet that challenge. It's very important that we don't over and over again, two or three times a year, meet debates of the kind: here's a bunch of schools that don't fully understand what kind of computational models are in use, don't fully understand the practice that's used in directorates and departments. I am convinced that the directorate and department think it is equally frustrating that private schools do not fully understand what kind of thinking and what kind of practice is underlying on their part. Because it's right, as the Council says, that there's not a discussion here whether we should include rent or take into account maintenance costs. We have a model where it's supposed to be taken into account, but then we can discuss how this works in practice. I think those who are now in favour of capital grants, perhaps should be a little skeptical about the debate we now have about kindergartens, because it seems that everyone agrees that it is important to put in place a law that ensures you against an unfortunate accumulation of capital or an unfortunate dividend policy. Then it's okay that we initially have 100 pst here. ideal actors, but when we think of legislation and in principle, we also need a law that ensures us against any more traditional, commercial actors in this field, such as. in the kindergarten field.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e384	I am pleased with the clarification and the choice that Aksel Hagen made that this is not an ideological debate, because that is definitely not what it is. This is a debate on the financing of some existing schools, which are part of the Norwegian school. That's where we've chosen to keep focus. It is also pointed out in the majority opinion that there has been a lot of dialogue between the department and the school team and that one hopes that the challenge can be solved in future dialogue. The challenge is that the party in the case, that is, the school team, has repeatedly taken up the same things, but has not got through to it. When they do not reach and it still seems to be a challenge, it is quite natural for us to address it to political treatment. There is, of course, just the lack of results in relation to the long dialogue that means that we are now going to promise it political treatment. We had hoped that everyone would agree that we should go through this thoroughly, but that won't be the case. I have to say I was a little surprised that the Council of State totally avoided answering my question about the 20-day rule. There wasn't one word in the Council's answer about what I asked for, and I wonder what it's signs of. Is it simply that this isn't far ahead of us or there's not enough knowledge about it? Or does that not understand that this is an unfair matter? Or is it so obviously unfair that someone doesn't want to answer that? I was quite provoked by the fact that the Council of State did not want to answer that question, which is, therefore, this type of school goes on and on and on and on, and which is obviously unfair. Finally, with grants and capital building: We in the Right also think it would be exciting to look at a model similar to the one now launched for kindergartens and the private kindergartens. Of course, we expect that the same focus on what the money is spent on, and that it is for the best for children and young people, also applies to public schools and public kindergartens. But the kind of attention on how the grants are used is very good, and we can definitely recommend that in this context as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e395	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 430]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e411	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e420	In about an hour today, November 11, it's exactly 93 years since World War I ended. But when we've been referring to the war in Norway for decades, there's another war we've been talking about. For several generations of the North, World War II has been so important that it has been completely unnecessary to specify which war we have referred to. Hopefully, we will never again experience in Norway being occupied and oppressed by foreign military forces. But those who experienced war and occupation are gradually getting fewer, and if not so many years, those who themselves actively participated and put themselves at risk during the war will be gone. Thus, it is in many ways both more important and more difficult to maintain knowledge and learn from the Second World War in the future. The Second World War is the most dramatic, devastating and extensive conflict the world has seen. The war also became a settlement between ideologies and a kind of struggle of life and death between good and evil forces. That's why World War II also became a turning point in the history of human civilization, because in many ways a new world order was created built on the ruins of war. We got the United Nations and many other international institutions to ensure cooperation and peace, but we also got the first court settlement in history where war criminals were convicted and important legal principles were crushed for the first time. The UN basis, the Declaration of Human Rights, became possible because the war had broken Nazism and its anti-human ideology. So the war, that is, World War II, is not just a war among many. Knowledge of the war is essential for understanding the world today. Lessons from the war are important to combat extremism and human contempt, even today. Norway was not the hardest hit by World War II, but many Nordics sacrificed their lives both at home and abroad. As a group, our seafarers were the hardest hit. The Norwegian merchant fleet, one of the world’s largest, was Norway’s largest contribution to alliert war effort and victory. The Norwegian ships were vital to bring supplies from the United States to England and the Soviet Union. Several thousand Norwegian seafarers lost their lives during these dangerous transports. Those who survived experienced coming home to a free Norway where they often encountered little understanding of trauma and mental damage as a result of what they had experienced. Unfortunately, the post-war period was also shattered by the fact that they did not receive the economic benefits they had been promised before the Stortinget decided to do so in 1972. So many years later, it is natural that the cause of the military sailors is still engaged. I therefore think it is commendable of the Progress Party to show commitment to spreading knowledge about the war and the ropes of war to today's school students. However, the draft representative that we are discussing today unfortunately does not provide an appropriate solution to the challenges associated with this. The intervention of the government and the ‘care for the development of teaching materials’ on the efforts of the military sailors is not the way to go. In the school, it is such that adultering and government adopts curricula and objectives, various actors produce educational materials, schools choose among them and implement the teaching. This applies to all subjects and to all themes. Then it would be illogical to think that there would be one exception for only one topic, as the Progress Party suggests in this case. The Government is therefore the wrong one to respond to the wishes of the Progress Party, and the other parties cannot therefore support the proposal. However, on behalf of the Right, I would like to stress that this is an important topic we are talking about, and it is important that schools use information and learning materials that exist and develop good teaching arrangements on as well as the efforts of the other world wars and the military sailors. In this field, as in many others, it is important to stimulate schools to cooperate with actors who can contribute. They exist, for example. museums, organisations and individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e435	Norway and the sea will remain inextricably linked. The mysticism and the possibilities that lie out in the blue dunes have always been called in the Norwegian folkeschela. "He looked out at the bare sea; there was a musket to lay on; but there was fish playing down in the cave, and the body he wanted to see." This is what the poem of Ivar Aasen calls the simple title ‘Northman’. On the other hand, after Norwegian shipowners were unable to switch from sail to steam, we were only on when we went to diesel. Thus, the Norwegian fleet was one of the world's largest and most modern in the years before the outbreak of World War II. More than 30,000 Northmen stood ready on Norwegian ships when the war broke out. This meant that the battle for these ships was only in progress 24 hours after the illegal Quisling government had taken over the power of Norway. It sent out a radio message that Norwegian ships would return to Norwegian ports. All military activity over time depends on being able to maintain their supply lines. The Allies knew that, and the Germans knew that, as I always learned from Grandma that it was hot. Without the Norwegian fleet, without Norwegian sailors, the ropes of war, it is difficult to imagine that you could win the war. The Norwegian government operated during the war Nortraship, which was then the world’s largest shipping company and counted over 1,000 ships. Even before Norway joined the war, 394 seafarers had lost their lives. It was tough thanks, but they knew what they were going to, those who were on board. "They felt where they went, that the happiness of the land was on board: our honor and our power have brought us white sail." Maybe that's how they felt, as Bjørnstar Bjørnson says it in the "Norwegian sailor's song" already in 1868. For the Norwegian fleet was a world power, and it brought honor to the nation. Winston Churchill has said that the most important battle was the battle of the Atlantic. Without that supply line, the British, and therefore the Allies, could not stand. At one point in the war, the British supplied supplies for only 60 days. It says a little bit about the pressure that these people were under. Not only were they hunted by German «wolf packs», as the German submarines were known as, but they were also pressured to deliver the most important supplies in the fight for freedom. Sir Philip Noel-Baker, who was a similar State Secretary for Churchill during World War II, says in the NRK documentary «Eternal Honor» that the war could not have been won without the Norwegian thoughts, and that «the Norwegian Merchant Navy rendered tremendous service to the world» – that is, that the merchant fleet has done a tremendous service to the world. There's a lot of greatness and a lot of honor to draw on the ropes of war. According to historian Guri Hjeltnes, they were known as the world’s best seafarers. Words like ‘fast’, ‘retain calm’ and ‘help each other to the lifeboats’ are the things she reproduces that compliments used about our seafarers. I choose to spend time on this to show that there is no shortage of things we can learn. It's heroic, responsible and reckless. But it is also the story of Greek shipowners, war profitors and a state that would not recognise the effort until too long after it was done – in many cases too late. ‘No one shall live on anyone else. Don't tell us. I say. For this is the new world: that each shall answer separately." This was written by Nordahl Grieg in the poem "The Sailor" in 1942. He was on board. He saw who was serving the efforts of the mariners, who were the actors, and who was lost. However, the question is whether the Stortinget should decide to make a instructional arrangement on the ropes of war. There may be reasons for that, but we still agree here on the Stortinget that it is largely left to the school owner and school. There are also resources available to schools if they want to, for example: The Archives Foundation. We also have other events that teachers can use to give students the same lessons. Many UNIFIL veterans experience that they have made an effort for the world and Norway, but have been forgotten in retrospect. The same thing has been said by veterans from Afghanistan. It might as well be interesting to deal with these subjects for the students. Maybe all the issues should be seen in context, and we have to ask ourselves why this can happen over and over again. This year, Grete Faremo launched the action plan ‘In service for Norway’, which is to be a force for strengthening society’s recognition and respect for our veterans. What does it mean, for example? The students about this in the light of history? The point is that this is best solved by School-Norway. We can't have big-time politicians to control the details of the school. It's not that we don't think things are important, or that we have something to hide. It's about having a good school with the freedom to control itself, which I also thought the Progress Party was in favour. Finally, I would like to thank the case rapporteur, Henning Warloe, for doing a great job and for working well to make a comment that the entire committee, apart from the Advancement Party, could put itself behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e496	I would first like to thank the President-in-Office for a very good presentation of the cause of the war sailors. In view of the shameful treatment given to many of our war ropes by the Norwegian state after the Second World War, I think it is particularly important that today's youth gain insight and knowledge about the war ropes. The Norwegian state has little to be proud of here, and a democracy that Norway should be concerned about giving the growing relative insight into its less honorable history. I'm going to admit that this is an unusual way of going forward in order to develop educational materials for use in high school. But then again, the cause of the ropes of war and the treatment they have received is not an ordinary matter. So there's no danger that this will form precedent. Nor shall I hide the fact that the Progress Party is terribly disappointed with the majority position in this matter. Part of the background to this case is a chronicle that a young girl had in our country on December 2, 2010: «I think it is time for us students to get knowledge of the efforts of the military sailors for Norway during both World Wars. The night of April 9, 1940, the first Norther of Norway fell during World War II. That's at least what we learn from our history books we get distributed to the school. Nothing says about the approximately 400 seafarers who fell on the flag and their country from September 3, 1939 to April 9, 1940. Furthermore, it says about the courageous and very important resistance actions to the Home Front. But the efforts of the Norwegian sailors, one in ten who were actually the most important actors in the outcome of the war, are summarized only over a few sentences in a fact box in the 18-page chapter on the war in Norway." So this is written by a young girl who clearly expresses disappointment that there is too little teaching in high school about the efforts of the military sailors. I myself have conducted a small private survey among high school students to find out if they have the same experience and meaning. The feedback I get is that they learn little and in part nothing about the war ropes. The party of progress thinks it is great that the committee is in favour of the efforts of the military sailors and says that they see it as natural that each school and teacher in the field of competence of the curriculum emphasize this. But that also stops the goodwill. I think it is a pity that there is no will for today's young people to be able to take part in the efforts of the sailors and for whom they have gained recognition beyond the borders of Norway. The Advance Party also fully agrees and stresses that it must be up to the individual teacher to decide how they will teach on both this theme and other themes. But it is not possible to stick under the chair that it is much easier to teach and elaborate certain epochs where learning patterns already exist. The Progress Party will underline the value of the important work done by museums, organisations and other individuals to strengthen the knowledge of new generations of the Second World War. But it's now so that not all students have access to these arenas. When we get a message about how few dollars the schools have to spend on excursions, they may not even be able to avail themselves of the nearby offer. It's not like there's not a lot of information about the war ropes either. The challenge is that there is almost too much information. Then it goes without saying that it may take a very long time for the individual teacher to put together a drug that looks at the most central to this important epoch in Norway’s history. When we also know that many teachers who teach history don't have depth in the subject, it's an even bigger challenge. The party of progress has no intention whatsoever of starting to control the details of how each individual teacher is going to teach history. But once again, I would like to point out that access to learning material is of great importance to the choices the teacher makes in teaching. The Progress Party believes that it is a national task to better facilitate the knowledge of students in high school about the important efforts of the military sailors, many of whom were no more than 15–16 years old. In this case, I would like to encourage that a non-principle governs reason. It is possible to be principal riders of the highest rank, and I regret that in this case. I am thus promoting the minority proposal in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e533	The representative Bente Thorsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e536	The history of the war ropes is a proud story, it's a sad story, and it's a shameful story. Most sailed in convoys on the Atlantic. Here the military and civil supplies were transported, among others. between England and the United States. They lived under the constant threat of being lowered by German bombers, torpedo boats and submarines. There were over 4,000 of our own seafarers who never returned home after the war. Of those who came home, many suffered mental damage after the inhumane experience. You operate with the term "war rope syndrome". The ropes of war went through considerable psychological stresses: constant danger of violent death, helplessness and defencelessness to the overpower, and lack of connection with family and friends at home in Norway for a long time. Some survivors have later been plagued by the evolution of the surviving concentration camper. The efforts of the military sailors must be said to have been Norway's main contribution to the allies' victory over the German war power. Norway's highest-decorated citizen, Gunnar Sønsteby, and other veterans are among those who, after the war, worked actively to obtain a military pension for the Norwegian war ropes. Sønsteby has stated that the ropes of war were the only Northmen who made an effort of importance for the duration of the war. The treatment of the post-war ropes by the Norwegian authorities has rightly been strongly criticised. Many felt the failure of the public after the war. There is no doubt that the authorities, with their unwillingness to give the compensation they deserved, increased the burden on the sailors themselves, and also on the relatives and the survivors. It is important that this story – both the proud, the sad and the shameful – is told to future generations, and that the school takes this into the history of the different stages. The Committee notes in a joint opinion that: ‘whether World War II in general is questioned from a different angle and the efforts of the sailors in particular are adequately illuminated and emphasised in curricula, syllabus and education’.» There may be a need for the Council of State to take a closer look at this issue. The phrase ‘never more than 9 April’ depends on the fact that future generations know what 9 April is actually about. Individuals, museums and organizations are making a great effort in the story of World War II and the ropes of war. As mentioned earlier, there is reason to stress that the Archives Foundation in Kristiansand has a project related to the efforts of the military sailors during the war, which could be of help in teaching. They are now making communication related to the DS “Hestman” that sailed during both World Wars and is the only ship from the Norwegian state shipping company Nortraship’s fleet during World War II that is preserved. That is why in Stortinget we have decided that the unique ship should be a memorial of the Norwegian war ropes. On 22 November, a long-term restoration process has been completed. The ‘herman’ is at sea again and ready for baptism. The DS «Hestmanen» is now to be made clear as a museum ship, where the history of the Norwegian war sailors and the efforts for the Allies’ victory during World War II will again be disseminated throughout the country. About 20 pst. of all the surviving Norwegian war ropes will be bled. It's quite impressive when we know that today most of the war ropes are over 90 years old. There are even war ropes coming all the way from the Philippines to be on this event. So for all of us who are concerned that history must be communicated to new generations, here we have a tool that will need the support of Storting. It is also tempting to remember that if not many weeks we will discuss appropriations for, among other things. The Archives Foundation and others who work with this subject. We might want to focus on that when we think about the actual allocation, all that we're saying today about how important this matter is for future generations. It is a website that has made clear – for teachers and others – a very easy communication of the efforts of both the sailors and other time-witnesses called Neveragain.no, but unfortunately had to go down because the state was unwilling to pay the license rights that the website needed to pass on. Here, the Council of State has been given three good examples of how to solve what I experience is the purpose of the Advance Party here, and I feel that the Stortinge stands in common to be able to do better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e567	The case rapporteur, Warloe, has gone through the way we work on skills objectives and curricula – that we do not go through in detail in relation to the skills objectives, for example. single-pisods in history, but keeping it at an overall level. Then it's up to the schools to choose how the students will achieve the different skills goals. In many areas, the curriculum requires this way of working on comprehensive local curriculum work in order to operate the curricula, and in recent years there has been a strong emphasis on better guidance in local work on curricula. The local work on curricula, however, provides a room for deepening more thoroughly such important events as when the war ropes made a significant effort for Norway. The curricula are our main means of governance in terms of school content, but in addition, the requirements for teacher competence are important management tools. Educational materials are very important for good quality in training, and it is a local responsibility to ensure that the school has good educational materials. It is important that there is a debate on the means of learning and that educational material producers are also involved in the debate on which topics are relevant in the individual objectives of competence. This is the broad consensus in Stortinget. But when that is said, I want to commend the initiative that the Progress Party has taken, even though it is across all the ways we have agreed to work on, because I think it has itself helped to increase the focus on the history of the war ropes. Now there are many speakers who have been concerned about how special it has been, how vital it was for the outcome of World War II, what horrors these, often very young, sailors experienced, what kind of war currents they went with them after the war, how long it took to understand what they had really gone through, and how long it took to recognise the effort they had made. In particular, I think the last part really is crucial for young people to come along, because we tend to glorify our own war history related to World War II. But the story of the military sailors' efforts and the way they were treated after the war is part of showing that it's not like we've always done everything right. That's what I think is an important part of our own war story, it's important to recognise the efforts of the military sailors, and it's important to understand that you can later see that you've made mistakes in history, that there are groups that had earned a completely different recognition while it was on, and how difficult it was for individuals as well. Some of the truly tragic post-war fates were just war sailors who were not understood, who were not recognized, who often had major mental problems, and who had actually been in extreme situations that could be equated with those who stood in the front line of the war itself, and also with those who were in concentration camps. So even though the proposal from the Progress Party goes all the way across how we usually think about curriculum work, about skills goals, etc., I believe that their initiative here today has helped to raise our attention to this and the school's attention to this. I am also familiar with the submissions that started the initiative that the Progress Party has taken. It is then that we have offers to the teachers who are looking for good material to shed light on the history of the war ropes, for example. in the case of the Archives Foundation, but I also want those who produce teaching materials and textbooks to have the discussion, on which there has now been broad agreement, because even the history of the sailors really deserves a greater place in the textbooks, even though we are not the editors of those textbooks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e582	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e585	I am pleased with the constructive input of the Council of State, but then the question is, Who is responsible? Councillor Grete Faremo says May 8, 2011: "The treatment given to our ropes of war when they finally came home will always be a disgrace to the nation." I understand it so that the Council of State agrees. So the question is, who is responsible? Is that the school owners? It is not; that responsibility is nowhere else than in this room. And state councillor Faremo goes on to say: ‘I am pleased that as Minister of Defence today I can say that we have learned from the mistakes of the past and how they can be corrected.’ In a sense, the question is also: who is responsible for correcting the error that has been committed and ensuring that it does not happen again, by spreading good memory of war even to future generations? Is it the municipalities, or is it the state and this hall, the Stortinget as an institution, who is responsible for correcting the injustice committed against such a large group?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e604	I went through how we work with curricula and skills goals, and how they are at a general level. It's true for the history of the war ropes as for very many other important parts of our own history, and very much different from that which is a reasonable part of the content of the training. I think that's a sensible system. What the majority of the committee supports is 100 pst. So the way we're going to have to approach this is the way we're going to approach it in the future. Otherwise, the Storting will have long debates about all sorts of issues that are going into the different curricula. But I think the Progress Party is going to collect the reward I meant to give, and I feel that the rest of the speakers have given to the Progress Party in raising this part of the story, where the Progress Party is absolutely right: it's not a glorious part of Norwegian history how we treat the post-war battle ropes, and our young people deserve to know about this part of the history of World War II.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e612	Of course, the right is fully in agreement with the Council of State in principle on the approximation and sharing of responsibilities of curricula and the objectives of competence and the organisation of education, on which the Council of State was involved. But I have to say that I was a little surprised when I worked on this matter and became aware that in the goals of competence in the history of primary school, therefore, there is not such a big and important and central conflict as World War II specifically mentioned. So it means – at least in principle – that students can go out of ten years of elementary school without having specific knowledge of World War II. I must admit that it surprised me a little bit, and I wonder if the Council of State has any idea of this, whether one should perhaps consider raising World War II more specifically also in the primary school's field of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e619	It's an unmistakable thought that students should go through ten-year-old elementary school without hearing about World War II. It is such an important part of our close history, it is an essential part of history teaching, and it is an essential part of the child and young people in many other contexts, such as: May 17th celebration. But it might seem that we've viewed it as such, of course, that it's not necessarily a matter of curriculum and competence goals in a reassuring way, as the representative of Warloe here points out. So I'll go through it and see if it's enough based on this review.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e626	I think it's come right enough so much positive mention in this case that I think it will really warm both the few surviving war ropes we have, and possibly the descendants. I am almost tempted to ask the Council of State questions whether one can interpret it there to the effect that they are turning around and going for the minority proposal in the matter. But I won't. It's important to stick to principles, but sometimes it'll be even more important to use common sense. In this case, I am convinced that peddling does not serve anyone, and at least our young people. As it now emerges here, they don't learn as much about the war as we might have thought. We took this as a matter of course. This issue is about making educational materials available that teachers can use on a voluntary basis. Will the Minister of Knowledge see to it that it is done?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e637	What I want to do in the first place is to recommend teachers to use the material that is available, and to pay particular attention to the material that the Archives Foundation has on the history of war ropes. As far as the debate is concerned, I also believe that both textbooks authors and their mention of the ropes of war – although we do not edit textbooks – contribute to increasing attention on this issue. I think that Mr Thorsen's representative should be very pleased and take it that through this Document No. The 8 proposal has helped to shed light on this in all the parties on the Stortinget. There is a very strong consensus that the history of the war sailors deserves a greater place, even though that consensus does not go as far as you are interested in changing the system of how we work with curricula and goals of competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e644	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e649	Let me begin by giving tribute to the Council of State and the representative of Eriksen, because I feel that they are very welcome in terms of the proposal we have made today. That being said, Norwegian war memory memory has been politicized and more or less driven from this hall from day one. Whether it has affected General Fleischer and throngers and northerners who fought against the Germans in Narvik in the sixth division, whether it has been the case with Communist partisans in Finnmark, the Communist Osvald gang in Oslo or the war ropes, Norwegian memory of war has been politicized from day one. It was most opportunistic for the Workers' Party and a workers' party-driven state in Norway in the period after 1945 to highlight Social Democratic Milorg as the most central part of Norwegian war effort during World War II – a fact that we know today is completely wrong. State Council Faremo says this about that reproach: "The treatment our war ropes received when they finally came home will always be a disgrace to the nation." It was not created in the municipalities or in the county municipalities. It's created in this hall. It is this hall and the Storting as an institution that is responsible for that scourge and for clearing up the injustice committed against a large group of people. Normally I use to think when I lose a case in the hall: well, there's going to be a new accumulation period, there's going to be new times. But for this group it is too late when the Progress Party comes into government in 2013. Then probably also the last ropes of war have gone away, and we can't remove that skeleton and restore the glory of this group anymore. The Minister of Defence also says something different wisely: ‘We have learned from the mistakes of the past and how they can be corrected.’ Then it is our job to ensure that future generations can also take part in this lesson. What we're asking for is not to oblige all Norwegian teachers to teach about the ropes of war the way we think is right, but to facilitate the provision of teaching materials. I think the representative Dagrun Eriksen made a good contribution. I think we're going to deal with this when we discuss the budget, because it's small money that we're talking about to straighten out this shame on behalf of the nation. So a visit to Truls Wickholm. There is no doubt that, in the period after 1945, the Shipowners’ Federation consisted of Greek shipowners – but they had good help from a Greek labour party-controlled state and a large majority who contributed to the injustice that was committed. So today, when you refer to several museums, the Swedish Shipowners' Association has realised the injustice they were involved in, and financed a lot of the work that is being done today. I hope that the Labour Party can also contribute to this in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e666	Tord Lien has a habit: he confuses the Workers' Party with the state. It may be easy to do, but at least it creates a wrong understanding of the story. This debate is not about who has done what. It's about what the Storting is going to decide, and how detailed we're going to be. The aim of this debate is not that Lien and I should place blame on either the Workers' Party or the Shipowner's Association. The progress party should have the honor to travel this, but we can't manage the school this way. Lien says that history has been politicized. Maybe we'll end up with that. Maybe it creates more wrong than joy. Let the understanding of history be created by the historians. What about the Katokeino uprising? It was horrific events. They stood up against oppression from the supremacy, they were robbed of land and religion. Mikkel Gaup has made a fantastic strong film about what happened. It made an impression on me. It describes a crazy injustice, a powerlessness. But should I decide that everyone in Norwegian school should watch that movie? I don't think so. The party of progress has also shown in the past that they will control the details. Not long ago, they would determine the content of children's television on the NRK. I don't think that's the way to go. When we look back in history, unfortunately, there is a lot we have produced poorly, or not produced. Lien was inside the partisans, the Northmen who fought with the Soviets against the Germans. They were suspicious, monitored. The king has acknowledged them. King Olav laid a wreath on the memorial, and King Harald in 1992 apologized on behalf of the whole nation for the way they had been treated. The total resistance during the war is what is important to learn about. The Osvald group associated with Moscow was led by Asbjørn Sunde. He was an active opponent and had a close cooperation with the Home Front, and he was given the assignment from London. After the war he wrote the book Men in the Dark about his experiences. But when he applied for a war pension, he didn't get it because he was convicted of espionage – despite the fact that men like Gunnar Sønsteby spoke his case. He was perhaps one of the greatest saboteurs of the war, but died without recognition. We had armed women's groups in Finnmark. Women's efforts during the war are largely forgotten. In the South, there is a statue in memory of women's efforts in society. It says ‘rarely, often forgotten’. Ticken Manus I didn't know until I saw the film about Max Manus. I never learned about her at school. My recognition is about the whole thing. Let's not break pieces of history out of pride. Don't make it a competition for who should have been honored and honored, as they so obviously deserved. We must be proud of the joint efforts of all those who gave the country freedom. Right below us we have a memorial that we all show our guests with pride. The Storting remembers our falsities in the war with the words 'no mention, no forget'. [[The President clubs.]] Let us honour the efforts of the war with the most important story, that of Nazism losing and... [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e683	The President asks the representative, Mr Wickholm, to deal with the time allocated to speaking.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e686	I really feel a need to correct an obvious misunderstanding. I think some people have a very hard time taking things, that it's a little bit difficult. To clarify – for the third and fourth time in this debate – I can inform you that it is not the intention of the Progress Party to govern the teachers in any way. The intention is to organise educational material also on the ropes of war, which teachers can use on a voluntary basis in school. With regard to all the other issues that Wickholm was dealing with here, I think it was also a bit extensive. I must honestly admit that I have no knowledge of how much the students' history books say about everything that has happened in Norway. But maybe Truls Wickholm will be so straightforward and make a Document 8 proposal or make a statement about all the themes he was on, so that we can get a great deal of information about this. At least the intention is not that we want to impose or force the teachers into anything. Then I hope that we have received what the matter is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e698	I get it very well when the representative, Wickholm, doesn't think it's important to allocate blame, about why it's become like it has, because it's reasonably obvious why it's become like it has. With regard to the repression of cohabitation, the depreciation of the efforts of the Communists during World War II, the write-off of the sixth division of efforts during World War II and the poor treatment of the war ropes, the party is responsible for Truls Wickholm. We can't get away with that. Then we have two ways to do it: you can bet that this is solved by the Workers' Party in the municipalities, or we can take the responsibility that lies in this room, where this injustice is committed, and clean it up. I agree that there could have been other ways of debating this, for example. in relation to the budget, as Mr Dagrun Eriksen promised, but I do not think the debate would then be equally extensive. I am very pleased that we have promoted this proposal, and I am pleased that so many – among others. The Council of State and many of the other parties, especially the Christian People's Party – have been aware that this is important. It happened that Wickholm also said something reasonable. In his article he quoted – I think – from a song, that ‘they knew what they were going to’. Yes, most of the ropes of war knew what they were going to. They volunteered to serve, they were incorporated into the state-run Nortraship, and they chose to risk their lives to supply the United Kingdom with petrol to the planes during the Battle of the United Kingdom, at a time when the Atlantic battle was near. You don't have to be a war historian, as I am, to understand that winning the Battle of the United Kingdom with Spitfire and Hurricane planes standing on the ground had become something heavy. They knew what they were going to, but they didn't know in any way what they came home to. That is why it is important that we remove this scourge, and that responsibility lies in this room, nowhere else.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e711	The next speaker is Dagrun Eriksen. She is currently the last recorded speaker in case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox If more than one speaker wishes to speak in case No. 3, they have to draw themselves using the computer system in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e715	I think the debate on the ropes of war had earned a more dignified level than what we have seen at the end of this debate. It's an effort with a sad, proud and shameful story that doesn't deserve to be a throwing ball between party politics markings. I just want to remind you again that November 22nd, the King comes down to baptize the "D/S Horseman". It will be a worthy and great ceremony that says something about the efforts of the war ropes. We now have a common and great responsibility in this Chamber for all the war ropes that are still alive and that can join in and tell their story. Then we might not hear it through Wickholm and Lien's interpretations, but from those who have experienced it themselves. Then we have to hurry fast. They're over 90 years old. More and more people disappear, and those who have tried to set projects in motion lack the appropriations to do so. The material we have is still preserved, but not available. I wish that this commitment that we saw in this room today had led to the Storting taking the initiative now that we got a much faster collection of the stories to those who actually experienced what happened during the war, and not least what happened afterwards – with lack of follow-up, lack of treatment and disrespectful treatment of these who experienced this during the war. I hope that we can conduct this debate at a level that is worthy of this debate and matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e724	The last recorded speaker is Truls Wickholm. Mr Wickholm has spoken twice earlier and is given the floor to a brief remark limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e727	First, I just want to ask if there's no longer any chance of drawing by raising your hand in the hall, whether there's any new practice from the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e732	We recommend that the representatives use the screens that are at the premises of the representatives. It makes registration easier.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e735	But is it still possible to draw by raising your hand?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e740	Mr Wickholm has been given the floor and has clearly signed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e743	With all due respect, I think it is unworthy when this is going to be a discussion about who is to blame, whether the Labour Party is to blame or not. It is clear that the Workers' Party has been overthrown for many of these years. The war ropes have received their uproar, which Henning Warloe was in, in 1972, quite too late. Many have had their uprising too late. The point of Thorsen is that I believe that we are not the most competent grouping to assess who... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e748	That means speaking time to Wickholm. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e758	Then we are ready to go to the vote on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e803	For this matter, Bente Thorsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring forward a case for the Grand Duchy in which the criteria for grants to private schools are reviewed in order to ensure that they are in fact consistent with the intention of the Grand Duchy’s decision on grants to private schools.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e830	For this matter, Bente Thorsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that teaching materials are developed for use by teachers who teach the efforts and history of Norwegian military sailors before, during and after the Second World War.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-11.ana.ud2523e861	I refer to yesterday's statement from the Councils of State of Storberget and Faremo and that in this connection we decided in Stortinget that the matter should be referred to a committee for further consideration. I am pleased to be able to inform you that agreement has been reached between all the political parties today on the way forward. We propose that we set up a separate committee, in line with Rule 14 of the Rules of Procedure, that that committee should be composed of 17 members and, in this respect, that the electoral committee be given the task of selecting the members of the committee. In this context, I recommend that, in the case of a report, we also forward the statement to that Committee for further consideration. Since the minutes have not been distributed in the Chamber, the President shall read the minutes: Statement by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence on the attacks of 22 July at the meeting of the Grand Duchy on 10 November 2011 is proposed to be sent to the Special Committee set up pursuant to the first paragraph of Section 14 of the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy. [[50]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President further assumes that the Storting will agree that the Enlarged Parliament's Election Committee is mandated to set up a special committee under the first paragraph of Section 14 of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
