ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e41	The representatives Eirik Sivertsen and Dagfinn Højbrätten, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat. The called alternate from Rogaland County, Geir Allan Stava, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e66	In its statement, the Presidency promotes proposals to amend the Rules of Procedure of the Grand Duchy in order to facilitate an appropriate dialogue between the magnificence and the government on important issues related to national preparedness for terrorism. The Presidency is of the opinion that it would be useful for such consultations to be carried out by the Enlarged Foreign and Defence Committee. In order to emphasise this, it is proposed to clarify Section 13 of the Storting Rules of Procedure, which explicitly mentions important issues of counter-terrorism as a matter of concern for the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. The Presidency will stress that such discussions within the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence are not intended to replace the ordinary proceedings of the Judicial Committee on matters relating to national preparedness for terrorism, such as: in budgetary terms, but will be an addition. The Presidency points out that the Minister of Justice does not have the same autonomy to ask for a meeting of the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, as the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs have, and also the Minister of Defence on military preparedness issues. Where important questions of preparedness for terrorism may be the subject of consultations within the enlarged Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, the Presidency considers that independent access should also be granted to the Minister of Justice to request the convening of the Committee when such discussions are needed. The Presidency therefore promotes proposals to amend the Storting Rules of Procedure § 13 accordingly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e77	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3967]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e95	A few years ago, there was a TV show about the state of Norwegian psychiatry. In a sober TV studio, a woman sat and told her story. Her name was Arnhild Lauveng. Her story was about how thoughts failed, about how scary it was, about how she could no longer trust her senses. It's almost unimaginable to imagine the desperation that lies in her story. She tells me what it's like to sit in a half-dark room without a book, without a movie, without a phone, without friends, without hope of work, without a future. She said so sorely: The worst thing they did was they took away my hope. You never get well, never get family, never get a normal life, they said. Her hope of becoming a psychologist was seen as a disease symptom. If you take hope from a human being, you take life's pleasure from it as well. But she's been training. Hour after hour she has worked with herself. She has received support from the network around her and had a treatment team. She sits in the studio this day, fresh, as a psychologist, and shows the dream of man himself, against, the meaning of hope. She smiles crookedly and says she's a little stiff. For some, dreams may seem so simple – the dream of not being so intimately different, of being able to answer something other than ‘I’m going to social security’ when someone asks what you’re doing, dreams of coming home from work and seeing your daughter in your eyes and telling you that you’ve been at work. Too many people are dreaming of a safe connection to the world of work. After home and family, the Nordics place work at the highest level on the list of what is most important for their own mental health. There is evidence of great willingness to work among people with mental disorders. For most people, work means a lot more than getting paid for the pursuit. Work can give a sense of meaning in life — the work tasks go into a context larger than one. Maybe the work gives a sense of identity, that's a small part of who you are. Work can provide a sense of connection — one can get someone to share experiences and experiences with. It could be a place to get social support, a sense of community, someone who supports when the work, or maybe even life, doesn't go so well. Many of us also have a job that is so demanding that it challenges us, while at the same time the ability to do it is well-placed, so that you have control and master the challenges quite well. Then maybe the job gives a sense of worth, something that some demand and will pay for. There's someone who needs you and what you can do. These values — meaning, sense of identity, belonging, social networking, social support, mastery and self-esteem — contribute to promoting well-being at work and good mental health. If you lose your job completely, you lose the opportunity to reap these values at work. It affects your life situation. Working and keeping in touch with the workplace helps people get better. Long sick messages enhance the experience of social isolation and passivity. This may make it more difficult to get back to work. Unemployment is a major risk factor for mental health problems. The main responses to exclusion from work are work for all, as well as measures to reduce sick leave and disability. When we need so much labour in the future, this is the focus. At the same time, we know that many employers work hard to employ people with mental health problems. Psychiatric problems are the only invisible diagnosis that results from the employer’s recruitment decisions when it becomes known. People with mental problems can face stigmatizing attitudes and discrimination. At the same time, many transparency about mental problems and liberalism in the workplace is the most important factor in getting back to work, next to health. Therefore, attitudes towards employers are important. In 2007, the Ministry of Labour had a campaign aimed at employers. It showed a hectic emergency in a hospital, and the questions that were asked were: Would you hire someone with a history of mental illness? Is the answer no? Congratulations: You just rejected Florence Nightingale. The campaign is mythical and can be an example for follow-up. There is no reason why the Health Directorate's transparency campaign should not be continued. The relationship between mental illness and participation in work has at least two sides. On the one hand, it is about accessing the labour market for mentally ill people. On the other hand, it is about the mental health of those who already have access to employment. Employers need more information in order to take up the difficult conversation about a person’s mental health and the working environment, among others. through the course ‘Seen tomorrow!’. A safe relationship with the labour market is not just about the individual’s dream and hope for life. It's also about the economy of society. Overall, mental disorders are estimated to cost society about 60–70 billion. kr per year. Depression and anxiety account for about half. According to WHO, depression alone stands for 44 pst. of all the burden of disease from mental illness in the EU. So it's not a little bit of money. The sums represent more than the load on all types of cancer, three times the load on all lung diseases, or nearly four times the load on all road traffic accidents. It goes without saying that it is also important for the socio-economics to see what kind of mental illness is possible, rather than focusing on the limitations that disease brings. It is such that a person with a severe diagnosis can have good working ability, while a person with a mild form of depression may have major work problems. Focusing on person and working capacity more than diagnosis is therefore particularly important. The national strategy plan for work and mental health is part of efforts to prevent exclusion and facilitate inclusion in working life for people with mental health problems. It points to many important measures that can contribute to the success of getting more people back or entering the labour market. At the same time, it shows that there is still a need for more relevant knowledge and experience. In this work, it is important to include the user experience perspective and user involvement. Many people work in spite of mental problems. Our experience is essential to solve the challenge of society in relation to those who fall out of work. Research in this area is therefore important. Psychiatric health problems can be largely prevented by having a society that takes care of people, gives trust, provides opportunities, fulfills rights, offers good welfare arrangements, works for everyone and generally creates an inclusive society. In this picture, action plans are important in order to create a society where everyone is going, because the way in which the policies are conducted affects man’s ability to hope for a better life. And hope gives life to many mentally ill people, as Lauveng then described in a sober TV studio. My question to the Council of State is: What is the status at the national strategy level for work and mental health 2007–2012, and how will the Council of State follow up the strategy now in its final phase and evaluate it afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e125	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for raising so important issues related to the response to people with mental disorders. The 2007–2012 national strategy plan for work and mental health points to the interpolation of efforts. At the same time, research shows that mental disorders are among the main causes of disability, that having a mental illness is still taboo, and that some people with mental disorders face major challenges both in their working life and in their daily lives. An important challenge is to provide a good service. I am concerned about this, and I share the interpellant's view that we have to be impatient about finding good offers. This is also central to government policies to prevent exclusion from the labour market and to facilitate the inclusion of outsiders. In autumn 2007, the National Strategy Plan for Work and Mental Health was launched. An important aim of the strategy is to ensure a comprehensive public effort and to see the work of people with mental disorders in connection with the labour-oriented services and actions of the Nav reform. The Roadmap for Mental Health has expanded services both in municipalities and in the specialist health service. The ambition behind the strategy is that people with mental illness should make the most of their resources in the workplace and that services and actions should facilitate this. Through this strategy, we want to build a bridge between labour and welfare management and the health sector for this group. Interpellant discusses the importance of labour-oriented efforts for people with mental disorders. I agree that the work of assisting people with mental health and social problems is important, but it is also demanding. Experience from the Working and Welfare Act shows that many people with mental disorders are falling into the process of reintroduction. There is a need for flexible and customised services along with continuity and follow-up over time. For those receiving training in return, evaluations show that follow-up is important. Many in the target population also need treatment in parallel. Parallel treatment, follow-up and organisation have proved to be important in order to enable individuals to implement labour market measures and get out of work. As one of the actions in the Strategy Plan, own guidance and follow-up gaps have been established. The central task of the pilot is the follow-up and guidance of the individual user. The lotes also assist employers and others who interact with people with mental health problems or difficulties. The interpellant points to the need to deliver results. Experience shows that serious mental illness can also work if they are adapted to follow-up and organisation. Attempts to respond to the Job-mastering follow-up will help people with mental illness or problems to master the symptoms, everyday life and work. Employees and managers in firms that have had participants in the experiment have gained increased knowledge of psychiatry and assistance in dealing with mental illness. The preliminary research results of SINTEF Health indicate that users participating in the action experience a stronger reduction in the symptoms of mental distress than those who do not receive this offer. Uni-health has been mandated to evaluate the effectiveness of the action and the results will be available in 2012. There is still a need to strengthen knowledge and research both nationally and internationally. Research into work and mental health must be part of a maintenance programme and a learning process. The role of employers in including people with mental health disorders is important. Knowledge of how mental disorders can best be prevented in working life is needed by focusing both on the individual and the workplace as arenas. The success of inclusion in working life includes: on individual mastering skills. Mestringency is also a collective issue in the work organisation. This is not least important when enterprises and public enterprises are to include those not linked to the labour market. The interpellant refers to the action taken by the State to guide the strategy. This means intermediary actions and services to assist people with mental health problems in state-owned businesses. The State of Employment and Welfare has started pilots in some public enterprises. It has been found to be difficult to obtain good results from this measure. The challenge of opening up public and other businesses from within is therefore one that I have put on the agenda. In this context, I would like to recall the work on the employment strategy for people with disabilities, which we are now in the process of doing. As part of the efforts of the strategy, a package of skills has been developed for the labour market. Nav's Employment Centres offer, inter alia: the ‘Seen tomorrow!’ course, where employers can learn more about work and mental health. The courses are directed towards managers, intermediaries and trustees in all types of businesses. Themes of the courses include: the importance of work for mental health and the most common mental health disorders. Finally, I would like to say that both the national strategy plan for work and mental health and other efforts are aimed at ensuring good and relevant work and health-oriented actions and services for individuals. I believe that the initiative has provided a good basis for people with mental disorders to be included in working life and social life. It is important both for individuals with mental health challenges, for families and neighbourhoods and for society as a whole. We know that there is still a lot of work, not least in terms of more knowledge of what works. Efforts to improve follow-up and instruments are ongoing. There is reason to believe that this work is gradually producing more positive results for people with mental disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e151	I would like to thank the Council of State for her information on what is done to follow up the mental health and work action plan. I would also like to point out the importance of this work in the socio-economic sense. As I mentioned in my post, it costs 60 billion. kr – 70 br. to care for the mental health of the population in the year. These are resources that can be used in a completely different way if you get people from social security to active work. The Council of State referred to the lack of guidance and its importance, and it is easy to agree with. At the same time, I would also like to point out that it is important to investigate the reasons why people do not get out of work, why they fall out, and not least the attitudes employers have towards mental illness. Here we can know a lot. I also think it is important to investigate why those people who actually manage to get into the world of work do it, and how it works to find the right measures. I think it's very good what it's put up to, that the state will show the way, and that you're going to get more into the public sector. It was a very happy message that the Council of State came there. Then I would also like to point out what I initially mentioned, the need to eliminate stigmatisation in society, including among employers. I am also pleased that it was taken up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e162	Once again, I would like to say that I am very happy that this topic has been put on the agenda. We see with great concern that there is a very large increase in sick leave and disability associated with mental disorders, often referred to as mild mental disorders, but to all kinds of mental disorders. We see that it is increasing among young people. I am concerned about the whole area, but in particular I think it is alarming that we see this among young people. We don't know enough about what's causing this. We know, as the interpellant is inside, very clearly that some of the things that work are getting into a kind of activity, a job, being seen, being taken into account -- it's very important. I have said something about what we are doing, but I have also been very clear that it is challenging. I think the interpellant agrees with me on that. We have the whole spectrum here, we have the whole spectrum of challenges. I think it is important, as the interpellant says, that we must learn from the measures that show good results. We fool ourselves if we think that simple qualification measures etc. works. I think what's absolutely essential to get out, which is also the interpellant's concern, is to open up the working life of this group of people that we really need in our working life. We need labour. We can't let people who can make an important and valuable effort for society fall out because we can't follow them up. So I'm very happy with this, and I promise to go along with it. I have expressed my concern for young people. The employment strategy, which we are going to present in the near future, will try to address some of this. But I think it's a continuous work, and not least: we need to know more about what's actually the reason that this society is so tough for very many young people, and that it has the consequences we see.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e173	Psychiatric disorders cause 20 pst. of sick leave here by country. Figures from the Mental Health Council show that one in five has a mental illness at any time, and that more than half of us will be affected by mental health problems at any time in life. Depression is the most common mental disorder among adults in Norway. Of course, it's those who carry the disease, who also have to bear the burden of their own disease. But sometimes it can be useful to convert this into economic sizes, and then it is that mental disorders, and especially depression, cost the country 44 billion. kr every year in the form of lost labour income and sick leave. Together with musculoskeletal disorders, mental disorders are the main focus of sick leave in Norway today. In connection with a work research project at the University of Bergen, which we visited for some time ago, one of the implicated doctors, referring to mental disorders, said that he sometimes felt the need to report patients back to work, implicitly that long-term absence from work rather exacerbates the patient's situation than improve it. In addition, there is solid professional coverage to claim that a large part of the mental distress that many people are struggling with actually has its background in the home, rather than in the workplace. With knowledge of the importance of the job for most of us, not least as a social arena, it should be such that, for the longest time, mental distress can be treated while the workers are at work. We also know that long-term sick leave easily leads to disability. Of those who have been sick for more than one year, only one in four is returning to work. Here, as usual, early efforts are important. But then we have to have a working life that takes mental illness seriously and that does not push people out, but actually and practically includes people with such pains in their working life. There is a lot of good work done in this field. In several counties, among others: as a result, in my own right, self-employment schemes have been set up to provide advice and guidance to employers who need help in dealing with these kinds of issues. The last issue of the LO-Current magazine tells of the course package 'Seen tomorrow!' developed by Nav in cooperation with the social partners. The course package targets personnel managers, trustees and security representatives and is about facilitating, supporting and assisting people who are struggling, returning to work. In its response to the interpellant, the Council of State shows that it is important, but also demanding, to assist people with mental disorders, so that they can be returned to and function in a normal working life. Many people need long-term treatment and follow-up. Treatment institutions for mental illness are targeted at diseases of a more serious nature. In addition, there is often a waiting time to get to a psychologist or to a psychiatrist. Of course, it's important that those with severe mental disorders get the help they need. Nevertheless, much can be achieved by simpler means, and we have many examples of that. After several years of so-called depression assessment course, which is not a therapeutic offer, but simply a course that teaches participants to master easier mental disorders, Nav i Tønsberg is now in the process of establishing a job test centre. This is an offer that has been established in some counties for some time, and which is on guidance in mastering symptoms of minor psychiatric disorders. The offer is appropriate for persons with mild mental illness who are at risk of getting sick, having a full or partial job from whom they are ill, returning to work after long-term sick leave, receiving sick pay or redundancy benefits or having a desire to return to work or working practices in the near future. That's a good offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e188	I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important matter. As the representative Gullvåg said, this is actually one of five, and there are many. Nevertheless, almost to this day it has been so taboo and so difficult both to talk about and to manage that employers and colleagues also shade away when this disease occurs. I think I'll open up with that, because I think this is a lot of stuff about having to talk about it openly, telling you what it is. It's also about each of us in everyday life, that we're actually able to be fellow humans, but also a colleague, and have more knowledge of this, which allows you to live with it and get out of it. The interpellant mentioned Florence Nightingale as an example. I want to mention another one. The Nordic Council Literature Prize nominated a Norwegian author this year named Beate Grimsrud, who has written a book called "A Fool Free", which I would recommend to everyone. Beate Grimsrud has a very serious mental illness – she describes it in the book – but writes brilliant things and works well. But what is so obvious in the book is that this would not have happened if no friends – to say it like that – the family and the treatment system around her had worked. I want to underline it. So there's a lot of reason to look at the reasons that exist here. We can't do enough about that, we have to look into it. There are a lot of reasons, of course – and different reasons. I think what we're doing now from good work with children, from kindergarten to school, that it's going to be masters' arenas, where they grow, get narcissistic and experience mastering, is very positive. What we do in the field of child protection is very positive. Another action plan we have in progress is the action plan against violence in close relationships. All of this is of course very important in this work, at least in order to prevent people who have a mental disorder from experiencing that everything else around them has razed and is infill – but that they have an experience that they can actually overcome difficulties. I think, like more people before me, that being at work, for example, participating in society, doesn't just make sense, but makes sense. It gives you identity, it gives you support, and it gives you access. Not least, the job is often the one that shows that we are doing something. I've met a lot of young people who have had a lot of trouble at school, and also with mental problems, for very different reasons. But when they get a practical problem, they say, "Well, I can point to something right now, it says, I've done this, I've actually got it done. That's why the job is so very important to many people. It's the arena where you can physically show what you're doing. I believe it is important that the action plans we are launching be followed up – not necessarily as action plans, but as a change of practice at all levels as to how to deal with these issues. So it's very important to evaluate this, figure out what works, and keep doing what works, continuously, not just for a short time with action plan. Then I want to point out one of the measures in my home country – in my home town, Hamar – that is good. The Stortinge Committee has visited the User Control Center for Hamar. It is the labour-oriented measure that most people with mental illness get into work. And it's a low threshold offer, you can get people to sea. They've restored an old house seam. This is a social community arena, but also for work training and training. And it's user-driven. I don't think I can stress enough the importance of user management, not only user involvement, but also user management. Therefore, I also believe that social entrepreneurship can be used much more in this work. It may be difficult for people with mental disorders to be accepted as workers, but perhaps they are very good workers. They may be able to work within the framework of which they decide working time and premise on what to do, and do not have to depend on working time or on an employer. I am absolutely sure that this instrument will also work well, so that more people can realize their abilities, get work and be part of and create.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e210	First, I have to be allowed to thank the interpellant for a good and important interpellation, with a very good focus on how to keep people with mental health problems at work, and show that this is possible. As many people have been faced with, this is a challenge you have to work with. The fact that you have health problems can mean that you can work completely. As Andersen's representative was at last here: Work is identity. Meeting the mental health challenge may be an important part of being able to contribute by having a relationship with the world of work. This is a challenge that concerns many more than we think. As Gullvåg’s representative pointed out, mental health, along with musculo-skeletal disorders, is much of the main problem of sick leave and disability. That means we have to have an extra ‘driving’ on this, but it also means that there are many more than one fast believe. When one in five young people — and to the extent the rest of the population — is affected by some form of mental illness, it means that it affects us all. And it's not necessarily just child protection measures or special challenges that are the problem, these are societal challenges. Then taboo is some of that one must be occupied with. Focusing on how to keep these people at work is another part of it. One knows that if a porter outside the labour market – Gullvåg’s representative described very well the time of leaving work for sick leave and then for disability – it helps to reinforce mental problems. If you manage to stay at work, or at school, if that's the student group you're talking about, it will also help to alleviate. I am very pleased that the interpellant – and to the extent that the Council of State – makes it so clear that this applies to the whole human being, that it is not necessarily what happens in working hours, which is the challenge, but as much as it happens outside of working time. Therefore, an action aimed at both the employer and what is happening on the job and what is happening outside the job is needed. One needs to focus on actions that can do something about this. This action is labour-oriented rehabilitation among other labour market measures where one sees the whole human being, some of which may be important. Therefore, it is necessary to stress that there needs to be a commitment for this house to have more space for action to help people who are either falling out of the labour market or who have fallen out of the labour market into the labour market again. In this case, one cannot feel that it is being cut or that one has to wait a long time to get these places of action. If you're about to fall out of work, you need an offer right then. If you have fallen out of work, you need an offer as early as possible, if you are to succeed in coming back. Therefore, labour market measures are a priority which the Council of State must give to the revised national budget. She knows that very well. Furthermore, it has been a priority for the Christian People's Party to bet on stepping up in mental health. That is why former Health Minister Hojbräten was one of those who started the escalation plan. The Christian People's Party has also been concerned that these funds should still be earmarked. That's why we were opposed to removing earmarks. In our alternative budget, we have retained earmarks, because prevention and lowthreshold services are so important. One also sees that this has been down-prioritized somewhere. It's search. In the area of prevention and lowthreshold services, in particular young people are a priority group, a main target group, in the national strategy plan for work and mental health. It should be. This is a vulnerable group that needs priority. There are people on the way into work, and if they don't get in early, they may never come in. They have to get the help when they need it. This means that you have to offer lowthreshold services, for example: a health sister offer, or offer at shopping centres, etc., where it is easy to drop in, where young people are staying, and where there is no stigma attached to e.g. to seek out a psychologist, or even simpler offers. My message is that you have to be able to see the whole human being. One has to be committed to prevention throughout society, and one has to come up with measures to help people not to fall out of work and help people get back into work. Then you have to work with a course, and you have to work with an employer's knowledge, so that you can easily understand that even if you have a mental health problem, there is no obstacle to being able to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e229	First a small remark before I thank you for a very important interpellation. It is a little unfortunate that the interpellation comes at a time when both the Labour and Social Committee and the Health and Welfare Committee – we are represented here, but we should be more – have hearings. It makes it a little difficult, and it doesn't give enough attention to an interpellation that deserves as much attention as it can get. I want to boast to the representative Yrvin about having taken up the interpellation. Not least, I also want to boast about her post and the chronicle that stood in the evening post for some time. The fact that politicians as a professional group are involved in demonstrating that having a mental illness is as normal as having a flu, being cold or breaking a bone also contributes to the creation of transparency. There are also several politicians who have done it before, but it is now that not even having a prime minister who had a depressive reaction has caused all the prejudices against mental illness to disappear. I also want to remind you that many people are doing important work in this area. I'm sure the Storting is aware of that. One of the organizations is Mental Health, which has its head office in my home country, in the municipality of Skien, and as among others. operates an important offer, a work-life phone, which targets those who have problems that are not directly related to working life and jus, and who may not have so many problems that they should go to health care. The type of lowthreshold services may be important to take care of and further develop. I also think that the social partners should take greater responsibility for it. I'm not going to go through the entire psychiatry exercise in recent years, just notice that there's been a broad consensus on the Stortinge that you need to bet on psychiatry. And that's probably an indication that the psychiatry in Norway, especially the juvenile psychiatry, is no longer the health care stepchild. But it is still the case that still hangs enough of the stepchild mindset again. I'm going to spend the rest of my time at my disposal focusing on working life and mental illness. I think the biggest and most important realization that this big thing has to come to is that it's not that you have to get out of work just because you have a disease. Having a disease, a disorder, a chronic disorder, is too many people fully compatible with being in work – perhaps not compatible with being in 100 pst. work 100 pst. of the time, but it is compatible with being at work. We know that participation in the world of work is healthful, healthy, and that some of the worst things that can happen is getting isolated and falling out of work. Helping people out to work was one of the pillars of the Pedagogical Health Action Plan, and experience has shown that people with mental health problems need close follow-up and integrated work-oriented measures to succeed in returning to work. We also know that a large proportion of both unretired and people in social care, especially in the youth group, have mental disorders as their main diagnosis, and that has long been one of the leading causes of disability. The size has previously been pointed out, and there has been quite a broad consensus, that it was very good in the strategy plan that came in 2007. But as the interpellant, now that we're approaching the end of the planning period, I'm excited about what are the concrete results you have to point to. In particular, I may be concerned because many of the measures described in the Strategy Plan are about what Nav is going to do, and what kind of actions Nav is going to implement. We know that during the same period that many of these plans were to be implemented, Nav has had great challenges because of the change that we in this room have – I had almost said – imposed on them. At least we've decided that they have to go through a transformation, which has been altogether good, I think, but which has also caused a lot of anxiety, and perhaps, one can fear, also disrupted this important work. The question is essentially what to refer to for users. Is there a greater proportion of the mentally ill who are out of work now, compared to four years ago? How many more have been offered help? And how effective has the help been? There are several things that are important. The first is, of course, that we have a mental health service that actually works. The queues have been and are still too long. We can't have it that way. The second is work on general changes in attitudes. There, it is important and necessary to contribute to the de-stigmatisation of people with mental disorders. The third is perhaps a broader perspective on just the whole of labour and welfare policy, which makes it easier and more flexible to be able to have arrangements that actually allow you to work longer, even if you have a diagnosis. That means we have to look through our disability pension schemes, as the government has warned, and other public schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e248	Thank you to the representative Karin Yrvin for addressing this matter. It is incredibly important that mental health issues are debated here in Stortinget. Work is the most important factor in the creation of wealth for society, the family, and not least for individuals. Governments pointed to key resources and challenges we have in order to achieve the goal of more work for more people. Much is good, and it is important to be on target and impatient after learning from experience and helping more people to maintain their relationship with the world of work. We are privileged to live in Norway, a country with high productivity, a high level of well-being and care for the individual, but also a country where the obligation to participate should balance with the individual’s opportunities. But there are differences here at home in terms of participation in the world of work. In the South, for example, we have a high proportion of young people who are often left out of work and social networks because of mental problems. The title of the research report on the lives of these young people is «A life I did not choose». We see that the Progress Party and the Right will have a more market-regulated working life – less power to two of the three equivalent carriers of the Community, the trade union movement and the state. Labour market regulation is not good medicine to create safe and predictable frameworks around people who are struggling. The market shall and may not have this task alone. Many people outside the labour market miss having a job to go to. It gives belonging, access to communities where stories are told, knowledge is shared, and it gives money in the wallet. According to a Gallup directed by the Health Directorate, 96 pst says. that work is among the three most important aspects of mental health. But I'm going to point to one area where it's not that easy to decide, that's the issues that affect me and you and us and us. It was mentioned here that one in five suffers from mental illness. Actually, what we call normal is the sum of what's abnormal. Expanding our limits to what we tolerate of so-called normal behavior and behavior is demanding, but necessary. Many people experience that the biggest problem is that the environment does not have the power to include people with particularly deviant behaviour or thinking patterns. It might be useful to remind ourselves that no matter how seriously a person is mentally ill, this person is more like us than different from us. Time and again, we see that people work well in an environment where you tolerate a little different. There is no need to be space for action in order to do so. This is easy to forget when we talk about inclusive work and organization. In fact, many people are doing well in the workplace as well. How do we constitute ourselves in the public space? It's also important. Media often describes people with mental illness as unstable, dangerous and points to society’s need for protection. Politicians present them as helpless, poor, and victims, so that we can afterwards solitude and struggle to be the merciful Samaritan. Humanity is often confused with the size of the budget line or the number of action places. It's important, but not enough. In the next round, people with such disorders are to be included and my colleagues, and it may be tempting to point to special needs rather than inclusion where I am. Management theory says that one should give at least five positive messages for each negative to promote growth. Maybe media and we ourselves should have a supplement in our ethical guidelines on this. Finally, I would like to point out to Mr Einfrid Halvorsen, a courageous politician from the Workers' Party, who put mental health on the agenda many years ago. She was the forerunner of user involvement, not as something special, but as to each one of us. Yes, we need skills, knowledge and awareness-raising measures, we need research, but above all we need to recognise that we also have such friends. They're more like us than we think.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e267	I would also like to join in the thanks of the interpellant to address a topic that does not receive the attention it should. Being at work gives a network and social relationships. Having a job gives the good experience of contributing to the community. A job to do is important to everyone, not least those with mental disorders. Passiveness is unhealthy. Therefore, it is worrying that we see an ever-increasing increase in mental illness as a cause of social security benefits. Often it is about milder mental distress that should have been solved differently from by morbidity. That is why it is good that the Minister has tightened up his commitment to follow-up of the sick. Much can be solved with a better interaction between the sick person, the doctor and the employer. Therefore, it is important that we have policies and plans to get the most out of work. A short time ago, the Health Fraction of the Workers' Party organised a consultation with users’ and relatives’ organisations in the field of mental health. They came up with a lot of good advice, and they were clear on the value of activity. They pointed out that there was a need for more lowthreshold services. A good example is the Fontenehuset. The members of a fountain house work primarily at the clubhouse, but they also get help to get started on studies and out in their own work. These are good measures built up under the Roadmap for Mental Health, which we need to take care of and develop further. Mental Health was also at the consultation and focused on the need for long-term support schemes that could allow them to compete in the open labour market. They wanted wider cooperation between Nav, the social partners and user organisations on action to create opportunities for work. Other organisations, such as White Eagle and We Shall Overcome, wanted to focus more on reducing the use of drugs and drug-free treatment, which may help to get into work more easily. It is important that we further expand our interaction with user organisations and listen to their advice on what we should do to get more people with mental disorders into work. It has done a lot of good through the escalation plan. Now it's important that we take care of this and build on what we see yields good results, because we know that work provides well-being, safety and health. Existence of crises and mental disorders are part of real life and affect the majority in a long life. A modern openness about this helps many people. Several politicians have also been good role models here, including: interpellant, as also mentioned by the representative of Røe Isaksen. I am convinced that the chronicle that the interpellant wrote in one of our major newspapers has already led to hundreds of mental disorders getting into work. I want to sum up very simply: Psychiatric disorders are a natural part of real life, and shall be a natural part of a healthy working life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e283	There are more than me around in the quite country who are very happy with this debate, and it is in the process of breaking the stigmas. It's moving forward. I'm e.g. I'm very glad I didn't live 20, 30 or 40 years ago, and I expect it to be easier to live with mental illness in 20, 30 or 40 years. I am pleased that the representatives have focused on society's costs, and how important it is to have work to have a good mental health. I am pleased that the responsibilities of the labour market have been taken up. The Vestfold-losers were very interesting, and it is nice that Gullvåg mentioned how it works in Westfold. I'm also very happy that you talk about the waiting time when you need help, and the importance of early effort. Here we have a lot to do. There are not many places where you have to go to health care itself and apply for help. So I've noticed the Christian People's Party and Roppstad commitment to labour-oriented rehabilitation and action areas, and the need for it. The font house was also mentioned in an article. There is a type of work-oriented rehabilitation, and there are too few municipalities that have such an offer. Karin Andersen addressed the need for user management, and I think that is completely underestimated. These are independent people who take personal responsibility in everyday life. Then I'll tell Red Isaac that it was great that he brought it up with prejudices. I think this can be reduced, and the best way to do it is to talk about it. As Kari Henriksen says, we're more equal than we are different. Then I will also praise and honor Health to address this with that unemployment is «disease». He also mentioned the importance of user organisations and the importance of listening to them politically, because they are not used to by user organisations. I am also pleased that he pointed out the important efforts of Mental Health. I just want to sum up by saying that employment-oriented measures are important. It's economically profitable to do something. It's already doing a lot from the Council of State, and we're excited about the follow-up to this. Once again, I would like to thank you for the important debate here in the main hall, and for your participation in it, because it breaks the stigma.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e304	I also want to thank you for this interpellation, and give tribute to the interpellant for giving this a face, like other politicians before us. We have to get there that having a mental disorder is just as good to talk about as having other types of physical disorders. I believe that we have made great progress in Norway in this area, and not least politicians who have stood up to it have been important in this regard. But just as we're now busy talking about classified sick messages, seeing the working capacity of people who are disabled instead of seeing what they can't do, we're also going to do it in relation to mental disorders. We have to make as many demands and build up just as much under the fact that it should be possible to work when you have mental disorders, as when you have other types of physical disorders. We must not accept that there is more to absenteeism from work if you have a mental illness than if you have another type of disorder. There's no reason to say that at all. We have a way to go. I see that the Roppstad again is on the plate with the measures, and I am happy about that. I'm glad that people never rest in their affairs, and we share very many of the same views on this. The representative, Røe Isaksen, asked what we know about the further evaluation of this plan. He said that Nav has been involved in the conversion of Stortinget, and that the challenges associated with this might have been the responsibility of Stortinget. But at the same time, I think we agree – don't we – that this doesn't happen without Nav either, because it's Nav that is the one who kind of sees the whole human being, which is absolutely fundamental to our success in this area as well. We have had an ongoing evaluation of the plan. I have been to some of the results in my main post. How the plan is to be evaluated overall is to be assessed, so I have to come back to that later. But again, thank you so much for the discussion, and thank you so much for the interpellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e319	That being the case, it is no. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e335	I'm addressing this interpellation on the basis of facts and statistics presented in the 2011 Research Survey, which was published earlier in the spring, as the first of its kind. Since it is the Ministry of Knowledge that is behind the report, let me immediately say to the Council of State that this is a very interesting report, for which the department deserves praise. Here, there's a lot of interesting stuff about higher education and research, presented in an interesting way that arouses curiosity and interest. Interesting, for example. that the report also asks questions that are not attempted in the report itself. So the report has a form that inspires debate, and what is more natural than that can happen here in Stortinget? I almost want to say that based on the content of this year's research barometer, we can have a lot of interesting interpellation debates here in Stortinget for the rest of this year. Today, when I discuss whether we have succeeded in the quality reform of higher education, there are three reasons. Firstly, the Ministry of Knowledge has chosen the theme «Knowledge for the Future» as a special theme in the 2011 Research Barometer. Secondly, the report presents facts and statistics related to Norwegian students’ perception of their own study situation and place of study which may seem disturbingly negative. Thirdly, the report itself states that there is reason to ask whether the institutions, i.e. universities, have succeeded in achieving the objectives of the quality reform. It is, in my opinion, a question that naturally belongs here in Stortinget. And when the Ministry of Knowledge itself asks the question, i.e. through its own report, it's natural to hear what the Council itself thinks about the question, which is, therefore, her own department asks. It's not unnatural that our universities are getting more and more attention. This is due to several relationships. Not least, over a generation, we have experienced strong growth in the number of people with higher education. Over the course of 30 years, the number has increased from approx. 300000 to approx. One million, i.e. a triple over a generation. This applies to education at both universities and higher education institutions, so the sector has grown strongly. As more and more people choose to invest more years of life in higher education and as public funding increases, it is also more important that resource use, quality and performance are in line with expectations and societal demands. Getting an increasingly knowledge-intensive business and labour in international competition also makes the demands of our universities increase and become clearer. Therefore, it is not unnatural that the 2011 Research Barometer focuses on this precisely through the title of some of the chapters, for example.«Are we developing the right competences for the future?» and «Are Norwegian universities good enough?». Our universities have two equally important tasks: they need to research and develop new knowledge, and they need to provide education. For perhaps too many years, universities have evolved into large organisations without too much "interference" from around the world. The concept of ivory tower, i.e. a kind of elevated and isolated existence, was used for the sector and for those who worked there. There was probably too little contact between universities and work and business, there were too unclear demands for results, and there was too little transparency and public quality assessment. Now it can be objected, and I think sometimes rightly, that universities represent a special sector, a society almost in itself with its own rules and culture. I think it was Einstein who in his time formulated the sentence "not everything that counts, can be counted". Quality is a difficult concept and not always easy to measure. However, I believe that the time around the year 2000 was overdue to focus more critically on the university sector. According to Minister of Economic Affairs Trond Giske, he, as Minister of Education at the time, took the initiative for the Quality Reform of Higher Education around the year 2000/2001. But it was the Minister of State for Education Kristin Clemet who made more headlines about reforms in the sector. A key objective was to improve the follow-up and guidance of students, to reduce non-response and to ensure that more students could conduct studies at a standard time. Quality reform has now worked for almost a decade. It is very interesting to see whether the reform has worked properly – and if not, why? When the 2011 Research Barometer asks questions about this, it should give cause for concern. When only approx. 25 pst. The students state that they are very satisfied with the follow-up they receive, it is clear that we have a long time left. In particular, it is important to analyse the reasons why it is so. Do we have a resource problem? Do we have a management problem? Or do we simply have a cultural problem, in the sense that employees at universities still view students as a burden, and not as their main task? Why is it that we hear from many foreign students about a different attitude, a different culture, in the relationship between students and teachers at universities abroad? Most recently, when the Kuf Committee visited some of the world's best universities in the United States and Canada, we heard several such stories from Norwegian foreign students we met about close contact, low distance and great interest from even the most prominent professors in relation to advice and guidance for students. Is it also like this at Norwegian universities? Now, of course, the figures presented in the Research Barometer can be interpreted with caution. In addition, it is a fact that Norwegian universities score well on other indicators. However, the quality reform was a major and important and politically adopted reform for an entire sector. It is then important that both the Department and the Stortinget show interest in whether the reform has actually worked as intended, even in areas other than the area I have addressed in this interpellation. I'm meeting the Council of State's response.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e358	I thank you for the interpellation and for the interest expressed by the representative of Warloe in the work on the research barometer. As you know, the government has designated 2011 as the Scientific Year. During this year, the government invites discussions on the importance of research and higher education. On 17 March this year, the Ministry of Knowledge organized the first of two major signalling conferences in the Year. At the conference, the Research Barometer was presented for the first time. The barometer presents various indicators showing the state of Norwegian research, innovation and higher education. The research barometer was developed by the Ministry of Knowledge in advance of this conference. The representative of Warloe questions communication with the sector during the development of the Research Barometer. The Ministry of Knowledge draws up many different types of documents in a year, many of which are influenced by the involvement of actors in the sector. As an example, I can mention the Ministry's ongoing work on education and training for welfare services. In this work, the Ministry wants an open and involved process, and we are in close dialogue with the sector, with the profession and with other stakeholders. The research barometer was developed in the Ministry of Knowledge without a similar process in advance. Instead of involving the sector in the preparation of the report itself, it is intended as a starting point for debate – a debate that started at the March Conference on Knowledge of the Future. The research barometer has some point formulations that were meant to create debate, which we have succeeded in. While the Ministry of Knowledge sometimes adds to a broad process and debate prior to the production of documents, it is sometimes more natural for the debate to be delayed. When it comes to making decisions, it's time to invite you to make recordings, which of course we do. The scientific year is precisely intended as an opportunity for different actors to make input to the next major research report, presented in 2013. In addition to the launch of a research barometer by the Ministry of Knowledge, the Fagerberg Committee, in its recent study, also proposes the establishment of a research barometer. I would like to take this opportunity to stress that the Fagerberg Committee here has good proposals that I want to take with me, and I see no problem with the fact that the department already has such a barometer. Other suggestions from the sample, as you know well, are budgetary issues. This year's Research Survey from the Ministry of Knowledge is based on several sources. It shall be updated annually and shall provide information on Norwegian research. A special theme will also be presented each year. In this year’s report, this is ‘Knowledge for the Future’, where we look more closely at the knowledge triangle and the interaction between education, research and innovation. What Warloe specifically addresses is a study of student satisfaction with guidance and feedback. This part of the Research Barometer is based on the 2009 Candidate Survey carried out by the NIFU Research Institute. NIFU has conducted such studies since the beginning of the 1970s and thus has a long experience in this field. In addition to examining the situation of candidates in the labour market, various aspects of education and training were asked. The study has a response rate of about 50 pst. for the part used by the Research Barometer, which must be considered acceptable. I therefore believe that it is appropriate to use this study to express the satisfaction of the candidates with feedback and guidance and a number of other aspects. However, it is important to point out that the study says something about the candidates’ assessment of follow-up, and is not a measure of how much feedback and guidance was actually given. It can also be noted that students’ expectations of follow-up can be high and therefore difficult to meet. On behalf of the Ministry of Knowledge, a time-use survey is currently being carried out among all scientific staff at universities and colleges. Here employees are asked to indicate how much time they spend on different tasks, including follow-up of students. The results of this survey will be available at the end of the year. We will then get research that sees this from the employees, which will help us to get a more comprehensive picture of the situation. It is also important to point out that there are probably differences between academic environments in the follow-up to the students, and we also see from the table Warloe that there are differences between institutions. The research barometer includes averages for each university, but does not show differences between academic environments. Nor does the barometer present figures for the scientific and state universities or for private institutions. I would therefore like to stress that the picture can vary; many schools and disciplines spend a lot of resources on teaching, others should use more. In order to gain more knowledge, the Ministry of Knowledge plans to launch a national student survey that will provide us with data on the student's assessment of the follow-up in a wide range of education and institutions. The core of the quality reform is quite correct, as the representative Warloe also points out, that the students should succeed in the education, and it was an important starting point for the reform that there should be a closer follow-up of the students. Of course, the Ministry of Knowledge finances studies among both students and employees on this topic reflect that we are following this closely. In addition, follow-up of students is an important part of the quality of education, an area of high priority in the ministry's work. Much is good in Norwegian higher education. Among other things, it turns out that education and training provide a solid basis for working life. At the same time, evaluations of different education systems show that improvements can be made. Universities and colleges have great professional freedom. As a result, they are obliged to evaluate the quality of their education and to assess their actions. The quality assurance systems of institutions are central in this context. We see that many institutions are doing this in a good way. But although the institutions have a great deal of professional freedom and are responsible for the quality of education, the department follows this closely, among other things. in the governance dialogue with the institutions. And that's of course an important goal for us, too, for the students to get satisfactory follow-up and guidance. NOCUT also plays a central role in quality work in the university and higher education sectors. By overseeing and stimulating quality development, the NOCUT shall contribute to ensuring and promoting quality in higher education. In addition, the Ministry of Knowledge has introduced some new frameworks to which the institutions need to deal, such as national qualifications frameworks and advice for cooperation with the labour market. Together, this will contribute to a clear educational orientation for students and society. The Qualifications Framework shall ensure that professional environments focus attention on the student learning outcomes. This will be implemented by 2012 and will mean that the apprenticeships will have written descriptions of learning outcomes for all study programmes. Institutions are also required to establish Councils for cooperation with the labour market, advice to help promote the relevance of studies to the labour market, which is an important aspect of education quality. I believe that a good link between cooperation with the labour market and the development of learning outcomes descriptions is important. Learning outcomes must be tailored to the needs of society and students, and I follow this up with the institutions. The student evaluations, to which this is an example, are an important part of the quality work in the university and higher education sectors. Workshops report annually on the results of the evaluations to the Ministry of Knowledge. The impression here is that many students are happy with the teaching. We also have to take into account that the students are adults who have a responsibility for their own learning. Studies show that Norwegian students spend relatively little time on the studies on average. I think it's important that the institutions make clear demands, not only for themselves, but also for the students. The qualification framework with associated learning outcomes descriptions will be important to make visible what the students are expected to have of knowledge, skills and competence when the education is completed. I mean by this that we show that the Ministry of Knowledge in cooperation with universities and colleges and NOKUT – our quality assurance body – is doing a lot to ensure the student situation. The reason why we, among other things, create such a barometer as Warloe raises questions about, both that the institutions themselves should be able to see how students at their institutions experience guidance and follow-up, and that, of course, it gives us a signal that this is an important follow-up point for us too. Because it is a goal that you should receive guidance and be followed up as a student. It was, as I said, a very central starting point of the Quality Reform, on which there was, moreover, broad political agreement, regardless of the state councils, which have submitted reports on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e409	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The last thing she said, namely that there was a broad political consensus on the quality reform when it was adopted, is quite clear. There was also a broad political consensus on the perception of the situation and the need for some – to say – quality promotion measures in relation to structure, management systems and the relationship between students and institutions, etc. So there have been a number of big messages. I found the Ministry's assessment of this theme that I have now addressed in this short-term interpellation in connection with St.meld. No 35 for 2001–2002, which was one of these communications, which reads: ‘Implementation of the quality reform involves a closer follow-up, guidance and feedback to the individual student. In subjects with many students at the bachelor level where there has been no tradition of close student follow-up, quality reform will lead to increased teaching activity.’ This was just one of the realities that many students reported, and that became a problem for the sector even in a period of strong student growth, by entering a system in which you felt alienated. You weren't taken care of, you didn't get any follow-up, you felt like you might have made the wrong choices, the drop-off was big, etc. There was obviously a need to do something. Just in today's political debate, we have now received a big message about high school focusing on the transition from high school, i.e. primary school, to secondary school. At the time it was about the huge shock of coming from a high school with organized education, clear demands and expectations, progress, etc., progress, into a university environment where you were completely left to yourself – to put it at the head. This was a major political consensus on the need to intervene. Then I agree with the Council of State that what we now know is the student's perception of the matter. Now I think that students may be the most important users of universities, and whether their perception – let's say – is completely objective or not, can certainly be discussed. It's in any case interesting to see how they're taking care of their places of study. It's important. But there may be other aspects of the matter that it might be interesting to get more knowledge about. I have not, in my interpellation, questioned whether these numbers are correct. I've only referred to it as the public opinion of principals at the universities. They question some of this description of reality, and the principals are also interesting actors in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e427	It was an important goal when we developed the Research Barometer, that we should use existing collected data. Then you can discuss how good that material is. I have mentioned some weaknesses in the very investigation that concerns this. I think it's good that the principals also debate, because you're being compared to each other. That's what inspires not only to get better yourself, but perhaps also to talk to each other about what factors it is that are playing in order for it to be good results. In this candidate survey, of which feedback and guidance are part, it also comes one day that it is the major universities, among others. NTNU and the University of Oslo, which have little pleasure, are the students at the University of Agder and at the University of Ås. Here's the basis for many speculations about what's going on. But anyway, the feedback in this survey is that about 60 pst. by all those who have been asked are very satisfied with the education. I also put a certain emphasis on that, although of course it will not remove the basis from the fact that we have a challenge in relation to feedback and guidance. But that's exactly what Mr. Warloe says. It was probably chaotic and difficult conditions before the Mjös Committee produced its report, which was the starting point for the entire Quality Reform. The aim was just to get a better quality and a better thoughtful follow-up of the students. The first evaluation we had after the reform had worked for a few–three years showed that it was a good development compared to what it was before. But I'm the first to admit that we need evaluations now, also of a broader kind than the study from the NIFU STEP. I hope the Research Barometer can help bring the debate up to what questions are to be asked, and what we should know more about. I also hope that we may be given an opportunity not so long to get an even wider evaluation of how the quality reform works. I put my trust in that we might get some important information when we now also ask those who actually run the guidance and follow-up, about how much time they spend on this. Then the image will be a little bit more complete than it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e438	Warloe asks questions about the view of the Research Barometer and the conclusions expressed there in order to improve the situation for the students. A lot has happened in the university and higher education sectors to improve the situation for students. Quality reform was groundbreaking in providing students with good opportunities for professional follow-up. Follow-up has become closer and students appear to be a more integrated part of the professional environment than before. At the same time, the educational cycle has become clearer, so that there is a clearer distinction between research-driven education and the more labour-oriented part of education. The fact that there have been clearer courses of education for students and greater international harmonisation shows the great need for this reform. It is important to clarify whether the candidates are satisfied with the feedback and guidance provided in the reform. At the same time, there are two factors that I also consider important. One is to put it in context with the education and follow-up that is actually given, and the other is – without having to be a parachute to give poor follow-up – that at many universities and colleges there is a desire that education should also be based on its own ability to develop and understand problems. This system shall have special emphasis on professional autonomy. There will be differences between different disciplines in how they follow up students in relation to the quality reform, and it is important to monitor how different educational institutions and directions manage their responsibilities. Here, I actually think it's important to follow, so that the students get the follow-up to be given in different directions. The staff of universities and colleges have been asked to indicate how much time they spend on different tasks, including the follow-up of students. Then, as the Council of State said, we will also have research that sees this on the part of employees, and we will get a more comprehensive picture of the situation. Universities and higher education institutions are obliged to evaluate the quality of their education. The institution's quality assurance systems are very central in this context, and I am absolutely sure that the department will follow this closely, including: with the efforts they have in research in this area. We also address the evaluation of the quality reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e449	I thank the representative for addressing this matter. Now it is that the Progress Party sees great importance in reports that can tell us something about the situation and the state of the various sectors. This applies not least to reports where the users themselves are heard. However, in line with the questioner, I react to the fact that there seems to have been little or no communication between the institutions and those who have conducted the study. The Rector of the University of Oslo points out that the Ministry of Knowledge invited on 17 March to a conference on «Knowledge for the Future» in which a document, the 2011 Research Barometer, was presented at the conference. So for most of us, it came ‘as the Christmas Eve itself on the ring’, says the headmaster of the University of Oslo. The research barometer is a 96-page description of the state of Norwegian research and universities. The barometer is to be updated annually, so an annual health check has been introduced for Norwegian universities and higher education institutions. Now they have their first health report. It contains not only a bundle of indicators but also subjective assessments of the quality of Norwegian universities as research and education institutions. And all this without the institutions, which in this case is the patient, being asked about their condition. Many institutions themselves carry out study quality measurements and processes for the development of study quality. These should also be emphasised. The quality of studies is primarily a responsibility for the institutions themselves. Good study quality is necessary to get students to apply to the institutions, and they should therefore have a high self-interest in working with the quality of their studies. The action space committee shows that the university's operating space is weakened under the red-green government. This has confronted the institutions with a situation where they need to downgrade either the quality of their studies or research. In order to avoid weakening the staff, one might assume that some priority is given to the quality of education. But the quality reform has led to increased flow. The fact that students actually complete one degree as soon as possible, the Progress Party also believes is of great importance. Nor can one ignore the fact that today’s students are more demanding and politically competent than before, and therefore consider their education more stringent than before. We must also take this into account in relation to the student's answer. But it is important to bear in mind that there is always an improvement potential, and that it is therefore important to take the signals that come from the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e466	The interpellant addresses a central theme that is important that the Stortinget also pays greater attention as an awarding authority. If we are committed to ensuring a higher education system in Norway that maintains high quality also measured against education systems in other countries, we also need to look inwards into our own institutional series in order to gain knowledge of how the system works and delivers. For the right, it is important to establish that the education system is not for itself, but for the students who represent tomorrow's labour force in a labour market that requires more and more of the individual employee. When Stortinget dealt with the Education Line, the focus was on society's need for more and more competent labour. It is also a reality that more and more young people are taking higher education. It must also be said to be a trend that you no longer settle down with a bachelor degree. More and more go on to master's studies. One of several expressions of quality in education is undoubtedly the satisfaction of the students. In the recently published Research Barometer, only one in four students are satisfied with the way they are being followed up by the university. In the Right's view, it's worrying. The starting point for the quality reform in higher education was precisely to improve the follow-up of the students in order to gain greater focus on the studies, improve the professional performance of the students and contribute to the completion of several courses in normal time. It is therefore a setback for the quality reform when students so massively express that they do not get the expected and necessary follow-up from their places of study. In 2010, the number of students in Norway increased to 207 000, which is a growth of nearly 20,000 in three years. There is little doubt that the increase in the number of students in recent years is a significant challenge for many of the country's universities and colleges. Much indicates that this growth is affecting the students. The right has long warned the government that this could happen if the sector is not secured more realistic economic frameworks as student inflows increase. Last week we might have received a new reminder of the need for good student follow-up. In the annual state report of the Department of Knowledge for the higher education sector, the figures show that on average 85 pst. by the Bachelor's degree students complete in normal time. Corresponding numbers for the Master's students at the universities are 72 pst. At higher education, however, the number is significantly lower, with only half of the master’s students performing in a normal time. Then we have to ask ourselves why. In recent years, we have given considerable attention to implementation in higher education because we are concerned about all those who are not completing, and what are the consequences. The time is obviously in order to also focus more on higher education implementation, both in the interests of society, who need the labour force, and in the interests of the students, who are not coming to the goal of their studies as planned. Our higher education institutions should therefore put this issue even higher on their agenda. The aim of the Quality Reform was greater proximity between the professionals in the sector and the students because we know that it seems a positive, motivating force for the student. But, of course, the Council of State is quite right in saying that it is also the responsibility of the students to give priority to their studies through presence and through work, in order to achieve the best possible results. From a social point of view, it is positive that education levels in the population are increasing, but there is still reason to stress that many sectors of society also depend entirely on skilled personnel. Therefore, it is a challenge over time to find the right balance between different educations at different levels. At the same time, it is a reality that the skills requirements for many jobs in society that already require higher education and university education also increase further. This means that the university and higher education sectors must take their social responsibility seriously and contribute to meeting the students with up-to-date and research-based education and experience that the staff of the institutions are there for them throughout the course of the study. Similarly, institutions must meet the active part of the population with relevant continuing training provision in order to meet an increased need for skills in society in general. These students are also entitled to good follow-up in order to succeed in their studies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e497	We've got an interesting question to discuss, and so far we've had a debate that has made us discuss higher education and research a little bit more generally, but it just makes the debate even more interesting and useful for us in this committee. As stated by the Council of State, there is now a time-use survey of all scientific staff. It will be useful for us to get such up-to-date data. So far, we know that the employees claim that they work a lot – they work a lot and too much. We get clear messages from the trade unions about this, but we also get it from the management of most colleges and universities. So then we're in a situation where many of the employees feel a little skewed in time, when you're going to research, you're going to be better at communication, you're going to manage and lead better than you do today, and then you're going to have to teach and guide. A lot of people think this isn't going to go all the way up. It is not possible to do everything as well as you could wish, or do it well enough in relation to the requirements that are out and going. And one thing is what the individual employee feels and reports about this, it's interesting data that we have to assume, but we also have other contributions to this debate that will say a little bit about what kind of situation we're facing. The Fagerberg Committee has concluded that there are too many researchers. We are still being told in the media that it is being communicated too little and too poorly. So now we have a message from the students that they think they are getting too little attention, and we sometimes hear from the employees that they think students give the teaching too little attention, etc. So this is an interesting and important debate. Data update is fine. I have noticed in particular that the student organisations have raised an interesting question on a timely basis, about the correct, increased attention that we have given to research lately, and which we clearly see has turned out to be very positive, perhaps something has gone beyond education. In this regard, I think it's interesting to go to the Fagerberg committee, which has been assigned to give us a report where you've philosophized a little bit about the benefits of research. It says on the s. 101 that one of the main benefits of research is linked to the educational activity of our higher education institutions. They formulate it in such a way that the great social benefit of research lies not least in all the educated candidates. I like that entrance very much, because we can often operate with a kind of contrast: I think the individual employee often feels that it is a contrast – whether he should spend time on research, or on education. Maybe we should view this more as an interaction. There is no doubt that good teaching and guidance require good interaction, good relationships, between the one giving such instruction and the students who are to receive such instruction. Similarly, I believe that research is also absolutely necessary. We have some interesting discussions in this way, not least if you're going to involve students in research. This can help to clarify the distinction between teachers and students, and a little distinction can be made between education and research, not least in a country such as Norway, which may have a stronger ambition than any other country for higher education to be research-based. So I think it's important that we maybe redefine this debate a little bit and just get the useful and good and important interaction that we have to have between research and education to make this right. And similarly, to make this work, the scientific staff – the scientist and the teacher on the one hand, and the student on the other – need to view this more as an interaction and cooperation than one who provides, and the other sits and accepts. So I look forward to a further debate on this, among other things. related to the completion and presentation of this study, and not least to the suspension of the Fagerberg Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e512	This was not a long debate, and there was perhaps no reason to wait either, on a quiet day here on the Stortinget, with fine weather and much else happening. But I would like to thank those who have taken part in the debate, however, for there have been several interesting articles. If I can comment on some of what Aksel Hagen now said: I think it's an interesting topic, which at least we from the Right want to discuss further, with Aksel Hagen and others in the Committee, that is, the slightly artificial and strange distinction between research and education, that is, the attitude you might have in the sector that there are two very different activities here. I think it might be a different culture for some foreign and prestigious universities, and that kind of problem might be interesting to look at. We have these concepts that I know that students' figures and trust-elects are somewhat ironic, namely that they are called research-free and compulsory education. In other words, when you research, you have the great freedom, and then you get to do what you prefer, while when you teach, you have to perform an angry duty. Of course, that's not what it's supposed to be, but it might say something about a position that's been in the Norwegian university sector before. So I want to say that we on the Right fully agree that it is important that the institutions make demands on the students, and that we do it as a society. Education costs, especially training of good quality costs. It also costs students, and it is important that students succeed, for society and for their own part. Now I know that Minister of Industry Trond Giske, who claims to have fathered the Quality Reform, also said in an interview with Bergen's Official Journal last autumn that Norwegian students have for the longest time introduced the six-hour day and go for half machine, while he has been in China and seen Chinese students reading all night, and that should be exemplary. I might want to challenge the Council of State whether she shares that perception of Norwegian students versus Chinese. And then, finally, the Council of State also said that we need more knowledge, we need broader evaluations. The number base so far provides the basis for many speculations, and of course we're not going to do that here in the Storting, we're going to deal with the facts. I would probably like a big message about the status of higher education, perhaps in parallel with the research report, which the Council of State said would come in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e524	As the interpellant said in his first post, there are many themes in the Research Barometer for further follow-up. I have noticed the interest in this, and should of course make my point that Stortinget is given the basis for such discussions. The first thing we do now is – after the Fagerberg Committee has provided its investigation – to get a good interaction and interaction between this research barometer and the research barometer contained in the report of the Fagerberg Committee, because we need good indicators of both research and education. I have to say I was a little surprised by the article from Bente Thorsen, which could almost be interpreted so that the research barometer is full of subjective assessments. I'd rather say that it's full of facts, and the few subjective departmental assessments that may be are, of course, of course. The starting point for the question of the interpellant today. The barometer states that there is reason to ask whether the institutions have succeeded in the quality reform's intention of closer follow-up of the students. We've just made a number that it shouldn't be subjective assessments, but facts presented, so we have to tolerate those facts, whether they tell us the truth one way or the other. And this candidate study has made it clear that the students are not particularly satisfied with their follow-up and guidance. But there are a number of other issues students are satisfied with, among other things. they are quite satisfied with the training as such and with the teaching place as such. The score is several times higher. NIFU is dealing with these questions over a longer period of time, and it may be very interesting to follow this further. I think we agree on the goal, namely that follow-up and guidance of the students should be important. I also think that the representative of Aspaker raised some interesting questions about non-retirement also in higher education. We have to dry to discuss it. It is important to discuss early school leave, but it is also important to be aware of the dropout — and to combat the dropout — in higher education. So I fully agree with the representative that it is a central issue that we also have on the agenda. Finding the right balance between the different levels of education is something we are doing, for example: in the relationship between post-secondary education, between bachelor's education, master's education and doctoral education in our higher education institutions. There is always an important assessment that needs to be made, where we put the most attention, and how should this balance be. Last but not least, there should be interactions between research and education, which Aksel Hagen was also involved in. My vision of it is that our colleges – hopefully – set the best researchers to teach in the first year of the students, so that students are really motivated by good professors and researchers, and that it is a rule rather than an exception.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e539	The debate on substance is closed. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e545	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e590	In Case No: 2 and 3 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-10.ana.ud1897e602	There is no record.
