ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e63	The representatives of Inbjørg Godskesen, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Janne Sjelmo Nordås, Torgeir Tjäldal, Hadia Tajik, Torfinn Opheim and Bendiks H. Arnesen, who has been licensed, have again taken their seats. Five permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative Sonja Mandt on 23 and 24 May to attend the meeting of the Nordic Council in Copenhagen from the representative Borghild Tende on welfare leave from 23 May to 1 June from the Höres Storingsgruppe on health leave for the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli from 23 May onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Progressive Party on health leave for the representative Karin S. Woldseth from 23 May onwards and until further notice from the Group of the Socialist Left on health leave for the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen from 23 May until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Bente Stein Mathisen and Abid Q. RajaFor Hordaland County: Torcil ÅlandFor South Trondelag County: Aud Herbjørg KvalvikFor Westfold County: Heidi Ørnlo
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e149	Bente Stein Mathisen, Abid Q. Raja, Torkil Åmland, Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik and Heidi Ørnlo are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e157	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e171	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e180	The Committee has examined proposals from the representatives of the Grand Duchy of Olemic Thommess and Linda C. Hofstad Helleland on parental death in the event of the death of children. The proposal is based on a change in the Law on Social Security, which guarantees the right of both parents to take leave together immediately after the death of the child during the pension period for parental killers. The idea of the parental pension scheme after the death of the child is to prevent a sudden interruption of the intended leave and therefore, in the first place, to the person on leave at the time of the child’s death. The rules applicable to parental leave also apply for this period. That is, the first six weeks after birth are reserved for mother for health reasons. Parenticide beds at the death of children cover situations other than those referred to by the proposers, where parents receive benefits to be at home with children. Both care allowances for both parents and additional social benefits for multiple births are schemes that are justified by the fact that in these cases there is a need for care for children that suggests that both parents should be at home together for a period of time. Therefore, it would be natural for a possible scheme in which both parents receive support for being at home together after a child’s death in order to deal with grief not to be linked to today’s parental pension scheme. Nor is there any reason to believe that the need for parents in such a situation is very different whether the child is newborn or whether the child is elderly. That is why the majority does not support the proposal in this matter. I would think that everyone here has a very great sympathy with those who experience the great grief it is to lose a child. It is important to ensure that these do not fall between existing schemes. Here, health services also have an important role to play as a guide to these issues. If we are to look at an arrangement for parents who lose their children, it would be natural that such a scheme does not discriminate against parents who lose their children during the parental period, and parents who experience this after this period is over. That is why the majority has submitted these observations in the case and does not support the proposal from the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e193	Although the proposers are not present in the Chamber, the Progress Party and I are very pleased that this important topic is being addressed. It's a problem that may not hit so many, but for those who are hit, it's very serious. I am basically disappointed that the government is unable to comply more fully with the proposal, for example. by looking at what to do with this issue. Losing a child must be one of the worst things that can happen to parents. Therefore, it is unreasonable that today we have legislation that is, in addition, an additional burden in the time when you actually need to take care of the loss. That is why the proposers and the Progress Party believe that there is a need for a review of the legislation we have today. The fact that mother and father are discriminated against in the legislation is not good. Having time and space to process grief is important. Taking care of each other in such a life crisis is also very important. So we know that the situation today is that very many of the fathers get sick in such a situation. It is great that there may be a system for this, but the Progress Party believes that it is not right to use the medical system in such a situation. We should not erode the healthcare system, and therefore it is important that a regulation be put in place that also takes care of father in this situation. When the rapporteur also says that you fall between two chairs, I see that the case rapporteur and the government sees and admits that this is a problem issue. It's important that they do something about it. Finding arrangements that meet the needs of parents when children die so that they can function as quickly as possible in everyday life and be able to return to their daily activities is important. For this reason, the Progress Party will support the proposers and will address the minority proposals under consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e206	The representative Solvency Horne has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e209	The rapporteur, Ramsøy, has explained the majority's views on this matter. I just wanted to take the word short for a couple of considerations. Like the others who have spoken, I want to express empathy for those who experience some of the worst things you can experience: losing a child. Then I react a little to the fact that the representative Horne believes that getting a medical report in connection with the loss of a child is a hollowing out of the medical system. What about those who lose older children or lose children under the parental pension scheme, and get a medical report? It cannot be said to be a hollowing-out of the sickness benefit scheme. Because of this, we want to see these issues in different contexts than the parental leave scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e218	I refer to the rapporteur's review, and I think much of what is said by the majority, insofar as it is comprehensive of the assessments that the Christian People's Party wants to express in the matter. However, the rapporteur also said that in order to carry out such an assessment of the legislation relating to parental benefits at the death of children, there should be a broader review than that related only to the parental pension scheme. That is why the Christian People’s Party supports a proposal that asks for such a review. We think it might be useful. Based on the feedback that the committee has received, we believe that such a review is worth taking. I also hope that the government can see the need to go through it. I think we're going to go into this issue with great humility for what a child's death can actually lead to for an entire family, and for parents, and what kind of needs arise then. It will be individual, and different from family to family and from person to person. It's also hard for someone who hasn't been exposed to it to understand what it actually means. That's why I think it's important that we take the footage we get, and carefully evaluate how we can add up to systems and schemes that capture the different needs that different families and different parents will face in such a context. From that point of view, I also refer to the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e227	This is a proposal that is primarily about facilitating parents who lose their child and are in a very difficult situation in life. The proposal for amendments presented by the Right shall provide more flexibility for parents over a difficult period of time. In the event of the death of a child within the period of parental leave, parents shall have a total period of up to six weeks of leave. The functioning of today's legislation does not allow both parents to withdraw this leave at the same time, cf. § 14-10, and the father cannot take out his part of the leave for the first six weeks after birth, cf. § 14-9. This is because the weeks are reserved for mother for health reasons. The right believes that each of the parents in those cases where children die during the social welfare period must be able to take out their three weeks of leave at the same time, immediately after the child's death if they wish. Exemptions from these rules on simultaneous withdrawals and withdrawals for father during the first six weeks are already available today in the case of multiple births. This is justified by the needs of the children. But what about the need for care for parents who have just lost a child? It is also the basis for the Right’s presentation and promotion of this proposal following a number of requests from parents who, in a very difficult situation in life, experience that the legislation is very difficult to deal with and makes it difficult in the weeks after they lose their child. And not least, we could have wanted the Council of State to look at and approach the issue in a different way, when we also know that several of the red-green politicians have had a desire to see how to change the legislation on this problem. The right does not see that this unfairness of the legislation has any major consequences or any impact on the cost of popular protection, and therefore wants to change the law in this area. The exceptions in this area already exist, and there is a paradox for parents who may have both received care allowance, that they suddenly no longer have any valid reason to be absent from work once the child has gone away. In the Right’s view, the premise for both parents’ need for leave in the care period after the death of the child is the same, and the legislation on simultaneous withdrawals should therefore be the same. This is probably an example of how laws and rules are put in front of people who are in a vulnerable situation. The rules are obviously unfair and affect the parents, not least the fathers, in an unlawful way, and it is not an intention that the law imposes on parents. Right wants to put the human being in the center, in front of the square interpretations of the law. It's a good and proper welfare policy. We are pleased that some in this room will support the proposal of the Right to a comprehensive review of the legislation in order to ensure that we can better facilitate the assistance and organisation of people who are in a particularly difficult situation once their child has gone away.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e240	The matter of Stortinget's treatment today arouses strong feelings. It's a deep tragedy when a little child dies. That is why I basically sympathise with the proposers and it is important that we have a debate on this issue. There is nothing worse for parents than losing a child, and I agree with the proposers that both parents are equally affected by such an unfortunate incident. However, I do not believe that the answer to the problem raised by the proposers lies in the parental death penalty system. So the parental leave runs for up to six weeks after such a death. It gives the parent who is on leave the opportunity to change and, if necessary, to agree with the employer a previous return to work than provided for. When the child dies during the first six weeks after birth, it will be the mother who is on leave and who is entitled to the social benefit period after the child's death. If the child dies later, there may be a father who is on leave and who is entitled to this period of benefit. That is why I do not agree with the rapporteurs that the system discriminates against fathers. Except in the first six weeks of mother's protection, parents may share the period. They may not, as you know, take out full parent beds at the same time, but they may, for example: work half-time and extract 50 pst. a parent kills each. In case of stillbirth, father is entitled to two weeks of care leave in the same way as when the child is alive. There are many fathers who pay from the employer during that leave. People react differently and have different needs in situations like the one we're talking about. For some, it might be best to resume a normal everyday life as quickly as possible. Others go into a heavy grieving process that causes them to lose their jobs and therefore leads to a medical report. I think it is important to stress that the search of parents in a situation where the child dies is not to be regarded as an abuse of sick pay. It must be perfectly legitimate to get sick in such a situation, and no one shall be subjected to the additional burden of suspected circumvention of the legislation. I therefore believe that we need a discussion like this. It is important to clarify the situation of parents who experience such a tragedy. But I can't both for the reasons I've explained here, and because the parental pension scheme is only designed for the newborns, see that it's the parental pension scheme that's the right system to strengthen the follow-up of these parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e253	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e256	The letter of consultation from the National Association of Unexpected Infant Deaths shows that the legislation discriminates between mother and father. The Advance Party believes that mother and father are equivalent caregivers and that the legislation should treat both mother and father in a non-discriminatory manner, as far as possible. Now, in his speech, the Council of State said that he did not agree that there was a discrimination in the law. My question to the Council of State is quite simply: Why does the Council of State not agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e264	Parental care legislation is aimed at providing the best possible care for children. For various reasons, the scheme does not provide for the country to pay for the simultaneous home of both parents. So this is the purpose of today's parental legislation. When mother has a special protection during the first weeks after birth, there are obvious biological reasons – that a birth is tough. In addition, the State does not provide any other guidance than that there is only one parent who can receive parental leave at a time. Then, in my view, it is not discriminatory that the principle applies in all cases. That's one of the reasons why I don't think it's the parental pension scheme, which is a benefit geared towards another situation, which is the right scheme if you want to strengthen the welfare situation of parents who experience losing a child.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e269	I want to ask the Council of State whether the government will look at the legislation on the death of children, regardless of this proposal for a representative. You can get the impression that the legislation works, and that it is good enough to take care of these parents, whether a child's death occurs immediately after birth, or it happens during the first year of parental leave. The reason I have a concern about this is that we get a lot of messages from these parents that they are meeting a bureaucracy and a code that is not adapted to the situation they have been in – of course – unexpectedly. Therefore, I want to know if the government has any thoughts that you should take a review.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e276	As I said in my post, I have a great deal of understanding that the matter is dealt with in the Storting, precisely because the enquiries of the Right Group have been received, the same comes to others. It's a real problem, which I have a lot of understanding for parents to deal with. So we can imagine different ways of approaching this. Whoever the proposer has chosen, relating to the parental pension scheme, I do not agree, for the reasons I have explained. But that doesn't mean there can't be any other tracks that can be worth following. One is the discussion of whether the threshold for getting a search report in this situation is too high. The second question is, are there other arrangements that will make these parents better? When I say that I do not want to go further with this proposal, it is because I believe the parental pension scheme is wrong, but I do not exclude looking at other solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e283	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see page 4141]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e301	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e310	First, I would like to congratulate the Left and the representatives of the Skei Grande and the Ten for a good proposal for a representative, which is about increasing the competence of child protection. The Committee is divided into this section. I expect the various parties to explain their views, but I would like to say in the beginning that I am very pleased that the Left is supported by both the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right – and not least that we are promoting our own proposals together in line with the Left's intention to increase the competence of child protection. Like the proposers, Right-wing concerns about having child protection with major challenges are shared. The time has come to put in place stronger instruments to improve child protection. This proposal focuses on something that is very important: the need to raise competences. Our starting point is that improving the protection of children today is one of the most important public tasks to ensure that all children are safe and well-growthed. It is essential that those working in the field of child protection have good competence to ensure that children and young people receive the necessary assistance and care in a timely manner. Therefore, the concerns of the right-wing proposers regarding the movement of important professional competences from municipalities and to the protection of the state children are shared. Municipal Child Protection has a crucial role to play in providing early and fair responses to children and young people in need of help. It is the municipal child protection service that first reveals that young people need help and takes action. Therefore, the right is very concerned about strengthening the first line service in the field of child protection. That is also why, in the context of the 2011 state budget, we chose to increase the earmarked funds for municipalities by 160 million. kr in addition to what the government had proposed. Unfortunately, we see today that several municipalities have only one employee in the Child Welfare Service. This concerns the Right. We are afraid that too small child protection units in the municipality do not meet all the requirements of the Child Protection Act. Fortunately, many municipalities have extensive and well-known inter-municipal cooperation in the provision of child protection services in order to safeguard the rights of children in a good way. In terms of research, the Right is very pleased that the Left focuses on the lack of funding for research in this field. It is important that we know something about the measures that we are adopting and that these are the right actions. The right is of the opinion that significant funds need to be devoted to independent research of high quality, precisely because this is a field in which very little has been researched, and which we know too little about. A multiplicity of high-quality response apparatus must be our goal, but then we must know that we are putting in place the right measures. It is also important to show good professional child protection in order to ensure the legal certainty of the many different family forms in different cultures. Therefore, the Right – together with the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party – recently promoted a proposal that the recruitment of child protection workers with a multicultural background should be strengthened. We are also concerned about the importance of focusing fully on the best interests of children and the potential for influence in improving and strengthening the various basic education of child protection. It is particularly important for the Right to strengthen the rights and influence of children in the field of child protection. That is also why we have promoted a proposal for a representative to this effect, which is now under consideration in the Committee, and which we hope the parties in government will support, so that we can have a majority in favour of such a proposal. Different programmes and institutional concepts are implemented in the field of child protection without sufficient evidence of efficacy and results. We also hope that the government wants to do something about it. In conclusion, I would like to say that I am pleased that the Left has promoted the proposal. This is a good proposal, which is supported by the Right on many points. I would like to take up with this the proposals that have been made by the Right with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e340	The representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland has addressed the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e343	In order for us to provide the best protection for the children and young people in Norway who need it, we need to work constantly to improve child protection. There are a lot of good people working in child protection today, and we have to do our job so that all those who work and want to work in child protection can access knowledge development and empowerment. I'm glad the government has done, done and will do a lot in this area. Several places in the country have a new set of work methods. One of them has been given additional resources to improve their skills, one of them has been given several robust professional environments, and one of them has been given more skills. Then we're forced to keep our eyes open to the challenges we know are there. And what I totally agree with the representative of Hofstad Helleland is that the most important task for the public is to ensure a competent and good child protection that ensures a safe and healthy upbringing for all children and young people. It is not without reason that the Department and Government have taken the initiative of a full review of child protection – of structure and of content. Nor is it without reason that we strengthen child protection in the budget. Nor is it without reason that for the first time a user survey has been conducted where a listener listens to what my children are saying, and how foster parents do. Nor is it for no reason that the Ministry is in the process of reviewing the NOU on the development of child protection competences. It is quite clear that competence is one of the most important building blocks in good professional child protection. A key factor in raising skills is making new knowledge easily accessible and easy to find and use in the day-to-day practical work — for child-retirement, educational institutions and for others working with vulnerable children and young people. As an example, a national Children’s Protection and Family Protection web library has been established. A new resource page, Child Protection.com, has also been created, which is a resource page for anyone interested in up-to-date child protection information. I believe that the government and not least the Council of State Lightbakken have seen an important focus on child protection in recent years, and an important focus also on the situation around the need for further strengthening and empowerment through several rounds in the Storting, in the media and also in announcements. There is a joint committee which believes that empowerment in the municipal child protection service is important and which also brings together evidence that the municipalities have been given the opportunity to apply for more funding in 2011. The quality of basic training is central to the quality of child protection we receive. There is a big message coming to the fall, which will be about the profession of the welfare state, and which will be very important for the quality of both child protection, care and social protection training. This message should we look forward to. But it's not like it's standing still while we wait. For example, childcare education has also changed and developed in recent years, for example. as the signatures took some study scores within this direction. Both syllabus and structure have developed, and the need for further strengthening is clearly important. A clear commitment that the quality of child protection should be the same throughout the country is that education is the same throughout the country. It is not acceptable that there are so many variations between educational institutions as there are today. We are clear that one is required to ensure a better quality of education, regardless of the place of study. Finally, I would like to say something to it with a robust and less vulnerable professional environment. Clearly, it is important to make the environment more robust. The children's room has expressed this at several conditions. The government has encouraged several municipalities to establish intercommunal cooperation, and many have made good and positive experiences after they have joined forces. I think this is important, because it's municipal child protection, as an example, that's responsible for foster homes, which are going to follow them up, evaluate them and guide them. Then I think without a doubt that larger and more robust professional environments, among other things. will help to strengthen the quality of this work, as an example, and the potential for good interaction with the different foster homes. I also believe that getting a job in the municipal childcare service, especially in the districts, can be more attractive in this way. In my own region, in West Telemark, child protection has merged. This is a strength for the districts, for those who work there, and not least for the children it is for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e364	I sat and looked at the papers as I was going to write the article on this matter, for this is a topic that has been affected in this room quite many times in recent months. I guess that's about. Four months ago we had a big debate after the presentation to the Council of State Lighthouse on the situation in child protection. As the Council of State has probably understood, the opposition, like the majority government, is concerned about child protection. Nevertheless, the opposition is quite impatient about the fact that something is happening in the field of child protection. That's why today we see a very good proposal from the Left, with a slightly different angle. There is not so much talk about foster families and other things in child protection in the proposal under consideration here today, but it is about a good professional child protection. What is one of the most important tasks of today's child protection is that child protection should take care of the children who really need the state to go in and help them. These are the most vulnerable children we're talking about here. Therefore, it is so important that the child protection we have should ensure a safe and well-growthed child. The Children's Act clearly states that those who live under unsustainable conditions will receive the necessary assistance and care they require in a timely manner. Therefore, it is very important that those who are employed in child protection outside the municipalities have the right professional competence and the right position for the work that they are going to do. That is why the debate we are now having on the professional aspects of child protection is very important. What we also see is that child protection has tremendous power over these families. That's why we see that there are a lot of desperate parents — grandparents too — who feel that child protection has done a great deal to their lives by taking the children out of the family. That's why it's so important that we have a child protection that does the job it's supposed to do, on the right basis. Then, as the previous speaker also said, we have a challenge that there are a lot of small environments out there, small municipalities that don't do the job they're set to do. We know that they need skills enhancement, they need new expertise. However, it is not easy for an employee in a municipality who may have only one or two employees in the protection of the child, to be exempted from the promotion of competence. Therefore, it is an important debate in relation to small and large municipalities and intermunicipal cooperation that we have good professional competence in place – regaining the professional competence of child protection in the municipalities. The proposers are concerned with the important issue that we need to get the professional competence back to the municipalities. We have seen that very much of the professional competence has gone to state child protection, where wages are completely different from what the municipalities have. We also see that state child protection often outstrips municipal child protection services. That's not a good path. It is important that the municipalities, which are first-line services, easily get access to people with child protection skills, because the best interests of the children also need to be considered. Buf has developed a lot of good programs that don't use all the municipalities. Therefore, it is important that municipal and state child protection play a role to do the best for the child. A theme on which the proposers are concerned in the field of child protection education is to increase quality. Maybe we should look at it in the light of whether those who take this education must also have some practice. It's not as easy to be re-educated and then go straight into a family and say how things should work, without having the right practice, so it's also important to look at. It's also important to think about child protection. It was a good article in Stavanger Aftenblad on Saturday from someone who works in the Bufetat region west, considering that we need more increase in family councils and participation. It's the family councils that Bufetat is going to have in the regions. But then it's important, as I've also said before, that municipal and state child protection talk together, and that more and more municipalities use this tool. It's important for the families, not least for the children. We often see that there are some parents who tell their municipality that they want family advice, because they have heard about it. When the municipalities say: No, they do not – it does not have the municipality – it is not good enough. It should now be used by all municipalities, because it has proved to be effective in relation to the best of the child.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e383	I note that there is a great deal of excitement around the fact that it is important to bet on child protection here in the hall. May that integration continue into future governments, even if the opposition is so fortunate to assume responsibility for child protection, so that we never again experience that child protection becomes a budget deficit in any government budget! I think one of the most difficult jobs you can have is being employed in child protection. You make difficult decisions every day. It is easy to imagine that it is not an easy task to decide whether to intervene in a family or not. Sometimes the solutions are obvious, sometimes less obvious. That is why I want to take advantage of the opportunity to thank those who work in child protection, for the job they do. Every day, child protection workers help Norway to become a better country to live in, both for those young people in need of help and for us others, who are given the opportunity to live in a better society. Such decisions require competence. There is no doubt about it, not only if action is needed, but also what measures work. Then we're back to a paradox we're always talking about, and that's that the better child protection becomes, the more trust we have in child protection, the more child protection gets. It requires more competence and demands more staff. That is why SV and the government have put a heavy strain on child protection. We're going to have 400 new positions in municipal child protection during 2011. There are jobs that are needed, each and every one of them, and it provides more robust professional environments. We've distributed 35 million. SEK for competence measures, and there are still 17 million. on the basis of a number of competence measures. In terms of quality in education, I agree with the proposer that this is important. The Ministry of Knowledge is now following up the proposals of the Befring Committee's report on the development of child protection competences. Like the representative Vågslid, I look forward to the announcement of education and training for the welfare country's professions, which I believe will be important and relevant in this context. We need to know more about what it's like to be in child protection, both as an employee and as a foster parent, but not least about being a child in child protection. So it's the first time that someone's been asking children about their experiences systematically, how they feel that their rights are being respected, and how they experience being heard. It's high time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e396	Child protection employees have a very important and, not least, responsible job. They shall be able to see whether children are exposed to care failure, whether there is something that is not correct in the home, put in proper action early enough and not least provide proper advice and help in a timely manner. Then it's important that those who work in child protection have a high level of competence, but also that you actually have time, opportunity and space to take advantage of the skills you actually possess. Because I'm going to think that even today there are very high levels of competence among many people working in child protection, but you have a challenge because you just have a little too few people and a little too little time. In the 2011 government budget, the government has spent money earmarked for strengthening municipal child protection, where new jobs have been prioritised, but it has also been possible to apply for funds for other measures. Coordination and cooperation across different municipalities will also be very important here, because it is precisely when these different people with different competences are put together that something really needs to be done. Thirty-five million. kr has already been allocated to competence measures. Municipalities have applied for funds for procedural competence, professional competence, guidance and organisational measures, and there is still money left. It is precisely this combination of measures that help to increase competence and increase the number of municipal child protection posts that help to make this service as robust as it should be. The government has also put in place important measures to make new knowledge easily accessible to those employed in child protection, educational institutions and others working with vulnerable children and young people. It is therefore important to mention the establishment of a National Library for the Protection of the Child and Family, and the establishment of websites to disseminate important knowledge and up-to-date information on the job in the field of child protection. The government is following up NOU 2009:8, the development of child protection competences, and is working to increase the quality of basic education. It is already referred to the review that has been notified. So, in this case we are discussing child protection – as in almost all matters that have been discussed in this Chamber in the last year and that deal with the topic – that we in the majority believe that many of these measures are already under way by the government. So much indicates that a total increase agrees on many of these measures. Then you might disagree a little bit about both priority and speed, etc., but it's probably in the nature of the matter, based on sitting in government and being in opposition. I think it is a good thing that we are relatively united about the measures that the opposition wants. At the same time, it is important to stress that the government is working very well in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e409	The families and the parents are the arena where the kids are cared for. That is precisely why neither is a young person more vulnerable than when parents do not have the power to care for it. The more demanding is the task of child protection in those cases, the more quality is required of the services that we, as a society, are to provide. There is a great deal of good work in child protection throughout the country every single day. As is well known, the Christian People's Party has presented proposals for a stepping-up plan for full child protection. Full child protection means enough capacity in municipal child protection to deal with all the concerns and to deal with all the issues within the deadlines and with good quality. Full child protection means enough capacity in the counties to deal with matters within the time limits. It probably means supervisors, enough foster homes, enough institutions of good quality, and that means proper after-care. The Christian People's Party does not believe that it is possible to carry out such an ambition without making a proper escalation plan, without making deadlines, and without defining it as a priority political project. The government has taken many price-effective initiatives in the field of child protection, including: by evaluating the structure of child protection. There is a big message at the end of the period that is about boxes, arrows and organisation charts in child protection, which are important enough in themselves. It'll be an important message. However, we have not received any signals that that message should have the final ambition and that one should notify a child-restraint plan with deadlines for reaching the targets. If it were to come, it would be very happy. But if it comes, it is unfortunately after the government has been sitting and working on child protection for almost eight years. The Christian People's Party is calling for escalation, the Christian People's Party is calling for ambitions, the Christian People's Party is calling for deadlines, and the Christian People's Party is calling for action and priority for child protection. Then it will be essential that such stepping up and bets be accompanied by a focus on quality and competence. It therefore serves the left to the credit that proposals have been put forward that point to a number of important points in order to strengthen the competence of child protection. The government has reduced a sample and handed over the NOU 2009:8 position on child protection competences, and we expect that the various proposals can be evaluated and put to work. The government works with that, as we know. A lot of this is urgent, and it's important to get started very quickly. I refer to the Council of State's reply to the committee's questions in committee. Here the Committee questions whether there is enough training capacity to train professionals to step up municipal child protection. The Council of State has pointed out on several occasions – if I do not remember correctly – that there is a need for 1,500 posts over time in municipal child protection. In the response of the Council of State, it is apparent that the Department has consulted the Ministry of Knowledge, which according to the letter has not received signals that the capacity of child protection education has been too low. The Governments shall reply to the Committee by: ‘Based on the assumptions we are familiar with today, educational capacity is sufficient to meet future needs. We will follow developments closely." It takes time to train more professionals, but I think the answer bears the mark of just a lack of overview and a lack of ambition. One should show that the right hand knows what the left does, and that the department, which actually educates the professionals, has worked with the department responsible for the child protection law and stepping up the resources, so that we know that in a few years we can have enough competence in the right places to provide the most vulnerable young people with high-quality services.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e431	I'm imagining that neither the president, the state councils nor any other gamblers have self-experienced experiences as a child protection child. The way up here to this pulpit is therefore long for me, when I as a child, at the age of 15, even contacted child protection and was placed at a shelter in Waldemar Thrane's Gate because there was a lack of resources. Not least, I have experienced experiences of a lack of competence in child protection. For this reason, I am also personally pleased that an overall committee agrees with the Left that there is a need to increase the competence of child protection. Children need good caregivers, especially those who experience betrayal. They need someone to make decisions on their own that can give them security and predictability — even when their parents do not. Therefore, it is important that child protection is maintained at a high professional level. Improving child protection skills is one of the most important tasks we have in front of us to ensure that all children have equal opportunities. A little over a year ago, this will address a proposal from the Left to transfer tasks from the Regional Offices of the Children's, Youth and Family Services to the Municipal Child Protection Service. The proposal had the same purpose as what we are discussing today, namely to strengthen the competence of the first line service on child protection. I am sorry that the committee's recommendation to the Storting is that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. As far as I understand it, it is a little more positive than what happened to the proposal last year, which was not accepted. That's good. We in the Left are impatient. I see that the government parties reject the proposals because the government is working to increase its competence. Yes, and then they show that a lot has already been done. There is probably a lot of good investigation work in the area of child protection, but we in the Left believe that it is actually possible to do something concrete now, as the Joint Organisation points out in its consultation response. Firstly, the training of children's protection must be strengthened. I see that the Committee points out that there are wide variations between educational institutions that carry out basic training courses that qualify for work in the field of child protection. I fully agree with that. Child protection education has not been the focus, and this despite the fact that the need for skills has increased in recent years. We have to do something about that. The left has therefore made proposals to change the placement of child protection education from funding category F to category D. We also want professionals other than today to be able to work in the field of child protection. I am absolutely sure there is a need for both lawyers and psychologists in municipal child protection, but then we also have to make it payable. Secondly, continuing training opportunities need to be strengthened. We believe that a pool of skills is a way of strengthening this. Thirdly, professional competence must be restored from the State to the municipality. We have therefore proposed that the level of pay between national and municipal child protection should be coordinated. In addition, we still believe that our proposal from last year to transfer tasks from the Regional Offices of Children, Youth and Family Services to the Municipal Child Welfare Service is an important step that should be implemented. There are enough of the signals that there is a trade-off between the municipal and state child protection services, which have both better pay and working conditions. We believe it is obvious that the highest competence in child protection must lie in the first line, with those who have the main contact with the child and the family. So this development has to be reversed if we're to get better and more credible child protection. If all the measures are implemented, we will have a child protection that is better equipped to ensure that all children are brought up safely. Many – too many – children whom I met myself as a children's home, have ended up as prostitutes, drug addicts, criminals and social losers. I've seen them myself. It does not just help to talk beautifully and neatly about this topic, when concrete and effective action is lacking. Children who are poor in resources deserve much, much better, of the world's best country. Unfortunately, Norway is not the world’s best place for these weak children. The fact that every third municipality today has less than two years' work in the Child Welfare Service is a mockery of children who need our help. In addition to, of course, supporting the proposals in the vote, I would like to finish by addressing the Left's proposals, which have been distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e452	The representative Abid Q. Raja has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e456	High competence is one of the most important building blocks for meeting the challenges we face in child protection. The primary responsibility of child protection is to identify care failures and provide proper help in complex cases. Of course, employees with a high level of competence are required to deal with all the factors that affect the situation of vulnerable children and families. They need to know what kind of help works for who. They need to be able to talk to children who are in difficult situations, if they are to take care of the responsibility they have to hear the children themselves. Training institutions have a key role to play in enhancing the competence of child protection. Quality in education is the most important keyword. It is essential to develop education to ensure that child protection employees are able to address the challenges they will face in their future job. My department therefore cooperates closely with the Ministry of Knowledge, which is responsible for the sector of educational institutions. We work together on the follow-up to the public inquiry into the development of child protection competences, which was the advice of an expert committee on how to strengthen the very competence of child protection. At annual dialogue meetings, educational institutions, the Department, the Directorate and the KS discuss jointly the theme of knowledge challenges in the field of child protection. We are working together on the forthcoming report from the Ministry of Knowledge on education and training for the professions of the welfare state, precisely because we agree that there is a need to strengthen these education and training. The employer is responsible for the necessary competence of municipal workers in the field of child protection. The government contributes to more robust professional environments through efforts to strengthen the capacity of municipal child protection. The municipalities, as Stortinget knows, have received funding to fill 400 new posts in 2011. As part of the same investment, 35 million is going to be. kr awarded to different measures of competence. 17 new millions will be distributed after the next deadline for application in September. It's very interesting to see what the municipalities are doing with these great means of competence. They have e.g. Some municipalities have released experienced child-restraint workers in order to provide guidance to new employees in the service. Others have sought to strengthen the competence of the service for effective assistance and recognised tools to address individual children’s needs. We also have the development of a separate course for child-restraint leaders to strengthen their leadership skills, as another example. All of this now takes place in different municipalities. The protection of children must also be provided with new and up-to-date knowledge. This is why the Ministry and our Directorate have developed their own strategy for research and development. Research and development is a cornerstone if we want to develop a knowledge-based child protection. We need to know more about what individual children need, and what help can help to create lasting, positive changes in children's lives. This means that child protection, for example: must have multicultural competence, and that means that we need to familiarise ourselves with new knowledge. This is what we do, among other things. through the National Library for the Protection of Children and Family Affairs and through the website child protection.no. We need to make the municipal child protection service an even more attractive job. There are then important elements to build more robust professional environments, that municipalities have good systems to strengthen the skills of employees, that new employees are followed up with systematic guidance and the establishment of cross-service cooperation in order to benefit from each other's top skills. I am pleased that the proposers and the other committee members share my view that competence constitutes a pillar of good and robust child protection, and that it is therefore absolutely necessary not only to have the number of new people working in child protection on the agenda, but also measures to strengthen the competence of those who will work there in the future. Several of the proposals put forward by the Left are good. Those who are good are therefore the government too long to follow up and will come back to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e475	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e478	Councillor Lysbakken is the fourth councillor in this department. For six years now, we have had a majority government that has run the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality. The State Council Lighthouse has done so: he has not sent a single case to Stortingen regarding child protection. He has, as said, and which is very good, ready to get to some earmarked funds in the budget, even though it is not very close enough of what they need. He has put down some samples, and he has notified a matter in 2013. What worries the opposition, and especially the Progress Party, is that nothing is done until 2012/2013. So my question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State mean that child protection today works so brilliantly and so well that there is no need for any changes or issues to the Storting before 2013?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e483	We have had a lot of debates on these issues, both the representative Horne and the undersigned and the rest of the opposition, and they have been so many and so detailed that I believe the representative has come to realize that there is a lot of government that wants to change child protection. The most important thing to change in the short term is the resource situation out in the first line service. And it's pretty special to say that there are no issues for the Storting when we in the budget for the current year promoted the most extensive resource escalation done in child protection of 20 years, which far exceeds what was done when the bourgeois parties were put in position. I'm very proud of the child protection campaign. We're increasing the number of employees in municipal child protection by 12 pst. this year. It also remains to be made changes in the organisation, and I have said that we will come back to the Stortinget with proposals for 2012, not 2013 as the representative says, and we will follow that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e490	We have gradually become well aware that this government is doing a great deal in the field of child protection in terms of evaluations and also assessments of new measures, and when the opposition to this proposal asks the government to assess whether it is appropriate to impose on the municipal child protection service child protection competence and capacity requirements, therefore, the red-green parties do not support it. Therefore, I have to ask: when the Council of State claims that it is so concerned to assess all possible measures that can ensure that we have better child protection, what is the reason for the Council of State to oppose the assessment of skills and capacity requirements in the municipal child protection service?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e495	Several of the proposals contained in the Left's proposals are also concerned. in the study on child protection competences, which the government ordered, and which we are now working on in the follow-up. There are, among other things: the question of competence and quality requirements that we need to assess. Then I have not seen the need for us to ask ourselves to consider something that we consider. It is also about the question of whether to impose restrictions on the number of municipal child protection posts, which has been a topic in the debate here. The type of regulation, both in terms of quantity and quality, in the municipal child protection service is one that affects the future organisation of child protection and to which the government is going to return to the Stortinget with answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e500	In order to succeed in the process of stepping up the first-line service to which the Council of State referred, professionals must be available to fill the posts with good quality. The letter of reply from the Council of State, from which I referred in my post, has explained – I guess that statement comes from the Ministry of Knowledge – the general state of health and social education. And when you say that the Ministry of Knowledge has not received signals that the capacity of child protection education has been too low, the question to the Council of State must be first: Is the answer based on the escalation of 1,500 jobs proposed by the Lighthouse, but not submitted to the Stortinget, or is the answer based on today's situation? And: Is it the government's policy and the Ministry of Knowledge's policy to plan for a stepping up in line with the Light Hill in some contexts? Does the government have an overall policy in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e505	Yeah, the government does. Now, in the current year, we are conducting the greatest escalation in municipal child protection in 20 years. Indeed, it will give us a very good picture of the situation regarding access to competent child protection workers. The first reports I have received indicate that applicants for the jobs are good. We can have challenges. In some district municipalities it is generally a challenge to recruit skilled labour, but as the municipalities have employed their new employees, we will get a very good picture of how access is. This will be determined in the future – because we are going to need increased resources in municipal child protection in the future – by a combination of how many are trained and how many are we, for example. may be returned from other professions after they have left the protection of children. What we're doing now, which increases the status of child protection professionals, I think, will contribute positively to it. That is why, as of today, we have no reason to believe that we are training too few.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e510	The President indicates that the Storting has decided that there shall be three lines after the Council of State. Then the president was informed that the committee had the intention that there should be five lines, but no one in the committee who was present in the room reacted, and we adopted three lines. However, the President will allow the doubt to come to the end of the matter, in the sense that it will open up five lines, but reiterates the need for the Committee to be aware when adopting a debate. - Abid Q. Raja is the next replicator.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e515	It's a good doubt that's going to benefit me here. When I was at this hostel, I met a girl who lived next door to me. She was sexually abused by her family. As a student, I met her again later. She came into the T-course with a cola box in her hand and begging for money. She was a prostitute. She was a drug addict. Unfortunately, very little has happened in the last 20 years. Still, the situation is very poor for children who end up in child protection, and it is very bad for them – not least to talk about immigrant children, where child protection almost does not respond because it is their culture to beat, and it is almost the culture of the children to be beaten, so they have to find their way into it. I do not want to use the word arrogantly, because I do not know if it is a parliamentary expression, but how can the Council of State be so satisfied with the situation, so calm and seem so satisfied? Has the Red Heart stopped beating after taking up the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e526	The representative Raja has not been present in so many child protection debates in the Stortinget. That's why I think that the overall impression of the government's bet on child protection would be a little different if he had the overview. So what we're doing now is the largest escalation of child protection resources in 20 years. At the same time, I have announced that we will come to the Stortinget with proposals for changes in the way we organise child protection, precisely because we recognize that the situation is serious in many places in the country, both because some children do not get the follow-up they are going to have, and not least because there has been such a huge increase in the number of children in need of child protection in recent years. And that's exactly what I think. The representative's impression that little has happened in 20 years is wrong. A lot has happened in 20 years. But we have a challenge to create both a dimensioning and a competence in child protection that enables it to meet the major new challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e532	Several have not asked for the word for a line, and the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e537	We must have great ambitions for a clear and comprehensive lift of competences in and for the protection of children. Child protection work must be based on the needs of vulnerable children. The level of competence is necessary to achieve the objectives of better assistance for vulnerable children, and the size of the child is impatient. Increased competences in the field of child protection are therefore very, very important. Prioritising this can contribute to strengthening child protection as a separate subject. Specialised knowledge and competences and new professions are important to look at, especially when it comes to recruiting as many new posts as the Council of State has outlined. I can take an example. Gestalterapeuter is also used within the health care system, both inside and outside the public sector. There is a group that can be seen as an example of the needs of vulnerable children and young people, who, in my view, meet the requirements of the field of competence. That's what we're after. This will result in qualified assistance for children and young people and their families. It may not be the case that only child protection educators and socionomists work in the field of child protection, when there are other qualified professional groups that have the skills we are looking for. Having a breadth will also ensure the quality of these services. What's also problematic for the children is that they can lose faith that there's someone out there who can help them. So then we have to do everything we can to help these kids, but the government is doing it today in a very close way to seeing the context. It's important to see the whole thing. It's important to look into the future. It is important to solve the problems for those children who have it difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e546	First, I would like to address the proposal that the Christian People's Party is dealing with alone in the vote. The other proposals on which the Christian People's Party is involved, I guess others have taken up – if not I would like to. I take the floor again because I want to elaborate a little bit on one of the points that were both the last speaker and that the Council of State was inside in its speech, namely, cooperation across professional boundaries – across the level of duty – on vulnerable children and young people. We also have the Flatø selection as an important background for that. Some of the most demanding tasks that we as a society can take on are just meeting and caring for kids who have not received the care they need from their parents. That's why it's so important to look at what kind of competence we have to meet these kids. We already have services in the municipalities today. We have health centres, we have psychologists and PP services, we also have different types of health professional competence – and we have child protection with a high level of child protection educators and socionomists. I think we have a great deal to do to make those groups cooperate more closely across the professional boundaries, not least to ensure that child protection also has access to the competences and alternative perspectives and perspectives that the other professional environments can provide. Not least I want to mention family protection, family therapists, etc., and what they can provide. They face many of the same challenges as child protection in their work. I am pleased that the Council of State touched on that topic and hope that he puts even more emphasis on it in the future. I would like to end by saying that in the Council's reply to me, he points out that we need to follow closely the need for educational capacity in the years to come. That's just the point. The applications for the new jobs now announced should be followed closely, but if you find that there are too few, it will take three to six years from the time you may be able to do something about the training capacity until you see the results. That is precisely why I think that the Council's response very clearly illustrates the need for a comprehensive plan for stepping up child protection. The need for local authorities and educational capacity must be seen in the context of the types of skills that can be used, and a comprehensive plan for stepping up child protection, which will enable us to reach goals as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e557	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e560	I would like to start by thanking you for all the positive feedback we have received on this proposal, which we have been working on for quite a long time, and which also integrates into the range of proposals that the entire opposition has made across this field over the year. The only characteristic of the government in this field is that you have changed the Council of State and started over and over again each time. You look for some fundamental grips, but it ends up figuring out. The real reason why I asked for the floor was that I reacted very strongly to the Council of State's reply to a reply from the representative of the Left – who is actually a representative in this Chamber and who is actually the one who represents the Left in this proposal. To experience a government council that is arrogant and arrogant is saying that this is not to be expected because it is only a meeting representative, I believe that the government councils are too good for this. I believe that this case is the one that worked thoroughly with. This matter has been promoted with good intentions by the Left, and there are many good proposals that the Council of State can take with it. Then I think he can stay too good to answer the representative like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e567	Usually the president of terms and designations like arrogant, arrogant and arrogant. The President should have done so at an earlier stage of the debate, but the President is now taking note of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e570	It was not an attempt to say that the alternate did not have a good basis for believing anything about the protection of children that did not mean I said what I said, but because that time and again from this pulpit, from both the representative Raja and the representative Skei Grande, is created and repeated a picture that we have a government that does nothing to strengthen child protection – so when we have the greatest strengthening of the 20-year-old municipal child protection resource situation. I believe, if we are to be required to hold the debate on child protection on the nuanced and factual grounds that the sector deserves, that there must also be a demand for the opposition to a certain degree of soberness and truthfulness in the picture drawn by the government's efforts. As long as there are no posts – including those in the representative Skei Grande – you also have to expect hard posts back.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e575	The President recalls the need for parliamentary language in this and subsequent debates – on a general basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e578	I like to contribute to it, President, but sometimes you get inspired by other ways too. The left has carried out a major smoking of resources in its alternative budgets. We propose a large smoking of resources from the regional link to the local link. That's what we've been talking about in this room for the last six years. We have been proposing this in this Chamber for the last six years. What the government is now doing is very little in relation to the proposals contained in our alternative budget. It's a nice step in the right direction, but we think it's a basic mistake because it's about earmarking funds that you're going to apply for every year. What child protection people say when we talk to them is that this is so bureaucratic, this is so short-sighted, this is not what they're asking about. We've tried to give them what they're asking for. We've tried to give them that and put power down in the system. We have tried to create a plan for increasing the competence of the basic field. That's what we've been meaning all along. And we certainly follow what the government is doing! We've been doing that all along. We've actually tried to contribute good ideas, and everything falls to the ground. Everything falls to the ground of good ideas for how to strengthen this first line service. Everyone says that the challenge of child protection today is to strengthen the first line service. It's not about any earmarked means you're going to apply for, and you're going to get an answer some time in the spring as to whether you get it or not. It's about a basic grip. There was a majority in this room, with both Left and SV, who made it quite clear that we made Bufatat. We've admitted that it was wrong, and we'll do something quick to do it well again, but we're not getting any help on the way. What frustrates me is that when the new, next state council comes, it'll be a new evaluation. The light hill could have listened to its own at the county meeting in Hordaland SV, and what they think you should do. Left agrees. You have to do a fundamental act, and that's what we're trying to discuss. Then we can't meet with the answer that we don't follow what the government is doing. We're tracking what child protection is doing all the time. People get in and out of the offices in a lot of frustration because there's nothing happening. That's what we've been dealing with, and that's what our proposal is actually based on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e589	Then I just want to point out that as long as the opposition's message is that nothing happens in child protection, we have a very different perception of reality. My very clear impression is that there is no perception in child protection either. When it is said that we have put in place a bureaucratic system for allocating funds, my experience is that it is completely wrong. On the contrary, this scheme has led to almost all municipalities in Norway finally having a debate in their local government on child protection. The feedback we receive from the municipalities is not that the scheme has been unnecessarily bureaucratic. Then I take the representative seriously when she says that she follows closely what is happening in child protection. But it's not right that we hand out this money for a year, and then they can suddenly be taken back from the municipalities next year. In the circular that has gone to the municipalities, and as I have explained a number of times, it is clear that the government has a long-term commitment to this money, and that it is not such that we intend to distribute it to other municipalities next year. The representative Skei Grande was also recently on the radio and stated that none of the municipalities had yet received any posts, one month after the municipalities had been informed of this. We need to have a debate that both gives room to recognise the important things that are happening, and at the same time recognize that it is a long way to go. I'm the first one to admit that. The debate on organisation I've been very open to, because I think the Left is right in many of its important objections to the reform that they themselves agreed to launch. At the same time, I have said one more thing: It will be irresponsible for us to go down a new reform on child protection. We have to spend the time we need to make sure that the next thing we do is right. I feel that the opposition is very clear on what the opposition is criticizing, but not quite so clear on what kind of system they want instead. Then I also expect some understanding that the government is spending some time on the proposals that are coming, so that they will be good enough for us, hopefully, to be able to get a broad response to them when that day comes. And that day I meet, because I think there's a need for change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e602	I must say that I support Trine Skei Grande's report on how this government meets the opposition's proposal. It has never been more appropriate to use the term ‘attack is the best defence’ than in the last debates on child protection in this Chamber. We debated a few weeks ago an excellent proposal by the Christian People's Party on a stepping-up plan for child protection. Then we also had to have this round that we are witnessing now, because the government parties and the Council of State representative Karin Andersen from this pulpit were trying to argue between the lines that the opposition had to understand that the everyday life in child protection is more complicated than that, and that the opposition might be presenting this in a slightly easy way. The opposition is impatient when the Council of State Light Hill is the fourth Council of State responsible for the protection of children, which starts from the beginning, shall evaluate everything and put down samples, but does nothing concrete for the children who are out there and need help now. In the course of six years, investigations and assessments have taken place. I feel that all opposition parties work very seriously with child protection. When we're out talking to people in the state child protection and in private child protection, when we talk to foster families, and when we talk to the children themselves, not everything is as good as the council is trying to make it like that. When we experience every day that there is a violation of the Child Protection Act – children do not get supervisors, whom they are legally entitled to, there are hundreds of children waiting to have a home, there are many children waiting for institutional positions – I think this government has a very good time when you are not going to promote a growth message until 2012. It means eight years of child protection without promoting more than one child-rearing message in 2012 — we may see actions that can be implemented at the earliest in 2013 or 2014. Then I expect the government to respect the opposition, which makes proposals, and which promotes measures that will help improve the everyday life of child protection out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e612	I would like to thank the representative Trine Skei Grande for the contributions she made, for it was time for someone to tell me about the situation out there in this room. It seems that the Council of State avoids the whole issue and only owes it to the opposition, that the opposition is not aware that he is working. But when the council says there's so much going on out there, what's going on? The opposition is still happy to hear what's really going on. For the opposition and the committee are actually out there and see what's going on out there. We have meetings, as the representative of Hofstad Helleland said, with both state governments, municipalities and organisations, drawing a completely different picture of reality from what the Council of State gives. He's talking about investigations. Then he talks about that there has never been so much money given to child protection in a budget. Yeah, but he's given 240 million. NOK 8 million. kr of them go to a bureaucracy instead to the children who need it. But there has to be two things to do at once. For the Progress Party, the Council of State fully agrees that an evaluation of child protection needs to be carried out, that we need to look at the organisation of child protection. But as we do that, it must be possible to do another thing as well, and that is to listen to very many of the good suggestions that come from the opposition here on the Stortinget. So the council says he has to spend some time, and he asks for understanding that the government has to spend some time. All right. This government has now had six years. They haven't done anything yet. And while he's investigating, it's actually a child in line. It is, as the representative of Hofstad Helleland was in charge, that more than 200 children are in line for foster homes. Almost 50 pst. of the children in foster homes do not receive the supervision they require. We don't need investigations to do this. We can figure something out, but we can also do two things at once. That's why I encourage the Council of States here and now to do two things at once: investigate the matter and put down the panels that he's done, but still do something about the crisis that's out there, here and now. I believe that the Council of State must be able to take over, and also support some of the good proposals that come from the opposition, which will help the kids out there who really need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e627	It's good to get some speed in the debate! I want to start by saying one thing: it's something that's supposed to be blackmailing a situation. I thought maybe we could do something in between, and it's starting to meet a little bit in the middle. Debates of this nature tend to lose some important shades. In fact, I agree with what the Council of State says that when we hear the opposition talking in the Stortinget, one would believe that Norway stood still. One would think that nothing is happening in the children's protection in Norway. The Committee on Family Affairs and Culture has been on a committee mission to Bergen. We're talking to people in both the State and Municipal Child Protection. With respect to reporting, I thought that it would also be in place to actually recognise many of the things that are actually being done. We have increased funding for child protection. We have got several robust child-restraint units as a result of inviting the municipalities to cooperate. I would also say that several doors are being opened in this matter today. For several of the proposals put forward in this matter, both the Ministry and representatives of the Red-Green parties have been said to be working. And then one more takes up the discussion about foster care. It's not long since we had a discussion about it. And what one knows about the issue of cows – and the council has also pointed out several times – is that we have vacant foster home places today, but in this government we are actually very concerned that the foster homes in which these babies are to be placed should be well adapted to the individual. So with respect to reporting, I thought it was partly a black polling of the debate. It might have been appropriate to meet some of the measures that have actually been taken, and the work that is actually being done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e640	The red-green government, the red-green parties and the state councils have turned child protection into their case number one. It has been the main priority of the Council of State in the State budget in recent years. He has repeatedly explained to the Storting about the situation in child protection, and we are taking action to do something about it. It's because we recognize that there's a problem in child protection in many places. That's because we recognize that it's a problem to clean up. We recognise that we want to clean up the reform that the citizens introduced just before they left. But we don't want to make the same mistake again: to push down a big reform on child protection. Then we will be in a situation where we will have to discuss the reform again in the Chamber in three years' time. The grips we're doing now have to be right and they have to be permanent, so we have to use that time. And I have to respectfully ask that there be a little more nuances in this discussion, and that you don't accuse other representatives, or the Council of State, of not having a heart for child protection, or not being concerned about it, when we've put it as case number one.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e647	I'm just at the Storting, so I'm not sure I know better, but I might say something anyway, when I'm first here. I already know the Council of State Lightbaking, before he became the Council of State, too, and I remember him as a very sincere, engaged man, who cared and had a warm heart. I'm not going to say that he doesn't have any of the parts anymore, but why is it for me that is just being, that just comes in between here, so easy to observe that you change so considerably from going from being a general staging representative to becoming a high-ranking state council? You kind of change the rhetoric, you kind of change your attitude almost to start protecting the system rather than trying to change it. Why is that so? And why has it become this way, at least with a person like the Council of State Lightbaking, who has, and certainly now also has a burning commitment to child-rescue children, but who does not come to see so well now, at least not in terms of the changes. We'd like to do that in the investigations, but not in concrete actions. I believe that a government council in this field cannot and should not be satisfied with the situation as it is today. In the case of children who are beaten at home today, research shows that the numbers are high, and the numbers are even higher. We know that there are major consequences to domestic violence, not least for the children who go through that violence – especially for the child, but also for spouses – and then for the child’s own children again, etc. This is too little done in Norway today. You give too little protection to these children, not least those who are sexually abused, those who have mental challenges and problems. All in all, you need a great level of competence. And that you can't understand – even as a government councillor from SV – that there can't be a big state out there, which is far away from where the child lives, who is going to come and help, but that the competence must be in the first-line service, who knows the child, the child's situation, the home, the community, is very incomprehensible, even for an commodity like me. As a matter of fact, I do not ask for anything more than concrete actions. It's not that much to ask for. I don't think it's good for these kids that an investigation is being carried out after investigation. So even though I can only get here in between, at least I'm going to spend the time I'm going to just try to make sure that you need concrete action. And it could be that a commodity's word can be heard by a government council.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e658	The representative of Øyvind Håbreek has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e661	There are many notes in one minute, many short notes. I believe the Council of State and the Red-Green politicians in their commitment to child protection. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the government has turned child protection into a case no. one, is to take it well far. I have earlier stated in other speeches from this pulpit how the government has promised other political projects in a completely different way than it has done with child protection. Meet in the middle? Yes, I said in my post that there is an amazing amount of good in child protection, and that the government has taken a price-effective initiative. But I also expressed the same impatience as everyone else in the opposition here in the hall has done – it's having two thoughts in your head at once. So I think we should agree that if we're going to meet in the middle about how the child protection situation is, we're not going to first measure it in the number of millions on the state budget, but most of all on the queues we actually see of kids who need help.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e672	I promise this will be my last post in this debate. I appreciate the debate on child protection. I'm also concerned that we're going to figure out how reality is out there, because it's often not as we wish it were. This is because far more children than before are in contact with child protection or that much more concern messages reach child protection than before. The resource situation in the protection of children has not kept up. In addition, more and more critical objections are raised to the division of labour between the State and the municipality, as established by the previous government. Therefore, I am also more than willing to accept both the opposition's good advice and the opposition's impatience in things that are not good enough. On the other hand, what I am not willing to do is accept an image of the government not doing anything, as it is now repeated from all opposition parties – except the Christian People's Party – in this debate, or that we should be satisfied with the situation. Because that's obvious, both based on the priorities we've done, among other things. in the current year's budget and on the basis of the statements I made here for Stortingen, that both parts are wrong. I am also not willing to hear that we are just investigating instead of doing business. The opposition is still mixing various debates on child protection and saying that our answer is investigation. That's one thing we're investigating now. That's the question of whether we're going to make changes to the biological principle of child protection. That is something that several parties have welcomed, but to which everyone acknowledges that there are major dilemmas attached. So there's one thing we're evaluating. It is the 2004 Child Protection Reform. It surprises me that the opposition believes that years ago we should have changed the reform that they themselves were introducing just seven years ago. It is initially a very short period of time for such a comprehensive reform. But we're starting to see that many things haven't turned out like that government where the left set, wanted it to do. Therefore, I have opened up changes – not late, but early, in relation to what will be common in all other such matters. So this government has managed the reform that the previous one introduced, and I record the impatience of the opposition in changing it. The other things the opposition is constantly pointing out that we need to do something about, competence, foster home, people in the first line, we're not investigating anything: we're dealing in all the fields! A year ago, I came here and was criticized repeatedly for not being able to arrange 400 new positions in municipal child protection. A consistent opposition at that time expressed the importance of doing so. Now we get that, and then the opposition says nothing happens. I cannot understand that, and I would urge that we all contribute to a more nuanced debate on these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e687	Finally, I just want to remind you that it is nice that the Council of State Lighthouses is managing a reform that SV was also involved in adopting in this room. The Council of State constantly refers to the historical effort made in the area of child protection. Then I just want to remind you that the opposition is also involved in this historic effort. The opposition even goes beyond the governmental parties. We're increasing by a lot more billion dollars, and we're spending the money out there where the kids are, helping the kids directly. Instead of spending a lot of money on child protection bureaucracies, the opposition’s money is spent on child protection work. When we are accused of blackmailing the situation, I would remind the representative Awake! to go back a few months and read in a national newspaper, where her colleague, Arild Stokkan-Grande, says that there is a serious crisis in child protection. That's what the Workers' Party Child Protection spokesman says. Then it is okay that there is also an understanding that the other representatives in the Workers' Party take over. At least there's something the opposition has taken over, and we're not blackpainting. On the other hand, we are promoting constructive proposals. The proposals that are being promoted here in this hall from the opposition are not something we sit in the office and think of ourselves, but they come because we are in dialogue almost every day with different actors in the field of child protection. So I'm very surprised that when we get into this room and we're going to discuss proposals that the opposition is promoting, the opposition is being attacked by the council, we're being attacked by the red-green parties. I think it's very remarkable, especially when the opposition is able to put child protection on the agenda of the Stortinget – because it doesn't do the government parties, it's almost not a matter that's been promoted in this room that concerns child protection – that not the red-green parties and the council then want to take advantage of the possibility of a constructive debate, to look at how we can improve the everyday life and better the situation of all those child protection children out there who have it difficult. I hope in the weeks that are left before the summer starts, we see a different attitude from the red-green ones. When we are going to discuss child protection issues in this room now beyond June, I hope we will have a constructive debate in favour of the children's protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e698	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4142]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e716	Family policy is most debated when we debate parental leave, father's allowance and cash support. But it's about a lot more, and not least: it affects many more areas than just the family committee at Stortinget. Some perceive the core family as mother, father, and their biological children. But in today's society, there are many family patterns that fall outside this definition. We have everything from the classic core family, the adoptive family, families with stepparents, families with a lone parent, families with yours, mine and our children to families with two parents of the same sex. A lot has changed in the last 50 years. There have been major changes in family composition, function and relationship. The most obvious changes are the high level of professional activity among women, the increase in cohabitation and non-cohabitation. The 1970s began with the inclusion of equality between women and men as an important political premise for the development of what was then a new and modern family policy. At that time, it was no longer possible to pursue a policy that could support Norway as a home country. Then the slogan was freedom of choice for women to choose work outside the home even if you had kids. One of the new policy instruments was the organisation of working life for young children’s parents and the development of good kindergartens. However, the most important and expensive single measure was the introduction of maternity leave with pay. But as time went by, it became more and more clear that while family policy had managed to get mother into work, it had not likewise had father into the family. Then the work started with just this. The 1990s also saw an increasing public effort directed at the family to help the family deal with or solve their problems, and to work more preventively. Family protection got rusted up. Since more and more women started working and taking education, it led to a new view of the role of women in society. It had consequences both for the family and for the children. But even though there has been a development of family patterns, having a family and having children and being a family is still the most common way of living. When we see the big changes we've had in family structures in recent years, it's interesting to see if our arrangements are adapted to the families of the future. Today, for example, we see. that very many rights attached to work, combined with longer education, lead to even more people waiting longer to have children. In today's time-stamp challenges, it is not certain that it is the most beneficial development. The family is a very important preventer, and there is a lot of important learning in the family. A well-functioning and stable family will prevent problems that may otherwise arise. We see that there are big differences between the kids who have grown up in a safe family and those who don't. After all, more children under the care of child protection are a result of families who do not work. When we see that the number of children receiving child protection is increasing, it says something about families in disintegration. This government has had a lot of focus on child protection and raised it, but the family, who plays the most crucial role in whether or not there is a case for child protection at all, is not as much discussed in this room. If we are to prevent any of the later issues of child protection, we need to look more closely at measures that are targeting the family as a whole. There's not always a pair relationship working, and there's a bunch of people who choose to separate. An increasing number of children experience that parents choose to separate, and several children grow up in families with high levels of conflict. This contributes to a very insecurity for the children, which in turn can lead to poor self-esteem, anxiety and depression. That means that in many of the cases where parents break up, this is exactly right. But the question is, can we save life and marriage if they had received more support and guidance in a previous phase? Then that's where we have to align the effort. I think society would have been saved for a lot of expenses if you had put in the effort at an earlier time, and avoided a break in life. I think there would be very well-invested funds that would give more children a better growth and prevented conflicts and greater expenditure at a later stage. Family protection has a very important role in Norwegian policy. At the same time, we also see that they face more and more challenges. They work on more things than before, and waiting time increases. Most of the requests are about strengthening the couple relationship. At the same time, family protection needs to spread knowledge to more people, to work more preventively and not least to work more outlyingly. They face major challenges, because there are several complex family and relationship systems, more or less lucky forms of association, and the couples seeking help in family protection have a much greater need for professional help. It is clear that family protection will play an important role in helping those who have experienced a break in their lives, in order to prevent a high level of conflict between parents who are unable to cooperate after a break in their lives from becoming a child protection case. I believe that training, conversations and more active prevention work will prevent many conflicts that are currently destroying many children. Family-friendly arrangements are in place to enable work and family life to be linked. Recent surveys show that the contrast between work and home is the most prominent stress factor among today’s workers. High levels of conflict between work and family also have a negative impact on the satisfaction of life. Workers are increasingly under pressure. You have to change or re-train yourself. At the same time, we're going to have an active life outside of work. We might also need to take care of old parents who need help. The tension between work and home and between work and leisure affects a lot. Some people experience it as an eternal struggle for time, a conflict between expectations and commitments that do not go together, and between the different roles that cannot be combined. Then someone chooses to get out of work, while someone chooses to focus one-sidedly on their career. In fact, the cost of creating a more family-friendly working life can be quite low if the option is that mother or father goes down to half a job, quits work or gets sick. At the same time, you will have more satisfied employees. The project Spouse-shared working time was carried out in the first half of the 1970s. At the time, Mom and Dad were both going to work part-time and share the work at home. The goal was to achieve a lasting balance between the work paid and the unpaid work at home. In addition to promoting gender equality, it was also an objective to limit and allocate time to paid work in order to provide room for both mother and father to have a career. The whole family was in focus, and it was the couple relationship that was the most important changing arena. After trying this out for a total of six to four years, the participants concluded that they had achieved the goal of increasing equality. The difference between these couples and those couples where father just took out fetal leave was just that there was a lasting change for the first group. Today the situation is quite different. But it's interesting to see that the researchers at the time thought that the worst case scenario was that both parents were in full-time work. They thought that this would be too much for Mother, for she then became a double-worker. When you look at the numbers today, you can see that it's almost happened, because women still take the greatest responsibility at home. Too many people find it simply too much to combine a full-time job with a lot of responsibility at home. The family should not be just an arena to gain rights for mother and father. When we talk about more equality, we have to look at the family as a whole and not just at Mom's and Dad's rights. The family sometimes drowns when the focus on the individual becomes so big. The desire for equality can't be just about the first year of children's lives. A family lasts so much longer. When we're going to shape the family policy of the future, it's interesting to see how the family has changed in recent years. We'd like to look at old arrangements with new eyes. A lot of people have missed the housewife. That scheme might be old-fashioned. But at a time when even more people become single-parents, where moving far away from networks and large families is more common, one would think that this system was more topical than ever. I think many municipalities have a long way to go to develop their municipal services to be more family friendly. There is a lot of work to be done within kindergartens to make them more flexible, but also in the area of prevention. There may be unloaded at home, support for newly established families and a more outbound family protection service. If the family is to be focused and recognised as an important fundamental factor in people's lives, the family perspective needs to be integrated into all areas in the same way as we work with gender equality focus and environmental focus. Two full-time parents are common in Norway. But we have to assume that a large part of the families of young children actually chooses that one of the parents go into position to get things going together. It's usually Mom. It frees up more time for housework, picking up and bringing, which in turn makes it easier for father to work a few hours extra. It gives us a signal that as long as someone feels that two full jobs are difficult to combine with family life, that bias will be difficult to correct. When we talk about gender equality and family life today, most measures are aimed at the infant phase. Then we have to ask ourselves: with the focus on mother going to work, that mother should earn rights, and that father should have more rights to the child – which are positive things – then there will be a lack of focus on the family as a whole? Can this actually lead to the loss of important measures that can lead to lasting equality, precisely because equality is not about the first year or the first 10 or 12 weeks of the child's life? It is about how the long-term family chooses to prioritise tasks between paid and unpaid work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e777	Good reproductive and living conditions for children and young people are a primary family policy objective for the government. As the interpellant has well illustrated, the social structures are constantly evolving. It affects family and life patterns. Until we got the Children's Act in 1981, children born outside marriage were regulated by their own law. Only two years ago, we got a gender-neutral marriage law. Homophile spouses can now be considered adoption parents, and it was opened for assisted conception for lesbian couples. Now mine, your and our children are a natural part of the family patterns. Children relate to both legal mother and social mother, legal father and stepfather, they can only live with father, and they can have several ‘social’ grandparents. If they marry, there may be many ‘mother-in-laws’. Women are about as active as men, and we have families from all over the world growing up in Norway with different traditions and different family structures. These are examples of us thinking differently about family policy than what we did before. The same thing is that all children must be guaranteed the best possible and safest possible growth. I am convinced that it is good for children to grow up with parents who are equal, equal in family life and working life. Parents must not only have the same rights as caregivers in their working life. In order to be family friendly, working life must also have clear laws, orderly forms and strong protection of workers. Research shows that similar practices in the family appear to provide more robust living and reduce the risk of a breakup. Similar couples experience a higher quality of life – better pair relationships, lower level of conflict and more stability. Equally parenting and strengthening the roles and functions of men in living and caring for children are therefore very important elements of a comprehensive family policy. One of the first instruments to be met by newly-baked parents is the parental leave scheme. This scheme ensures that children can have one of the parents at home in their first year of life, and facilitates both women and men to combine professional participation with having children. The family policy of the future must therefore take fathers seriously. The family quota has made Norwegian men home when the kids are small. Without the quota, we know that far fewer fathers would take out leave, and those who take out would take out fewer weeks. More and more men today take more than the quota. It changes Norway, and I think it gives more sustainable family structures. Parents most want the child to start in kindergarten at one-year-old age. Therefore, a good and reasonable childcare provision is a prerequisite for parents to return to work and be safe for the child. The main objective of the government is to ensure that all children have a high quality childcare facility. One of the main objectives of family policy is to pursue a non-discriminatory society for all, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, functionality and ethnicity. This means that we think across the board to combat all forms of discrimination and ensure everyone's participation in the welfare community on equal terms. On 1 January 2009 we got a marriage law that equates gay and heterophilic couples. It was a historic milestone in the work against a non-discriminatory society. Another example of change is that more children now grow up in foster homes rather than in institutions. I refer here to the important work done to recruit both gay and lonely as foster parents. It is also a change in family policy. All residents of Norway shall have the same obligations, rights and opportunities to contribute to and participate in the community. The government is combating discrimination and building barriers to participation. Anti-equality systems must be broken down. We need to ensure work, language training and social participation for immigrant women, and children in immigrant families need to be guaranteed participation in society under the same conditions as others. The promotion of free core time in kindergarten and other language-stimulating measures is important in this area. We have to prevent a classed society where families with immigrant backgrounds have worse living conditions than the rest of the population. All families must be given equal opportunities for work and social activities. The introduction programme is an example of how we provide information on family policy norms and rules, family patterns, gender roles and forms of life in Norway, with the clear intention that everyone who lives and lives in our society should adapt to the ideals of equality that we believe should apply in Norway. Similarly, the right to choose a spouse for yourself in Norway. The government counters forcibly through awareness-raising work, through the help of those who are subjected to abuse, and through penalties against those who exercise coerciveness. A society that is changing can be quickly met with conservative attitudes that want to maintain existing norms and practices. We must actively address the forces that are opposed to the work of an equal and equal society and that are in the way of a change for the best of both children, women and men. Work for good and stable living is a social issue. This concerns child-growth conditions. Life conflicts have a negative impact on society and a significant mental, physical, economic and social impact on those directly affected. Family protection offices are an important place to help solve life’s problems. Family protection can address life conflicts and reduce the number of life breaks. Family protection can help improve parental cooperation after a break in life. Early help can reduce the progress of healthcare, child protection, justice and nav. Family protection has relations competence that makes it an important partner for child protection in matters where there is a high level of conflict between parents. The Ministry has carried out a comprehensive review of the family protection service in order to assess adaptation to what we believe will be the needs of the future. I also look with interest at the development of different models at local level that work for a more comprehensive range of services for children, young people and families, such as: the municipal family centres. From a comprehensive and preventive perspective, through cross-border cooperation and coordination of different services, parental training, self-help groups and interdisciplinary teams responsible for the guidance and follow-up of children, young people and families with special needs are established. Most parents agree on arrangements for children after a break in life. But in some cases, the difference between what Mom and Dad think is best for the child, is so great that there will be long-lasting conflict and power struggle, where parents often put their own interests and needs first. Persistent conflicts after a breakup are a major cause of emotional, behavioural or psychosocial problems for children. We therefore prioritise targeted measures to reduce the level of conflict between parents after a break in life. The provision of children living below a high level of conflict following parental break-ups has been reinforced. It is an objective to contribute to the creation of more contractual solutions without recourse to the courts. Agreements may discourage the escalation of the level of conflict, provide more rapid calm and predictability for children. We are committed to enhancing the competence of the mediation body, improving the marketing of the mediation system and improving cross-profession cooperation to achieve this objective. The mediation mechanism is now being evaluated by SINTEF and will provide important input for further work in that area. We will pay particular attention to raising skills and other measures to ensure the proper treatment of child law cases, where there is a problem of violence and abuse. Today's families are much more complex than, for example, The family ideal of the 1950s was. This means that, in my view, family policy must be – and is – in the pact with development, so that we ensure that it adequately meets the needs of today and tomorrow. If we are to cope, we know that the development of welfare systems and a continued policy on equality are necessary prerequisites for a good family policy. The small children’s families are among the big winners if we are to sum up the changes that the red-green government has made in Norway since 2005, both in terms of the development of welfare schemes targeted at families and in terms of gender equality measures. I am convinced that there will be benefits for children and families with young children in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e835	I thank you for a good answer. As the Council of State went on to say, there is a lot of work to do with both tolerance and integration. It is very good that we are working to help young people living in families with high levels of conflict, and that we are working very well. At the same time, I would like to stress that when we focus on helping young people, helping families, it is important that this is a really low threshold offer, which is not just targeted at those who are at risk. It's just that you get the general prevention. It is now about family protection, and it is very important how this system will be in the future. Then you can see if you choose to target it, or if you choose to think much wider. Family policy must not just be a problem-focused issue. Often when we discuss things in Stortinget, we like to discuss family policy as an arena to achieve other things. But it's important that we also remember that the family is important in itself, and that the family framework is important in itself, and that it doesn't just become an arena to achieve other goals. These are the most important years — a great deal of the foundation is being laid in these very first years of a family. Kindergarten and school are important if we are to be able to work actively preventively, but the family and the framework around it, and the framework put around the kids, can really help us get out of the problems we have today in terms of child protection. There are many municipalities that work very well, but I think we have a great potential for seeing what is actually family policy. Because I think a lot of municipalities think you have kindergartens, and you have the health center, and that's fine. However, more flexible jobs, the nature of childcare services in the municipality, and not least how to work with prevention, mean that the municipality has alternative services, such as: Home-Start, home help or the old housewife, plays a role. But also the prevention that these family centres can offer to families that you see need a little extra help, plays a very important role for families that only for a few months, or maybe for a few years, need extra support, which is currently not available in all municipalities. For a lot of people, it's about making life stick together. I think we should look at many of the projects that are started at many family protection offices, and not least at a lot of jobs, where you can see how to help families over some knuckles, or manage to establish some permanent arrangements. Our task as politicians is to be able to make policy out of these good results, so I will also challenge the Council of State, and how to gather many of the good experiences we actually have, in order to develop a much broader family policy, which is not just problem-focused, but which is more long-term.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e852	I would like to thank the interpellant again for two good contributions and for raising an important debate. Because it is true that the family policy agenda is very often marked by the highest political conflict. In the last couple of years, there have been questions about a father's allowance, sometimes there have been questions about cash support, but family policy is much wider than that. It's e.g. It is very important that we are able to discuss the development of family protection, which is an important service that often comes under the shadow of the debate on child protection, but which, if we use it correctly, can be a prevention service that can help to prevent some of the problems that child protection has to deal with today. And there's a lot of important debates to take, and I think, among other things. the importance of the representative’s assessment of the threshold to be applied to the services of family protection. This is also a debate that we need to take on child protection. We see that both different family protection offices and different child protection services have different practices for which threshold they have to intervene. Some people want the widest possible services, while others want to focus on those families, or the children, that have the most problems. There may be good reasons for both approaches, but it is also an important political responsibility to discuss this. Then I am also pleased that the interpellant so clearly emphasises that family policy today concerns all families, and that developing a forward-looking family policy must be about having arrangements, having a political debate that includes all the different types of families that we have in Norway today. Then it's also important, I think, that we exceed what has sometimes been presented as a contrast between gender policy and family policy. It is true that very much of what has gone under the heading of gender equality policy in Norwegian political debate is really a very good family policy. I think, for example, increasing female participation in those parts of working life where it is currently small will also contribute to a pressure to change some jobs in a positive direction. Last year, the Ministry held a number of conferences around the country, together with the social partners, to discuss how to facilitate a more family-friendly working life. It was a very exciting process, in which we were not least shown many of the good examples of how both companies and municipalities are able to create jobs that facilitate both mother and father being in full employment and at the same time having a good time for their family. In this context, it is also worth discussing the various proposals that are now coming from the opposition to the so-called flexibility of labour regulations, which can prove to be very bad family policies very quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e861	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for bringing up a very important theme. I fully agree with the previous speakers who have said that it is good to discuss family policies in a broader way. There's been a little talk about alternates here today, and I'm actually one of them. I'm a teacher in my daily work. When you are a teacher, you can no longer use a fixed template where it says: mother and father. Because it's like someone has just dad, or mom, who they live with, and someone might live with the best, and someone also lives with Dad and Dad. We've had completely new family forms in Norway than we had 50 years ago. The family is – and must be – numerous. It is gender policy, education policy and labour policy that have helped to create the forms of family that we, among others, have. has today. And new family forms will require new family policies, and it will require – and it will create – new attitudes. In August, I'm going to a very special wedding. Then I'm going to get married to one of my best friends. Then the first is to be married to the Stortinget from the Telemark Labour Party, Odin Bohmann. And he's going to marry Børge. I can go into that wedding because we've had a government that has introduced a common marriage law, a law that means so much to me, and to all those who can now marry and establish new families. For the Labour Party, inclusion and tolerance are fundamental to family policy. Maybe one day, when Børge Aunan gets married to Odin Bohmann, he gets a Bohmann number. 3 or No 4, because they can now legally search for adoption. I'm proud to be a member of a party that has a struggle for a common marriage law, I'm proud that we have that law, and I'm glad to see many of the new great families we'll get in Norway. It is very good that we are able to discuss family policy more broadly. I totally agree with the interpellant that it's about a lot more than parental leave and parental quota, although it's especially important to talk about it too. I really want to take advantage of the opportunity here today to hit a blow for the many, new and inclusive family we have in Norway. While there is a lot of good to talk about, we also have some challenges that the Council of State addressed. Something that concerns me greatly, and for which I am burning, is the work against power in close relationships. The family selection is widespread and something we need to take the most seriously. I'm glad that the Council of State also mentions it in relation to the marriage of coercion, and how important that work is. Here, family protection offices, Alternatives to Election, Children’s and Young People’s Alarm Phone – organisations and important provision for the young, the women, and the men who are exposed to this – are very important, and it is incredibly important to continue working on this. Unfortunately, the family is not always good, the family can be harmful. That's also why it's so important to have a good, professionally strong child protection. More can become a family today than before. Odin and Børge may, after they are married, seek adoption. Per and Kari who have children may have the world's most like-minded dishes. A couple who cannot have children naturally can get assisted conception. And there's room for and desire for more of these new family forms. I would like to thank the interpellant for putting the theme on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e880	It's a little strange to record that the interpellant is promoting an interpellant on the family situation, instead of perhaps calling the Council of State to hear what kind of family policy this government wants. She may have done so, but she did not get the answer she wanted. The interpellant is now once a member of a party that sits in the government, and it is the government that runs the family policy that clearly has major challenges or that does not exist. But the Progress Party will thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic. The Progress Party fully agrees with the interpellant, and is, in fact, like the interpellant so to speak, equally concerned with family policy, and agrees that it is an important theme to put on the agenda. After hearing the last speakers, I would like to read out the question asked by the interpellant: ‘How can we help ensure that the broad family policy is brought on the agenda also in other policy areas?’ [[...]] That's the question. Then it's disappointing to see that almost only the family committee is present in this room. It should actually be almost the entire Biggest. There should also be government councils from more ministries than only the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion. The theme addressed in relation to family policies affects many other departments. It concerns, inter alia: health, it may affect justice, and I will also include energy, and not least it concerns the Ministry of Finance. Then the interpellant is inside the family structure. Yes, what is family structure today? It's something different than it was 50 years ago. That's great. We see a lot of different families out there with different challenges. It's good that we have big differences, but the family structure is different than it was before. It's a family that's in development, and then it's important to accommodate the families that exist, both those that are A4 and those that are A2, or those that organize in other ways. As I said, family policy is cross-sectoral, and it is important that there are several sectors working towards a common family policy. We see today that we have an explosion in childhood and youth psychiatry. We see that there is a strong increase in violence in close relationships, and we see that there is a large increase in crime among children and young people. We see – as we have discussed before – that we have a child protection in crisis, with more and more children in need of child protection. What's going on, and what can we do with that development? Where will we end and where will this debate end? I almost want to challenge the Council of State that this is such an important topic that we actually need a big message about family policy. With regard to the challenges we've had in the last 50 years, and how the family situation is now: before, we had grandparents who were much more present. Today we have grandparents who are going to realize themselves, and we have parents where both are going to work to make a career, or because they need income. Before, the neighbors might have been more present, they're not today, because they have more than enough with themselves. Is this a development that we want, and is it a development that we, as politicians, can interfere in and make rules and laws for? I'm just asking. The interpellant was concerned about how important it is that we not only problematize this, but also see that there is a development that has been desired, a development that is also for the better. The debate has been a lot about the time frame, it has been about the father's quota and equality, cash support and kindergartens. That's what's been family policy. I think it is important that we, as politicians, now have a focus on family policy. What the Progress Party believes is that this government actually lacks a basic belief in the family. It is like the state having rules, quotas and regulations, and it can help everything. What the families need, and what separates the opposition – or especially the Advance Party – from the government, is that the Advance Party has a basic belief in the family and that the family can choose for itself. What the family needs are less bureaucracy, less regulation, less systems and less guardianship. Yes, they actually need a new government – a new government that has a basic belief in the individual and in the family's ability to govern its own everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e901	With regard to the introductory remarks of the representative, the President will stress that all representatives have the same right to make interpellations, where the intention of the interpellation is to have a debate in the Chamber. This applies to both opposition and position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e904	I am happy to have the opportunity to discuss family policy from a holistic point of view, and I commend the interpellant Nilsson Ramsøy to give us the opportunity to do so. The family is the main community of society and the arena of security, belonging and development. The family creates and secures a secure framework for the growth of children. The right will therefore ensure that families are given the possibility of autonomy and influence over the education and care of their children. The family shall be guaranteed the freedom of choice and the ability to take responsibility for themselves and their loved ones. Every family shall be respected for its unique way of being and living. Human self-esteem and self-respect must be at the heart of family policy. The right therefore believes that it is necessary to give people the opportunity to take responsibility and to show care and care for people at the heart of their lives. Where the State assumes responsibility, personal efforts are often weakened. It's important that everyone takes responsibility for putting them around when the rest of society doesn't stretch to. Those who are not satisfied with public solutions must be given the opportunity to choose between different alternatives. Children are different. Families are different. View of learning, mission and care varies. The State will never be able to ensure a sufficient diversity of offers, and people must therefore be guaranteed the freedom to choose differently. The role of the family is constantly changing. This requires rethinking and action to better address family needs and new challenges. The Community within the family is contributing to the creation of a secure framework for the growth of children. The right will therefore ensure that families have the greatest possible influence over the care of their children. Over the last few years, there have been more and more schemes, laws and regulations to ensure different concerns and needs that emerge, and many of them – most of them – have been very good. But the problem today is that none of these rules and arrangements are being looked at as a whole. The right is therefore calling for a government to put this in context and to see if this legislation is in the best interests of the families. Too often, politicians' desire to lead families in the right direction leads to rules that premise how families organise their lives. That's why it's also a shame if we're going to use it as a target for achieving other goals in society. We've seen this lately. Then, of course, we're thinking about parental leave, where maybe the goal of full equality, and that mom and dad should take the exact same leave period, go ahead of the care of the baby, and that's the best of the child and the care solution for a child that's the basis for having a parental leave at all. This has consequences in addition to the individual family there and then, because diversity disappears. The possibility of being, thinking and living differently is gone for most people. Do we want a society where everyone is equal, shaped by what politicians always think is right? No, the Right answer is that, because the Right is concerned about ensuring that families have the best options to make the right choices for themselves and their closest ones. It should also be politicians' job number one. Finally, I want to address another issue that is very important when talking about family policy, and that is the prevention work. It is important to avoid people and families having to face situations that can have a major negative impact on life and everyday life. In order to ensure that children and young people have good growth conditions, it is important that the family functions well, regardless of what the family looks like. I also hope that prevention will be an important part of family policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e921	I would like to join the entire representative of Vågslid's contributions and in particular the tribute of the common marriage law and the diverse family life. Since other representatives today have been involved in such personal trust, I can say that I have ten siblings, five siblings, four half-siblings and one brother, so that we are doing well with us who have a "my children and your children" growing up as well. But I'm going to do a little more concrete work. There have been many who have said very well about the overall perspective, but I want to talk about a field where I believe that today's family law is deficient, and it concerns cohabitants. One quarter of all couples living together today in Norway are cohabitants, i.e. that they have not married. There's a lot of reasons couples don't get married. Some people don't want it for different reasons, some save for a big wedding -- maybe they get so far, maybe they don't get that far -- some don't agree to get married and disagree, and for some people it just gets like that. Not everyone is planning their lives to the same extent. Cohabitants exist in all ages. There are many young people who are consensual, and there are many pensioners who are consensual, who come together after marriage has ended for different reasons. Common to all is that the consensual union should end once, either in the event of a breakup or in the event of a single door. What kind of rights do you have at the end of cohabitation? It's a little unclear -- initially, it's very few. If you have an apartment together and one door, the other one is left with a whole loan and half an apartment. The other half then inherit the heirs, whether they be children or parents. Another common example is that one, most often the man, pays loans and the other pays to the household, food, etc. What kind of rights do you have if you go apart? Many people think they're working out right in the house the same way you do if you're married – you don't. You can go to court and try to get, but initially you have quite a few rights. Legal advice for women tells me that they are being called down by especially women who experience being left with little after the end of cohabitation. We expect the cohabiters themselves to secure their rights through contract and will. But the SSB shows that it's only 15-20 pst. which actually does. I think it's both because it's very alarming and very difficult to plan what's going to happen if you leave each other or one door. Are you going to take my record collection? Are we going to pay the same share of the loan, or are we going to pay the same percentage of our salary for the loan? So how is it going to be divided when we break up? All of this is very difficult jus. Governments have done a lot of good to strengthen the rights of cohabiters. Among other things, you now have the right to sit in the same place if you have a common child. But what is missing is a holistic approach, a law that both clears, clarifies and strengthens the rights of cohabitants. A lot of people don't know what kind of rights they themselves have, and most people don't guarantee their own rights by contract. In Velferds-Norway, we expect the community to share in securing our rights. It's part of the deal we make with society. The Council of State referred to the level of conflict in the event of a breach. I think that especially ended cohabitation gets a higher level of conflict because there's so much uncertainty about how to divide the values between themselves, and I think the kids suffer from it. It is time for us to take coexistence as a modern form of life seriously. It is time for us to introduce a cohabitation law that strengthens the rights. There will be an important family policy and equality policy grip to do. I disagree with the Right in that there's a contradiction there. I think good equality policy is good family policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e943	I will first give tribute to the interpellant from the Central Party for having raised a very important debate. I would like to say that I am pleased that the position, i.e. the government parties, is now taking the initiative for debate on the important issues in the main hall and not just in the closed rooms. The pattern of families is developing, has been developing for a long time and will continue to develop. The more important it is that we debate family policy in line with new developments, that we learn to live with the diversity that is developing, whether we are teachers, kindergarten staff or in other ways we need to reorient ourselves in this context, and that we discuss how we take care of each other in the new pattern, how we take care of communities in society, and not just facilitate one-sided individualism. We have laws and arrangements in a number of areas in a welfare state that have gradually developed instruments for the most part. The health stations take care that you see and that you move naturally already from a young age. The community, the municipality, makes sure that you get carrots when you get to school, that you get homework when you're finished at school, that you get advice on what kind of education to choose, that you are advised on what type of contraceptive to choose when you move out on new adventures in youth or adult age, and when you build the annex to your living room, you're told how to do it so that you don't get to see from your neighbor. How much resources do we use as a society to support people where it means the most, on how we feel about those we live with? Why do we spend so little on what matters most to people, how do we feel about those who are closest to us? All of the other themes and arrangements we have are important, but without the family life, many people feel that much of the other thing actually becomes meaningless. The interpellant points out that ‘our time is also marked by solitude, disintegration and broken relationships’, to quote from the interpellation text. The words "marked by" are quite strong words. But we all notice that, we who at least live in a community with kids, how everyday life in the communities is characterized by the broken relationships and relationships that wear and break up, and how we all have to deal with it in neighborhoods, in sports, in schools and large families. Breakup is difficult because it affects the most personal and valuable things in our lives. It could happen to everyone. For the individual, it could be a right choice. At the same time, we see that the sum of it can be a social problem. How can we, as a fellow human being, but not least how can we, as a society, better support to prevent a real breakup? It will be the big question when we see the great consequences it has in the lives of individuals, and we see the great consequences it can have in a family, for young people, in the big family and, once again, in the community and for the big community. In recent times, we have seen that the new family patterns and break-ups are now being used as an argument in the debate on the Working Environment Act – on how to adapt to these developments. I am very pleased that in this debate we see several red-greens now lifting up family protection, and that even without the Christian People's Party having asked questions about it first. How much suffering we could actually have prevented if we were able to reduce the number of broken lives by, for example, 30 pst. through a commitment to a life course, community action and family protection? Why do we put so little effort into what matters most in our lives? Family protection has huge challenges and too few resources to be out in the workplace, out there among people and taking preventive action. We have recently seen how life courses have been treated by the government: cut, cut and cut again. I think it's interesting what the interpellant says, that the family has to be recognised to be important in itself and not just to achieve other goals. I see and notice the answers both from the Council of State and the other representatives that the centre party here has more in common in the centre than with the red-green parties. But there has been an important debate, and that debate should not stop this interpellation either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e962	Like others, I would like to thank the interpellant for having an important debate. But first of all I would like to say that I do not entirely agree with the interpellant when she says that discussing parental leave, kindergartens, etc. are narrow themes. Because if we go back a little bit in time, when the financial crisis rolled over us, and see which countries it was, and which countries it is still struggling, we see that family policy is one of the important prerequisites that Norway has just come out of the crisis, as many countries are struggling with today. It is, of course, a regulated working life, but also a good family policy through kindergartens and parental leave, etc. which ensures that we have a high level of female participation in this country. These are the main prerequisites for our success, that we have been through the financial crisis so well. In addition, we have high birth rates. At the other end of the scale, for example, we'll find countries such as Greece, Spain, Portugal and Italy, which have a low employment rate among women, and low birth rates — especially those countries that are currently struggling with the financial crisis. There's a reason there's so many delegations coming from abroad to study our family policies and to learn, because it's just their way out of the economic mess they're up in. This is the result of a policy. The situation in many European countries is also a result of policies, or lack of them. That's the story of what happens if you follow the rhetoric of the right hand side about almost letting everything hang and go without any state interference. That's why it's a little depressing to hear the arguments that are being used, especially from the Right, but also from the Progress Party on this topic. It's an important debate, and I want to focus on what's growing up, child's growing up conditions. Rather than discuss what is the right family, we need to have a debate on how we can help to ensure that the family, large or small, can become a safe framework for growth, which contributes to robust children with good self-esteem. Daily we can read in the newspapers about children who have challenges and who are struggling with everyday life. There are many challenges in our society, and many measures are being taken. We spend a lot of resources in kindergarten, in school, in child protection and through our health care institutions. In short, we can do a lot from the public to help children, but probably we're getting a lot further with a greater focus on the role of the family and not least the family's responsibilities. That's why I'm glad that this topic is being addressed in an interpellation. It is important that measures against children are followed up with measures at home. One of the most obvious examples of this could be read in the Newspaper a few months ago, namely about the programme «The Amazing Years». We could read that three out of five children with serious behavioural diagnoses were informed after their parents had undergone a comprehensive guidance program together with the children. We see many symptoms of a society where people have problems with being good to themselves, and there can be many new, big class distinctions between those who succeed in our society and those who don't have the power to hang out with. This is also a challenge for policy-making as a tool. Are we able to put in place measures where they work best, namely, to drive prevention, or is there largely fire extinguisher we are doing, also from this room? Nord-Trøndelag has done a commendable job here. The county council has set up a growth commission that has now resulted in a 10-year growth programme for the whole county, with all 24 municipalities in the county. This is a very important work and valuable. Several counties should follow up on similar work and, in particular, the family should be connected more closely with, for example: kindergarten, school and auxiliaries. In short, we need a social virtue for children's growing-up conditions, with a link between the various public tools, volunteering and families, and not least business. In this work there has to be an increased focus on family protection. Many people are making contact with family protection today. Many can receive valuable help. We also need a debate on how we can equip family protection to help more in the work on what is happening after a breakup. We must also dare to engage in one hour of compulsory mediation before a child-sharing trial is sufficient, or whether we should consider imposing stricter requirements on parents before they can bring that kind of case to justice. That kind of thing has nothing to do in a courtroom. The result is often more robust when negotiated in cooperation between parents than when they are tried by a court.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e979	Thank you so much to the interpellant who has drawn up an important theme, the family – it applies to all of us, including everyone in this room, although there are still most women, I see, as we talk a little about equality as well. Today's family structure looks completely different than when I grew up, with a core family and a generation home with grandparents right nearby. Some families still live in such close relationships with each other, but there are fewer and fewer who do. We know that several families are in a resolution, and that it's become more common for children to grow up with single parents or grandparents. A 12 - year - old minimum member of my family came home one day. Then it would clearly be a big discussion in the class about who had married parents, about who didn't, and who had other parents. He felt very in the minority. And that's when he said to us at the dinner table: Mom and Dad, can I call you an antique? Well, we've been married for 34 years, so I said an antique has a great value, so maybe you can call us an antique. It was kind of polite. Societal developments have changed considerably in the last 50 years. There are more out-of-work mothers than native mothers now than before. The work of women, the crime of living, the increase in cohabitation and the large family of mine, yours and our children are involved in creating a different family pattern than before. We have to accept that and make the best of it. Many people find it difficult to get through everyday life, with the raising and bringing of children, jobs and tight finances at an early stage of establishment. Despite the fact that there are well-developed kindergartens, SFOs and leave and social welfare schemes for both parents, this is still a life situation that many people feel is strenuous. A few years ago, the word "time squeeze" was the most commonly used description for young children's parents who felt that the time of an active life and the family did not go far enough. As the years go by, care is taken for the parental regeneration that weighs on many, especially women. One might call it the phase of life instead, because it's just the different "clamps" in the different phases of life that are changing. One can not only take child families and their challenges, but also look at the life phase of the individual and his or her life. The Progress Party has put forward proposals for paying care leave for relatives, but it was voted down. We see, as so many times before, that the government party is well to vote against, and then to take up the proposal and turn it into its own, as SV councillor Anniken Huitfeldt did when she appeared in the newspaper on April 7th this year. She boasted that women should be paid maternity leave for the care of sick parents — maternity leave for women. She didn't mean anything about men getting it. So where was the equality of SV? This is where the Council of State Lighthouse has a task. We know that there are many people who do well to work part-time, just to get more time for family and leisure. It's a self-inflicted desire. Not all women feel like working all the time, even if they want to be pensioners. Of course, it's a bad option for those who want to combine work and family when they lose a pension to work part-time. Women are still getting worse out there, despite the fact that the equality is at the height of the government party. Many employers are taking a new approach when it comes to seeing the link between working life and private life. There's something about having a good home, and one also has a good time at work. These employers make it more possible to work from home. With a home office one or more working days, a single room where you can make yourself available to focus on both your job and your home track in a good way. Why should a person be physically present when you don't need it? How many people don't recognize when they have a child who is going to be followed by a dentist, or how many others are going to do it? One has a school conference to take place in the school days, one has a playtime, or one is going to follow one of the parents to the exact same thing, or there's a note in the mailbox that it and that day come the fairman and one must be in place. So we get the question, at least when it doesn't apply to ourselves, who should do it? Who can get out of work? Is it me, is it the man/sambuar – who will it be? Honor be employers who see this, and who do something about it, in the form that one is allowed to work at home. It is not that easy for the workers in the care sector to be present. But here some technologies can help do something -- if not everything -- easier. Alternative turns are another important point, especially in this industry. In particular, parents with shared care will have the most time with their children when they have them, and work as much as possible when they don't have them. This requires a more open view. But when employers and employers want to join them, central organizations put their feet down. If you're lucky, you might get a one-year discount. What, then, about the continuity of life and the individual’s needs? It's where individuals are outrun. What about life - phase considerations? Here, government friends in LO need an indication of what's best for families.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1002	As a granddaughter – there are four grandchildren who have had the word here, until at least now, it is very good – I just had to say the word. Point 1: Having been on the Stortinget for six years now, one of the things I'm most proud to have been on, is to carry out the family reform of the times. The family reform of the times is the child hail lift that has been carried out during these six years. When I arrived at Stortinget six years ago and you became a granddaughter, you didn't know if you had a kindergarten place the following year. Now there is a guarantee of a nursery place the following year. What we three government parties have done together is to ensure toddlers a real freedom of choice, to make sure that you know that when the kid comes to kindergarten, it's a legal right to kindergarten, if you want to. There has been a huge boost, a cooperation between private and local authorities, but the State, Stortinget, has set up with the money. We have succeeded in this. I do not know how many rounds and in how many election campaigns there have been talk of child care coverage, but this government has actually done so, has completed it. The main reform introduced by the government is the kindergarten reform. Point 2 applies to something that's also very good for me as a granddaughter, because I'm probably among those who wouldn't have chosen to take out so much of a father's allowance if the Storting hadn't introduced it. It is very wise that we have carried out the investment in the feather quota that we have done here in Stortinget. In addition to introducing a larger spring quota, we have also extended the leave period. It has been a cost-intensive but quite correct reform. The family policy we have in Norway has led, in sum, to a historically high birth rate. It has reason to be proud of all the parties here, because family policy has not happened in one day. The fact that we in Norway are now able to get higher birth rates compared to all other countries in Western Europe is a sensation. And that's the best indistinct idea that the family policy we have in Norway is right, when young children's parents – toddlers and toddlers’ fathers – want to have more children, not fewer children. So we have every reason to be proud. So over to another system, which was predicted below and home if the red-green got the majority. That was the cash support. Cash support is still there, but now it is at least a real choice for parents. Before that one was forced to use it because it was not a nursery place. Now you can choose if you want to use it. But we in the Center Party believe that the time has come to target the cash support against the youngest, because that is where most see the difficulties – in the transition from maternity leave to kindergarten. Then the sum may also be higher, and the cash support may be more relevant to several. So I hope that in the next couple of years we can carry out a reform of the cash support, target it and strengthen it towards the smallest children, because there are most parents here want to use it, and there are most parents here want freedom of choice. This government has guaranteed freedom of choice, and I am proud of that. So finally to family protection, which is very important. Once again, in the government parties, we showed that we have an entirely practical and ground-based relationship to this, because what were we doing in the government parties in the budgetary procedure last autumn? Well, we strengthened the Church's family protection, because we thought it was a good move to have a voluntary sector as well as the public that is involved in family protection. Therefore, the government decided to add more money to it. So this government – and the government parties – has over time shown that it wants to prioritise family, and we have used practical solutions to get a good family policy. We've used private and municipal builders. We still have the cash support scheme, but we want to target it. We have also used the Church's family protection to achieve the family policy that the government stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1017	I would like to thank all those who have taken part in the debate. When we hear both the diversity of the submissions and the new ideas that emerge, it shows why it may just be so important to promote an interpellation in the Stortinge in the matter and not just take a phone call to the Council of State. That's exactly what's important, that you can think wide. I want to say that even though we may disagree in a number of areas, this shows that you have a very strong commitment to family policy, and that you agree that you have to discuss this across many sectors. I also want to challenge the Council of State to put on a little leadership shirt here to go with it both the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Labour, perhaps the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Knowledge, etc. to look at how to follow up many of the thoughts that come here. Discussing family policies in as broad a field as we do now, I think you're totally dependent on looking a little bit ahead in time, and getting where you want to go. So it's important all the time to be aware of where the boundary goes for what's the family area and what's the state's, which more people have been in. We might disagree a little bit about exactly where these limits are going to go. With regard to the discussion about work, I would say that there has been a lot of interesting – both looking at how employers can be more flexible in many places than they are today, and at this with part-time, which often comes up in discussions about care professionals. This is also important in family policy. When we see that so many people are actually unable to do it – both mother and father have a full job – we have to ask ourselves if it is possible to make it work together. Either you have to accept that it's that it's difficult for many, or you have to see if there's any way to solve these problems. And before you solve them, you won't get into the goal of a more like-minded parenthood either. Efforts to prevent non-compliance are important. I agree with the representative, Hope, that we can save society a lot of money if you manage to get in early enough and prevent it wide enough. It's both about money and not least about focus. Now it is the case that guides are often made about everything – and it is not certain that that’s right – but I think that we have an important role to play in helping to raise the local authorities’ awareness of their responsibilities in implementing family policies, and that there is a lot to do in municipalities to pursue the best possible family policy. So many people say that there are many who look at Norway. That's true. Compared to many other countries, this country is very good. But at the same time, it's important that we have a discussion where we try to see the trends that we have now. What will it look like in Norway – and what will family policy be like – in 10–15 years? There we, as big-time politicians, have a very great responsibility today, and then we have to be a little impatient and not very satisfied with what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1030	This has been a good debate. I can assure you that the reason we have it is not that the representative Christina Nilsson Ramsøy did not get to me on the phone, but that it is a wish on the part of the government parties to have such long-term debates in the Chamber. That's what I'm going to say, for example. to ask questions about what it is about our society that so many more children are reported to be exposed to care failure than before. I often ask myself if that means that we have a society where changed family patterns make more children skeptical, for example. I don't think so. I think it's a reflection of us, for example. have been given child protection that is able to capture more, that we have public services that are better equipped to help those who need the most, and that some of the problems that you previously viewed as private, and just as something that was to be discussed within the family’s four walls, are now more widely accepted for being a social issue. I want to give the representative Solvency Horne right in one thing, and there is a need for more than just those defined family politicians to be concerned with family policy. It's like in Norway that we think a little too often that what we live on is oil, most of all, while what we actually live on is people, people's work, people's ability to contribute to society. It is then clear that prevention, which means that today's children do not end up on the sidelines of society tomorrow, is incredibly important for what this society will live on. The fact that we have a gender equality policy that ensures that women work as much as men is absolutely essential for value creation, well-being and prosperity in Norway in the future. That being said, for that reason, I do not disagree with the points of the interpellant, which is that family policy has a value in itself. Providing safe child rearing conditions is a moral responsibility for all of us. Social violence Vedum raised the question of birth rates. It's an interesting question that we should also discuss, and that underlines the point. I was in Berlin a short time ago and had a meeting with the German family minister, a Christian democrat, who was busy learning from Norway. While we have a birth rate of 1.98 children per woman, they have a rate of 1.3 in Germany. They had three key chords for their conversations with us, and it was kindergartens, parent killing beds, and working life. They saw it as changes that they had to make to create a more equal society, where more could combine it to be working on having children. For example, in Germany today. a working life based on the fact that very many people have to work in the evening. Finally, as far as I can remember the last time I spoke to Anniken Huitfeldt, she was still, I think, a member of the Workers' Party. It would have been fun if she was an SV, but she's probably in the Workers' Party yet, so I'm sending that challenge on there. Otherwise, thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1045	That being the case, it is no. 3 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1059	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose to give rise to a replacement of lines within the allocated speaking time of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the member of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1068	The kindergarten is under constant discussion, and many parents are both curious and insecure, but also pleased with the fantastic offer that kindergarten represents. We know that parents are very conscious of what's best for their child, and that they're looking with light and light for tips, for information, on how to make the best possible arrangements for their children and their growing-up conditions. We look at it on the Internet, where there is a huge debate going on all the time we see that, for example. Jesper Juul is one of those who lives very well on the curiosity and insecurity of their parents, and we know that there is a great focus on this also among the employees of kindergartens. A good childcare facility is, as we discussed in the previous debate, a very central part of the family policy in Norway. With full child-care coverage, we have guaranteed the parents a real freedom of choice. Through the introduction of a maximum price, we have implemented an annual tax relief equivalent to around NOK 20 000 for families with two children. It is also gratifying that this has happened without affecting the quality of the nursery. We know that many employees in kindergarten are also critical that some parents need the child to be in kindergarten for a long time. But we also know that many employees are able to deal with their parents themselves, and that good agreements are made between the parents and the kindergarten. We know that the parents spend much less hours for their children in kindergarten than they have agreed, so that the problem that is outlined by the Christian People's Party in this proposal, we consider little real. As this is a matter of procedure, I will try to limit my characterization of the proposal of the Christian People's Party. I'd rather have Marianne Ennäs Brokke in Frantsebräten Kindergarten speak for me. She says that she thinks one should think about before imposing a time limit, and says the following: ‘Our experience is that parents pick up as quickly as they can. In this case, it is important to trust that parents make the right choices for their children." In short, the Christian People's Party is alone in this Chamber to wish to restrict parents' freedom of choice. A large aggregate increase is behind the conclusions of the letter of reply given by the Council of State. We know that this is being solved in good cooperation between kindergarten and home, and we do not see the need to introduce a maximum limit, which is even so high over the number of hours that most parents use today – which could send an unfortunate signal to others too that there is a government recommendation regarding time use in kindergarten. That is why I am content with it and look forward to a good debate. Then we'll see if we come up with any more views on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1084	The Progress Party gives its full support to the rapporteur's review of this matter. The Progress Party believes that the proposal that exists from the Christian People's Party is almost going backwards into the future. We know that the situation we have today, with the possibility of having flexible opening hours, and that it's not maximum time, helps to do much better for both parents and families. We know that a lot of people go on both shifts and tours, and we also know that lonely people need a kindergarten offer. Then it's important that kindergartens are flexible in relation to what families need. The parents are the ones who know the children best, and the parents themselves must control how long they want their children in kindergarten. That's why I'm a little surprised by the Christian People's Party's proposals here today, because the Christian People's Party should be the party that is basically the family party, and should have a policy that meets the family's needs. When parents want to have their children in kindergarten and want to have that flexibility, I have to say that I am surprised at the proposal that is being dealt with today. Then we have to look at what the situation is today. There are very few children who spend more than 35 hours in the kindergarten today. It's actually under 20 pst. Which is there for over 41 hours, so this is not a big problem. That the family can have a flexibility and perhaps deliver their children a little later in the day and then pick them up a little later, the Progress Party believes is the right way to go. The Progress Party wants much more flexibility in opening hours, and we want there to be a diversity in kindergarten provision. I wish that the Christian People's Party had been equally concerned with the situation that is today, when it's not full child-care. Many of us probably saw the TV 2 news on Saturday, where there was a mother who would spend four hours delivering her child to the nursery if she said yes to the offer she had today. The government boasts of full kindergarten coverage, but it is not today. If you have not born your child before 1 September, you will not have guaranteed a kindergarten. And when you heard the article on Battle Violence Vedum in the previous case, you could think that it's this government that's behind the pediatric conciliation. It's not. It was a total expansion, with the Advance Party, which was part of the kindergarten agreement. Today's kindergarten reform must not be forgotten either. It's not the government that should have the credit for it. It's also the private kindergartens. But as the arrangement is today, we have an opportunity to have flexible opening hours. The Progress Party has made more proposals in this matter, and one could wish to have flexible opening hours, as is possible today. However, the situation is that kindergartens wishing to have other opening hours are not able to do so because the legislation prevents the framework funding for these kindergartens. For this reason, the Progress Party wants the regulation to open up the facilities for the kindergartens around the municipalities that see a need for opening hours other than what they have today. Then it has to keep up with money. So with this, I want to take up the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1103	The representative of Solvency Horne has taken up the proposal to which she refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1106	Right doesn't think that we do family life for the most part better by introducing stamping clocks into kindergartens. When I'm in a mother's club with the mothers in the kindergarten, or when I'm talking to babies' parents here on the Stortinget or with parents of other children in the kindergarten, I don't remember hearing anyone talk about you think it's okay that the children are as far as possible in the kindergarten. On the contrary, every baby's parent I meet looks at the clock and tries to get away from the work to hurry up and pick up the children in the kindergarten, and then go home to get family time with the children. I think it's a bit of a special problem you're traveling. Even though I understand the intention and the idea of a Christian People's Party, I don't think it's as simple as just banning everything you don't like. Today, it is true that municipalities as a local nursery authority consider the need for any restrictions on the residence and opening hours of the nursery. Looking at the reports from kindergartens, they show that the scheduled opening time and agreed residence time in the vast majority of cases far exceed the actual child's residence time in kindergarten. We see clearly that the parents want the children to spend the shortest possible time in kindergarten, because their parents prefer to spend time with their children. The right does not see the great need to introduce a max time into the kindergarten, because the numbers tell us that it is not a very big problem. The kindergarten itself is very clear that they are skeptical about imposing such restrictions, as it reduces the flexibility that children, parents and kindergarten both here and there need to get their everyday lives up. In the Right, we have confidence that each family, in consultation with the kindergarten, will be able to find good solutions for the children, both in terms of how long and when the child is going to be in the kindergarten. In those cases where the child’s residence in the nursery is too long for the individual child, it is the responsibility of the nursery to have a dialogue with the parents in order to find the best possible solution for the child concerned. My impression is that this is happening to the greatest extent, that kindergarten managers and others in kindergarten tell their parents if the child is too long in kindergarten. I also think it is a proposal that, perhaps especially to single parents, is quite brutal. For those who are alone with the children, and perhaps working evenings or working shifts, maybe the only option is to use the nursery a few hours in the evening. I don't think anyone is in this room, and neither are any parents, who want children to stay more than necessary in the nursery. Therefore, I believe that there is no special reason to impose restrictions on the kindergartens that want to give parents an offer even in the evening and night. We must give parents more flexibility, more freedom of choice. Now it's like this in a family, at least in most families, that both parents are out of work -- they're rushing to work, rushing home, trying to be environmentally friendly and traveling collectively, spending extra time on it, and then rushing home to get the kids to go home and make dinner. Then I think that if the Stortinge will decide to introduce some sort of stamping clock – I don't understand what the sanctions are – it is simply to go a little too far compared to taking away the responsibility of parents to provide for their child's best. The polite thing about this matter, on the other hand, is to hear the red-greens talk for once about the fight against premise, and how important it is for parents to have freedom of choice and flexibility. It's like music in the right ear, and we'd like to hear the red-green talk more about it. If the red-greens have also understood that freedom of choice is important for young children's parents, then we have really come a long way in family policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1125	I hope the representative of Hofstad Helleland is looking forward to hearing my statement. As well known to the members of the committee, I come from the country's most beautiful city, Bergen – the city that has only one fault, that it is governed by the bourgeois. But we can leave it there for now. When you're in Bergen, you can risk living in one part of the city, working in another part of the city, and having kindergarten in a third part of the city. The seven mountains and the lack of collective effort make it extremely difficult to travel between the urban areas – both by car, by bus and by rail. So what do you do then, if one of the Christian People's Party Bergen has three cities to deal with, and the Christian People's Party's proposal on limitations in residence time would be adopted nationally? I would like to encourage the Christian People's Party to respond specifically to it: what do you do? If you have to stop working, go to work, hire a day’s mother, or do you have to take care of something privately? What concrete steps are taken if you do not reach your residence time, for example. sometimes a week? It's like the representative of Hofstad Helleland was in, people work shifts, people work turns, people are single-parents, people have a working life to deal with, and people try to get ends to meet. The alternative is not that we all move back to the 1950s. If that had been the consequences of the proposal, at least I would have been against it. People work -- someone has a tour that makes them work a lot sometimes, and little else, and people are single mothers, as I mentioned. Then the option becomes a day mother, and then the option becomes a family member. There will be good arrangements, and there will be bad arrangements. The alternative may also be that a person simply has to step down on his position. Is it not better, then, that the children are among the people they know, in a life they know, have a pedagogical offer — namely, that they are in the nursery they are usually in? Finally, it must be allowed to point out that it is a bit funny that this proposal comes from the Christian People's Party. They are often the first to accuse SV of disincentives to parents' choices. Then it's a little strange that the Christian People's Party has so little trust in just parents. As others have been involved, I think that all parents want more time with their children. I think a lot of parents have a bad conscience, and I run back and forth quickly to get everything else. The solution to this must be to find in the workplace, I think. I am therefore asking the Christian People's Party to think thoroughly about the flexibility of working life, what the collaborators think about the work environment law and more overtime, and what it means for children's time with their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1142	I will first address the proposals that the Christian People's Party is behind in the vote. This is an interesting debate. Freedom of choice – I will first relate some comments to a word that has been mentioned by several speakers here today, and which naturally comes up in such a debate. Why are we talking so much about freedom of choice in politics? It is because most people believe, with slightly varying strengths depending on where they are in the political landscape, that everyone should have the right to decide his or her own life, therefore freedom of choice. It's very rare we talk about the importance of freedom of choice in terms of the right to rule over others. We do that in family policy, because it's children, children who are naturally unable to take full responsibility for their own lives. That's why we're talking about parental freedom, because they have to decide about the children who naturally can't take care of themselves. It leads me to the simple point that is also the starting point for this matter: Freedom of choice is about respect for the integrity of the individual human being and respect for the individual human being. Children are also human. They're individuals. They are entitled to rights. Therefore, freedom of choice for parents cannot be extended indefinitely, even for the Christian People's Party, because it must be balanced against the simple fact that children are actually individuals who have rights. In all areas — in school, in kindergarten, in child protection — we actually balance the rights of parents and adults to control the children up against the fact that the children actually have rights themselves. That's why it's actually an ideological short-circuit that's behind the majority's reasoning here. It is a natural consequence of developments that this proposal is now coming to public debate and will be discussed in the Grand Duchy. Now we have after a while full babysitting. With the deficiencies pointed out by some here, we are approaching a situation with full coverage. This means that while the children are competing for kindergartens, the kindergartens will now begin to compete for the children. It also sets new premises in relation to how kindergartens behave and develop their offerings. Opening hours can – we have already seen trends – be a competitive advantage that some people want to take advantage of. We also see demands from other parts of society that kindergartens have to be open through the clock to facilitate employment first and foremost. That's the argument. By then having a pressure against longer opening hours, the natural need arises to discuss the rights of the children in that context. I will give tribute to the Left who, through the proposal they have put on the table today, actually shows that they have understood that issue. The proposal made by the Christian People's Party applies to a maximum time of 47.5 hours per week, which many would think is too long for a child to be in kindergarten. But it's just designed as a maximum limit to show that here there are some basic rights at the bottom that actually also take into account the lonely caregivers, who were mentioned here, who have a long journey to and from work. So there might be different discussions about where that limit is going to go exactly. There we would like to take part in a discussion, but the majority have not even chosen to discuss whether the children should have rights. Every day in Norwegian jobs there are hundreds and thousands of young children's parents who tell their employer that unfortunately, the meeting is not finished, but I have to go, because I have to pick up the nursery. The employer accepts it because he knows the nursery is closing. Through these regulations, we actually give negotiating cards to our young children’s parents in contact with their employer. If the kindergarten doesn't close in the afternoon and it's open anymore, you lose that negotiation card. In fact, it is important to have maximum time to ensure that parents also have their freedom of choice and cannot be exploited by employers who do not understand the needs of families with children. The Children’s Ombudsman supports the thinking of the Christian People’s Party’s proposals. Here's the Children's Ombudsman and the Christian People's Party against smoking. The case again shows that children in Norway need a Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1163	The representative of Øyvind Hope has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1166	First of all, I would like to thank the representative, Håbreck, for giving tribute to the Left. I heard a bit of the debate in the office, and then the number of children you had in the nursery was raised. I even have three children in kindergarten, so it's a very important thing that we're discussing now. But I will be very brief, as in this matter I first take the floor to explain the vote of the Left. We will not support any of the proposals in the vote, but we have chosen to promote our own proposal, which is distributed in the Chamber. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to draw up guidelines so that kindergartens wishing to have flexible opening hours are subject to maximum residence conditions for children.’ This has the background to the fact that our bulking program for the current period determines: ‘Left wants more kindergartens with more flexible opening times. At the same time, it is important that public signals that children should not have too long days and spend too much time in kindergarten. Therefore, extended opening times must be combined with maximum periods in kindergartens, both per day. 24 hours and per day. week.’» In other words, the Left is a place between the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party in this matter. So we don't want to limit the number of kindergartens that have flexible opening hours, or set a concrete measurement for maximum time without doing this more thoroughly. With this I address the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1185	The representative Abid Q. Raja has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1189	This proposal assumes that there should be a big problem that there are many children who are more than 47.5 hours per week in kindergarten, but there is no coverage to say that it is the reality of the day. We have recently had a child care study that shows that about 85 pst. Of the children, the right to a full-time job — parents pay for a full-time job — is therefore a 41-hour or more weekly stay. But it's at the base of 20 pst. which uses the entire amount of space for which they pay. It's at the base of 20 pst. of children who are in kindergarten 41 hours or more. Then we don't have differentiated numbers that show how many are the entire length of stay out, but there will be a very small minority of today's kindergarten children, and probably there's a good reason in each of those cases. So this proposal is a proposal to regulate a problem that is very small. When you first did that, I have to say that I'm very surprised that the Christian People's Party will add a standard of 47.5 hours. I think that it could very quickly lead to the opposite of what is the intention of the proposers, and that many would think that it is a recommended term of residence on the part of Stortinget, if you set such a kind of limit. So that's the opposite of what most grandchildren today are trying to do, to find a good balance between the time in kindergarten and the time you're with your children. The large majority of kindergarten children, approx. 70 pst., stays in kindergarten between 25 and 40 hours, and the average residence time per week is 35 hours. We also know that there is some flexibility in opening hours, but not many kindergartens in Norway have a high degree of flexibility here. That's like 60 pst. by Norwegian kindergartens have an opening time of between nine and ten hours per day, 28 pst. has between 10 and 11 hours per day, and 1 pst. the kindergartens have an opening time of more than eleven hours per day. I do not believe that the proposers will believe that since we now have full childcare coverage and there may be competition between kindergartens – various private kindergartens and public kindergartens – to attract parents, it would be an essential competitive advantage for parents that the children can be in kindergarten as far as possible. There is nothing of what we know about the use of kindergartens by parents today, which suggests that it is something they will primarily ask for. On the contrary, I am convinced that the parent will primarily ask for the quality and content of the nursery services they receive. And reality has become completely different. A few years ago, it was such that many stuttered up their sweet little ones and went from kindergarten to kindergarten to see if there was anyone who would have exactly their little island, and you hoped in the longest time to get one of the few places that were vacant. Today, the pediatric director is interviewed about the nature of the offer and the educational principles used. That's good. I think that the discussion on the future will focus primarily on the content and quality of the nursery. Then I am also quite surprised at the approach angle of the proposers; they compare a stay in the kindergarten with a working time for adults. We do not regard the nursery as a place of storage or something comparable to child labour. We look at the kindergarten as a good educational offer, which we must strive for all the time to get better. It is very strange to compare the guidelines you have in your working life, and the length of your stay in kindergarten. I think there would have been a very strange problem, which the proposers could not have thought through, if one were actually to adopt a residence time of 47.5 hours a week as the maximum time per day. For some of the few cases where this may be the case, for example: be if you have suddenly become lonely, where for a period you have to jump off to get the reality to hang out while trying to figure out how to live and work to be alone with a child. What, then, is the Christian People's Party doing? Is the kid sending out? The options of a lone parent in such a situation would probably be far more demanding and uncertain for the child concerned than being half an hour or two longer in the kindergarten for a limited period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1206	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1209	The situation today is that there is an opportunity to have flexible opening hours in kindergartens, but there are very few, as the Council of State also pointed out, who use that opportunity. The reason why very few kindergartens use this option is that the framework conditions do not facilitate it. My question to the Council of State becomes simple: Will the Council of State, on which the proposal for the Progress Party is being put, stimulate the increased use of kindergartens with flexible opening hours and ensure that there is a better framework for these kindergartens?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1216	This is a problem which has to a very small extent been raised with me by some of the people who offer nursery facilities today. I know that with regard to the offer that was in connection with Gardermoen, where there was more flexibility around the opening hours, it was mainly that there were not many who were asking for the offer, which made them think anew about it, and not lack of support schemes. If those issues come up, I'll be open to discuss it. But I think that even if the discussion comes up about how to, for example. should be able to take turns and be in charge of children while having a good childcare or work in different shift arrangements, very many parents will nevertheless endeavour to ensure that the time when the children are in kindergarten is the time when most other children are in that nursery, because there are common arrangements there. That's where games and contacts will be. So although there may be a need for some degree of flexibility in relation to some jobs, I don't believe that this is going to be a big issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1223	I'm surprised that the Council of State on the Chair is having problems with what kind of consequences this is getting for lonely caregivers, since she, with her broad pen, has attached to NTB that 47.5 hours is far too long for a young person to be in kindergarten. So there's no connection between the council's message. However, my question is that the Council of State clearly believes that comparison with the working environment and work environment law is not relevant. Now I think that many of the employees in kindergartens will tell you that the kids are also tired at the end of a long day after kindergarten. But what I'm surprised about is that the Council of States uses averages as an argument against giving kids rights. My question is this: In the ongoing debate on the Working Environment Act, does the Council of State consider that averages for how employees manage their relationships with employers are relevant arguments for facilitating and amending and removing the Working Environment Act, or is it actually a right to protect the few?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1228	I absolutely do not believe that it is relevant to change the provisions we have in today's work environment law. But I think it's a little strange that the Christian People's Party sees it as going to work for a child to go to kindergarten, because we're trying to make the contents of the nursery something other than child labour – although children of course get tired of being in kindergarten for many hours, often in intense play. But when you look at how grandchildren use the possibilities they have to stay in kindergarten, almost everyone agrees with me: 47.5 hours is too long to be in kindergarten. They do what they can to cut down on that time to find the balance sheet, and they find it on average for 35 hours a week. What becomes the problem of the representative, Håbreuk, is that if there is then a lonely supporter who is suddenly abandoned, is alone with two kids and has a full-day job, has to pick up and bring and arrange things alone, it can be thought for a period of time that she will strive to last 47.5 hours a week. What would the representative hope to say to her?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1235	There are some parents who also experience that when you try one day to pick up earlier in the kindergarten, you don't get the kids home, because they think it's much more polite to be in the kindergarten. So that's also one side of the case. But what the Christian People's Party wants with this proposal is to focus on that many are there for too long. We agree. Then I would like to challenge the Council of State: What do you think about the work the kindergartens are doing when it comes to perhaps giving children more opportunities to rest because the children get tired? It's intense, active play and learning, right? And in the small children's wards they have their mattresses and get to sleep in the carriage and rest. But also in the grandchild wards, I think it is important that kindergartens help children get some time alone and time to relax and take it easy. Has the Council of State thought about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1242	I guess I have the same experience as the representative here in that if you were to suddenly enjoy your child by coming early and picking up, and really thought you had a nice early afternoon in front of you, you're not as desirable as you would expect to be yourself. I have confidence that kindergartens organize kindergartens well, and it is absolutely right that being seven-eight hours in intense play in large children's groups is tiring. It's tiring for everyone. Therefore, very many kindergartens strive to have quiet hooks – opportunities for children to withdraw. Children are different, and they have different needs. It is an absolute goal for a well-run kindergarten that there should be opportunities just to vary and withdraw if you need a little more peace and quiet.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1249	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1254	Good arrangements are necessary to combine participation in employment with good and stable childcare. Increasingly better leave arrangements for young children’s parents, cash support, increasing number of kindergartens, good health pay schemes, etc. are important measures, and that is good. However, there are many families with children who know that they get too little time together, not least in the small children’s phase. The Christian People's Party therefore wants to further develop and target existing schemes and propose new instruments to help provide a better framework for the first years of life of the child. That's the intention. Better leave arrangements for young children’s parents and a stronger cash support scheme are two important objectives: good-quality childcare facilities for everyone who wants to do so, another. In several areas, there has been a long-standing need for labour to adapt to family life. It has, among other things, improved access arrangements for young children’s parents. It's a desired development, and we have to be careful not to reverse this development. I share the concerns of the proposers that developments should become so that family life needs to adapt more to work and not vice versa. The Christian People's Party is concerned that kindergartens with long opening hours should not become a system that leads to increased pressure in longer working days. The opening time in kindergarten or agreed length of stay has been limited by too many to allow for the length of time for young children’s parents to be at work. A 24-hour childcare facility without a maximum stay period for the children may cause parents to be weaker than an employer who wants to be longer on the job. Longer opening hours may lead to longer children in kindergarten, and longer opening hours may lead to increased pressures in longer working days for parents. The Christian People's Party is moving towards a notion that children should be longer in kindergarten in order to fix the time squeeze. If young children’s parents do not have the opportunity to pick up their child after 9.5 hours in kindergarten, it is the labour market that needs to adapt to the needs of children and families, and not the other way around. We know that some children have too long days in kindergarten, and I think it is time we discussed whether there should be a limit, whether there should be a maximum period – a regulation that protects the child, which takes into account the need that the child has, not the need that the working life has for parents' labour.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1267	This proposal concerns the rights of children. It's about taking the perspective: what's best for the child? For just that's the most important thing. It's a good guide always to ask yourself this question about what's best for the kids in a society. This proposal is about working life not managing the child's everyday life: the demands and expectations of working life should not be what determines the family's life. The Christian People's Party believes there is reason to warn against this thinking, such as. characterises the comments of the Progress Party in the setting. That's where they say: ‘These members assume that shift and rotation workers shall have the right to receive services from the public through their tax contributions, in line with other employees.’ It is this thinking that is also reflected in the Joint Undertaking's principal programme, which says that the opening hours of kindergarten should be adapted to the needs of the workforce. What is interesting is that the Joint Society also writes in its magazine: ‘We need to debate the relationship between work and leisure.’ They further suggest that at their national meeting in October this will be a debate. We think that is positive. We need the debate. The Christian People's Party believes that kindergarten should meet the needs of the child and the family, not the needs of the workplace. There's a big and important difference here. It is this thinking that everything should be adapted to the needs of the labour market that the Christian People's Party warns against. It is precisely this perspective that puts such pressure on families and on children's everyday lives. And it's also this that creates the need for limitations on opening hours and stays in kindergartens. The Christian People's Party believes that we need regulation, as a safeguard, a protection for the children – and for the families. And I'm a little disappointed that all the parties, with the exception of the Left, who have made a constructive proposal, have immediately melted the door again. This is not a debate that only the Christian People's Party needs to take. In the joint journal, as I mentioned, say, among other things. the Children’s Ombudsman, Reidar Hjermann, in an opinion: ‘Daily open kindergartens are not available for children, but for the interests of adults. Such an offer leads employers to eat even more of the family time together.» Finally. I agree with the Council of State that kindergarten is a pedagogical offer. We all agree on that. But it is also limited how much pedagogy, and how to control a kindergarten at night. I think that debate is a good one, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1294	Normally, I sit on the labour and social committee and rule mostly with the work environment law, not kindergarten time. But that's why I had noticed this debate as an interesting debate to follow, and I decided that if it was said enough interesting, I would also make some comments. My starting point is that I work with the Working Environment Act. And in that context, I have to say that the government parties often have a slightly different argument than what I have heard in this case. My starting point when I think about a good society is to make the family work. It's also when I'm talking about the working environment. Families are different, families have different needs, and they need freedom of choice. They need a good and safe kindergarten with flexible opening hours, and they need a good cash support, preferably even better than today. But freedom of choice also requires that you have some rights, that you have the opportunity to work, but that you also have the opportunity to limit yourself if necessary, or that you have someone to protect you because you are so dependent on the job that you need to work longer. That is why we have a work environment law that is good, which needs modernisation and improvement all the time, but which is good, and which protects employees. This also means that it protects employees and provides them with cards when they face a situation that will be difficult. There are many who have mentioned the single care provider. I think the only caregivers will be allowed to have the card by hand in negotiations with the employer that they have a young person to be picked up in the nursery, and that they will therefore be allowed to go home. Therefore, that worker might rather have a slightly different working hours than evening shifts, or night shifts. Because I must say that I am very surprised that the socialist parties are so eager for a 24-hour kindergarten. When I sit and follow the Working Environment Act, I also read a little from the trade union, and they went through how it works in Sweden. In Sweden, they have day-to-day kindergartens, and there are stories about adults who are at work for eight hours, who need to sleep out a few hours later, and it'll be quick to make you 14–16 hours away from your kids. It is not that easy to make the day-to-day kindergartens go up. So the council says this is a very small problem. I understand that this is about approx. 19 pst., then it's not a little problem. Should we ignore the Working Environment Act just for them? In Sweden, half of the municipalities have day-old kindergartens. I think quite simply that the Christian People's Party is a bit ahead of what's going to be an even bigger debate, but it's not so unusual that the Christian People's Party is a little ahead of it. What also becomes a paradox is that the Council of State says it should be a good educational offer. I can't quite see that a 24-hour nursery should have so much educational offer in the middle of the night. I am disappointed that one is not willing to go further into the debate, because, as the Magasin, the peer-reviewed journal of the Joint Alliance, says, «Run debate!» It is an important debate to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1311	After listening to this debate, it is important to stress that the Christian People's Party has confidence in its parents. We have confidence that parents do what they can to be with their kids. Every parent will do what's best for his child. But in the face of society's framework and assumptions, it's not always as easy to choose what we see primarily as the best solution for our child every single day. As parents, I think we've all known this cross-breed of expectations from several teams, which sometimes unfortunately we go on chords with our own desires and needs for ourselves and for our children. It's just in this, in relation to being allowed to do what we think is right for our children, we think it is necessary that the authorities provide guidance for the opening hours of kindergartens and the maximum residence time in the kindergartens. Through the regulations we have now promoted, we want to support parents and give them the opportunity to limit their own working hours and, where appropriate, evening and night work. The aim of this proposal is to facilitate and provide a good framework for young children’s parents to meet the demands of the employer and society in general. I have noticed that this is the argument the Children's Ombudsman uses when he is busy warning against day-to-day kindergartens. He believes that such an offer will mean that employers will eat even more of the family's time. He believes that employers must be involved in facilitating the situation for workers with small children. This means that working life needs to adapt to family life instead of adapting family life and kindergarten hours to work life. When the Children’s Ombudsman has warned against day-to-day kindergartens and is in favour of laws that regulate residence time in the nursery, he has also argued that no child has the benefit of being in kindergarten at all times of the day, and that no child has the benefit of being in kindergarten for too long. I think most of us agree on this. But then we disagree on how such regulation is to be put into practice. The Christian People's Party believes it will be important that the Storting signal that we want to secure children's rights. I'm a kindergarten kid. I think I'm a good adult. My children are kindergarten children. I think they'll be some good adults. But to the representative Knutson Barstad: It is NSB’s delays that have made me pay fines to the kindergarten, because the NSB is late, and because I have commuted 40 km every day between kindergarten and work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1326	The Christian People's Party believes that what's good for the kids is good for society. Good kindergarten offers are good for a lot of kids, and I myself enjoy following a young person to a good kindergarten every day. I took the floor because the council gave me a challenge in its reply to me in the lines: what would you say to a parent who has become lonely, and who is struggling to get the cabal to go up with the 47.5 hours? Now I'm not the Minister of Knowledge. I'd like to be. But now the knowledge minister chose to ask me that question. In fact, many of the kindergartens that the Minister of Knowledge is responsible for actually close after 47.5 hours, including my own here in Oslo. So those kindergartens are offering an offer that creates the situation for the lonely caregivers today. The Minister of Knowledge must answer that question – how she may defend it as it is today. I am also amazed that both the Minister of Knowledge, a red-green majority and the majority will deprive the lone carers of the negotiating cards they actually have today relating to both the opening time and possible maximum time, if adopted, to their employers, where employment should actually jeopardize young people, so that the growth of young people is given priority. When the interests of young people conflict with the interests of adults, the children shall have the right to drive. The Christian People's Party then feels that adults should be obliged to do so. I would also say, no, it's not like the Council of State says, that the Christian People's Party sees being in kindergarten as a job. However, we do believe that it is a relevant parallel that we have developed a work environment law – not because most employers are some bullies who abuse their employees. No, for the vast majority of employees and employers will be able to find very good, sensible agreements that make it attractive to be at work and that make everyday life work. But in fact, we have the Working Environment Act to protect the few who could have been exploited. I am amazed that the left-hand side is unable to see such simple points related to how we organize ourselves against working life in everyday life. I think the argument is sylt thin. I am reasonably sure that in a few years' time we will look back on this debate and smile on the arguments that were then put forward, and consider the rights of young people also in kindergarten as a matter of course. I look forward to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1339	It's been an interesting debate. I believe almost all of the Christian People's Party's big group has been up and coming up with their views. I believe that the proposal of the Christian People's Party is honest, and that there are good intentions behind it. But we disagree whether this is the right way to avoid having too long periods of residence for children in kindergartens. I think the parents and employees in kindergarten are the closest ones to seeing the children's needs, and we know that it's going to work out in most of the cases where there are challenges. I have even talked to many people who work in the kindergarten sector who have brought things up with their parents when they think that it develops into going a little too far. There have been several trusts here today about how it is with your own children in kindergarten. For me, it's so that we have full space in kindergarten. Our daughter started at 5 p.m. 11.00 in the kindergarten today, and then she demanded to be one of the last to be picked up – she would not be among the first to be picked up. So there are several people here who feel that the children are very well-being in kindergarten, and I think it is good for Norwegian parents to know that there is both such good competence among those who work there, and that there are opportunities to have flexibility between working life and a good kindergarten offer and being a parent. So it's been a touching commitment to the Working Environment Act. After all, there was almost a work environment debate more than a child-care debate. It seems to me that social democrats are beautiful to listen to, and it must mean that the Christian People's Party has first admitted that their own attacks on the Working Environment Act were wrong, and that now perhaps there has been a guarantee that further attacks on the Working Environment Act by the Christian People's Party will not come. If there is an honest commitment to the Working Environment Act by the Christian People's Party, perhaps the best thing they can do for Norwegian workers and Norwegian young children's parents is to reject the Progress Party, and also the Right, to constantly try to weaken the Working Environment Act and create a so-called more flexible working life, where each employee is standing up to the employer to negotiate how to organise the working day and pay. This would indeed be an attack on family policy and on Norwegian parents of young children. Then join us in the fight to protect the work environment law. We're very much in favour of that. So I hope that this debate will begin to approach the end, but that we will move on both in terms of improving the quality of kindergartens and ensuring that the children who go to Norwegian kindergartens get a good offer – whether it's within a flexible kindergarten, or whether it's for more structured time. I think the commitment of the Christian People's Party is commendable, because we need a debate on what is best for Norwegian kindergarten children. That's where we're going to agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1354	I will try not to be too polemic in the end, so that the committee, which has longed for the debate to be rounded up, can do so. I just want to express the following dilemma: when we look at how small children's parents use kindergarten, we focus on the fact that kindergarten days should not be too long, and that there should be a good balance between the time the children have in kindergarten, and the time the parents are with them. That's what the whole Stortinge agrees on. The problem is when you start trying to regulate it. In this case, you have to decide the number of hours you think should be a maximum time. 47.5 hours max time in kindergarten is very long. It's under 20 pst. Which uses the kindergarten more than 41 hours, and we don't know if there's anyone, or how few there are, who spends it for more than 47.5 hours. Ergo comes in the situation that a good one can set a time or a number of hours that can be experienced as a recommendation and not as the opposite, if you are occupied with that balance sheet. So you also have to think about what kind of special situations you can get into if you want to regulate this. That's exactly what the representative, Håbreek, says, 60 pst. in kindergartens with an opening time of between nine and ten hours, there is no current problem, because the few can actually be more than 47.5 hours in kindergarten within the opening time of the day. But there are a few, and then you will also find yourself in situations where there are some single examples of a crisis in a family, where you may need to stay longer than 47.5 hours in the kindergarten for a week or two or three. It has been forbidden by the Christian People's Party, and then you have to answer: what do you do in such cases? It is fully possible to address a discussion about the balance in kindergarten time for families, but there are not all intentions it is easy to regulate in a sensible way for families with young children. Then the proposers want to ban evening and night open kindergartens. We have that to a very small extent in Norway. Where there is some discussion, it is associated with very special workplaces. I can't see that it's a current issue to go in with as bombastic instruments as it is. I think that the examples we can get up to in terms of greater flexibility in opening hours in kindergartens will be that we have to try to balance children's rights with their parents' rights and, of course, keep up if it's that way that greedy employers rob them of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1367	Eye Wind Hope has had the word twice and gets the word to a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1370	I really think there were many interesting nuances and reflections in the last articles of the Council of State. Now we have also described in the proposal that there may actually be examples where exemptions from that type of provision are required. Had the government parties wanted to decide that the government would have a review of those things and come back with it, we should have gladly stepped back and agreed to such a decision to run such a process. But I must also say that I think it is a bit clever that the link to the work environment law is rejected so easily. Being in kindergarten is not being at work, but it's actually the way adults are able to stand up, talk their own case and fight for their interests. The kids can't do that, and you should think of it as weighing the other way in relation to a parallel in the Working Environment Act. I am pleased that the case rapporteur sees the intentions and has put more commitment into the debate than he has done in the one section he wrote in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1379	I read the following about the Swedish night open kindergartens: ‘The time at which you have the evening rest has fallen in the nursery. The lego and the paints are packed together. Lisa and Ella eat some fruit while they get the last episode of the Svaleskär series on the TV. Then it's time for toothpaste and good night's story. They've put their clothes on. It's only a few hours before Mom and Dad come from the evening shift." That is the reality. I won't say anything about it. In Sweden, however, children up to 13 years of age spend the night in kindergartens when their parents are at work. Neither can it be said to be a pedagogical offer, I believe that 13-year-olds spend the night in kindergartens. The council says that we don't have any problems, and that it's not very used, and that's why we don't do anything. That's exactly why the Christian People's Party is addressing this matter today. We want to be in front of a debate on a system that has come to our neighbouring country, and which we in many ways seem to have gone a little too far. Many have said that they understand the intention of the Christian People's Party's proposals, that we really want the best. Yes, we will always do that for our children. But I think it's a little strange that so to say all the parties, and the council also, only the obscurity rejects everything. You kind of don't want to go in and see that this might be a problem, yeah, maybe there's a problem already somewhere. I think that's funny.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1398	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4142]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1414	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1423	This case concerns in many ways one of the measures mentioned in the major non-response debate in the Norwegian educational cycle. It is true that one in three of those starting at the age of 13 falls from, either in the transition from youth to further education or during the course of further education. In my view, this proposal deals with one concrete measure that could have contributed to making it easier for the transition between youth schools and further education and between the academic years of further education, the ability to resume exams within the academic year and then follow a regular course of study in the same way as the student school you are already part of. The Committee has, as a matter of course, also shared its views on this matter. The majority still think that this is complicated to get purely practical, while the minority in the committee think this must be possible to resolve if one actually adds the goodwill. The proposal which deals with the extent to which, for example: shall be able to take an additional examination if a non-consisting examination in English and Norwegian is a natural step forward beyond what we have seen in many counties, where one has local exams. It has one, for example. in Eastfold, in Rogaland, in Hedmark, in East Agder and in Buskerud. The experience from Østfold in 2009 clearly shows that of those who are given the opportunity to resume an examination in a subject in which they were enrolled, within the normal study period, it is 80 pst. of the student mass that manages to pass after intensive training in the summer months. This in turn means that they are able to complete their studies in the ordinary course of study. That is what this matter is all about. This makes me find it strange that the government is quite clear – from the department's side at least – to reject the whole problem that it is practically difficult to implement. So the county gets it done. The county gets it into the fields for which they are responsible. So in those subjects where one has centrally given the exam, it's much worse. And then, in any case, the minority in the Committee is aware that there will be no state leadership to prevent this from being implemented locally. In addition to that, the minority believes, otherwise it would be lacking, that the department is fully capable of finding practical arrangements for this type of examination scheme which make it practicable to carry out. I often have the impression that the Council of State is busy preventing non-response in the educational process. It is strange, then, that in this matter, the Council of State and the Government Party have no choice but to rely on the bureaucracy's assessments of how difficult things should be to achieve, rather than holding on to the line to limit the disqualification in the education cycle. That's what this is all about, in my opinion. And this is the case now: if an actual search for practical solutions to help more people to pass exams within the ordinary year of study through, for example: Summer studies and an additional exam before the start of a new school year, if practical arrangements were to be found, would help to — it shows Eastfold figures — that more people got through the course of education. Unfortunately, then, it is always time to focus on the system and the difficulties of the system change, rather than actually worrying most about those students who today fall out of further training. There is the difference, as the case-speaker sees it, between the minority and the majority in this case. So I'm going to be clear that the majority also point out that there are possibilities within today's operating room, and that it's not the central guidelines that prevent the exam from being conducted in this way. Then I ask myself, if that is the case, why does the majority not want to do more to help fewer of our students fall out of the education cycle?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1442	First, I want to say that there has been an error in the first remark from the majority in the vote. The second last sentence of the note shall read as follows: As the majority sees it, students may also take part in the regular harvest examination in November/December, which is for students with a rated 1 position, etc. And then we're right. The Christian People's Party proposes to hold an extra exam in the Norwegian and English subjects to prevent removal and ensure that more people are able to study. The entire committee agrees that the dropout in secondary education is too high, and we know that the government has launched a number of projects to prevent this, including: through the New GIV Partnership. There is broad consensus in the Committee – naturally – that as far as possible, training should be completed at the standard time, and that, for example, the training should be completed at the highest possible level. summer or intensive training can help students achieve this goal. The proposal of the Christian People's Party is concrete, and implies that the government will introduce additional national examinations in two selected subjects. There are no key leads or other legal provisions that prevent the implementation of e.g.: an examination in English at the end of the summer holiday. The barriers are mainly practical – e.g.: design of the examination tasks and time to conduct censorship during the summer. However, even if an additional examination is carried out at the end of the summer holiday, it will not be practicable to obtain the results before September/October. Then students can also participate in the regular harvest exam, which is for students who have passed the exam or have been sick. These students have the right to go up to the first consecutive exam in the subject. For students who graduate in a course in the spring semester of grade 3 Vg3, the opportunities to enter higher education in the same autumn will be shattered, regardless of whether or not the possibility of taking up the subject during the summer holiday is there, since admission to higher education takes place during the summer – and most often in June. The English common course is an examination that students take either after Vg1 or Vg2 and these students may continue their secondary education for a while, and may resume this examination on the next ordinary examination. We know that the students can complete their exams in English at Vg1 or Vg2. If they have crossed in English, for example: the school owner facilitates the summer school and the harvest exam. I have problems to see why one should facilitate this offer only in the Norwegian and English subjects. If you do the exam in Norwegian and English, it's hard to defend why you don't do it in other subjects. If you offer exams in many other subjects, the scheme will be expensive and time consuming. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left write in the comments that states that have passed the exam locally have good results by offering extra exams. But it will always be up to the school owner to decide the organisation, conduct and censorship of locally given exams. The challenge is to design new exam assignments and carry out censorship during the summer holidays.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1463	Absence in secondary education is probably one of the most frequent words in the Stortinge during this majority period. And to make sure that the students can complete, we can almost not do well enough. Last summer I visited a summer school in secondary school at home in Harstad. There were students who had missed the goal during the regular math and chemistry exams, and the students had the opportunity to get up to the exams through a two-week refresher course. That exam was held immediately after this summer course. And I think that's a little bit of a point. To offer students a summer course, then to offer them to wait for two to three months before going to the exam, I think is actually a bad deal. Once they have motivated themselves and taken this course, it is quite important that they also have an opportunity to put a dot. This may also be students who are not all going on in school. Some of them might have to learn and be in business. And it is certainly not certain that their everyday life is so arranged that they manage to keep up with that subject until they go to the exam. I am very united with the case rapporteur, who focused on the fact that you were very systemically absorbed, and how difficult everything should be. But I believe in truth that we can't go far enough in making arrangements for students who, for some reason, have either gotten a very bad character and want to improve it, or have been hurt to iron out because they didn't have enough knowledge to pass the exam. Within the New GIV, there are, of course, funds available for many measures. Then I think that summer school and exam are a measure you should try out on a larger scale than what is being done today. So let's say here that this is something the county authorities can do for themselves. I want to say that it is not very good use of resources for 19 county municipalities to sit and invent the wheel, when this is something central authorities could actually coordinate, and in this way easily arranged for exams to be carried out in the back of summer schools. The experiences of summer schools, and in Troms, to all intents and purposes, this spring Easter school has tried for students who felt that they might be a bit thin and would be perfected in their way up to exams, shows that there is a lot of work out to pick up and give the students new opportunities. What was also quite incredible in the meeting with the 15-20 students last summer was that they admitted happily that the spring had gone to the deaf and the aunt, and they hadn't gotten together for hours. But now they kind of had the motivation and were ready to really kick in to get the necessary knowledge to go up and feel prepared to take the exam. So I don't think referring to a harvest exam in November/December when students go to summer school in July/August is a good response from the majority. So I appeal again to the Council of State to take this further into account in the work of the New GIV, learn from the experience so far gained with summer schools in a good number of county municipalities, look at where you've got exam arrangements, and how this can be passed on to more subjects. Then I agree with the representative Anna Ljunggren that: Why should it just be the two subjects? I think we should stretch far. I think that as far as possible, we should facilitate that several of the students can complete their exams in the fields they should have actually completed, and before they start a new harvest, before they start doing new tasks, in order to avoid having the burden lying on the top of the subjects they have the semester they will start on. Then I will take up the proposal in the vote, because I think the case-rapporteur was injured to forget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1482	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1485	Reducing high school drop-out is one of our greatest societal challenges. We never reach the zero vision, but we have to figure out that we're going to be as close as possible. For the Center Party starts the fight against non-response early, yes, before the children start the first day of school. Children have different starting points, and we have a school system that reproduces too much social differences. As seen, the distribution message that the government is about to present is also important in the fight against non-response. The centre party has long expressed concern about the theory we have seen in Norwegian school. The grips that have been taken, among others. The report, with more freedom of choice and more practical orientation, is an important step on the way to more motivated students completing secondary education. It's about making demands, seeing the individual and experiencing mastering. And it's not least about follow-up. The follow-up project in the New GIV initiative is correct and important, but it is also an expression that we are unable to adapt the training and follow-up students well enough earlier in the educational cycle, especially in the case of basic skills. Nevertheless, the project is likely to be an important difference for the students involved, and it will be exciting to see the results of the transition project as we follow these students from the autumn into higher education. If we succeed with New GIV and increase throughflows in higher education, this will later remain as the welfare reform all served and even the Ministry of Finance applauded. The exam is the final milestone on the way to higher education or out in teaching. We have to do what we can to get the exam done. As the proposers refer to, a share in the Norwegian or English subjects is deleted. The proposers propose to conduct additional examinations in these subjects to ensure that more completes. The centre party shares the objective, but as referred to in the letter of reply from the Council of State and in the vote, there is no formal obstacle to such a proposal, but there are major practical challenges. Students who wanted to resume Norwegian preparatory studies would not be able to pass a diploma until after admission to higher education has been completed. These students will be able to resume the exam after the semester. As referred to in the proposal, many county councils organise some new local exams shortly after censorship has fallen. This is positive and a practice we must encourage and strengthen. This is likely to improve non-response statistics. So the goal is good, but the proposal is practically difficult to implement, and resources can be used on other and at least equally accurate measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1500	It's sometimes, when I listen to the Center Party, I wish they occupied all the Council chairs – but enough about it. About one and a half of those entering higher education have not attained study or professional competence in five years. These are divided into two groups: those who have finished en route and those who have completed without passing all subjects. In the spring of 2010, 14 pst were extinguished. by the students who had the examination in Norwegian language, 8 pst. in Norwegian and 11 pst. in English for vocational training programmes. These students must either complete their education or take a new examination before obtaining proof of completion of secondary education. Although secondary education is not mandatory, for most, this competence is necessary in a working life that places ever-increasing demands on competence and effectiveness. NIFU STEP’s report 13/2008 examined implementation, selection and attainment of competence in higher education among young people in the East. The study shows that about 2/3 of those who had not completed and passed higher education five years after leaving primary school had completed without passing. Half of these were registered in one or more subjects – a total of 10 pst. of the total litter. Most of these have probably not wanted to finish their schooling, but fail to pass the position or exam in all subjects. Of these, it's well over half that's crossed in only one subject. A passing degree in the subject or subjects in which they have crossed will give the students a diploma. In order to give this group a simple opportunity to get a full diploma, many county municipalities have started with summer schools. The county councils have the opportunity to organise local exams, but it is limited to the subjects where the examination is given locally. In subjects where the exam is given centrally at the same date for the whole country, students have to wait for the regular exam before Christmas, which naturally both limits their motivation for spending vacations in summer school and reduces the impact of such a summer school. Among the subjects given are Norwegian and English. The reason why we're pointing specifically at these two subjects is because you're just deleting one or both of these subjects. A NIFU STEP report shows that over 20 pst. by those who have removed VK II from general vocational training, had deleted only in Norwegian. In addition, over 20 pst. deleted in Norwegian and/or English and at least another subject. So almost half of the people who have crossed out, it's possible for the states to give an offer for an extra exam. Therefore, the Christian People's Party believes that the states should have the opportunity to offer this kind of course. If there are formal or practical obstacles, it means that some action is needed to make this a reality. There is a need for a certain student base to be able to arrange and censor exams in these subjects in a good way. However, when so many county municipalities already organise summer schools, it means that many will seize the opportunity to organise exams in these subjects and that the student base will then be sufficient. The majority argue in this case that such a scheme will prevent entry into higher education, because of the time when censorship and passing examinations. But this group does not have access to higher education in the coming autumn anyway. The question is whether we should give it at a time they're motivated, or whether we should wait until they're in the process of an apprenticeship or other thing that means they don't have the opportunity to spend the same amount of time concentrating on exams. It must be better to take the exam while you still have the drug well inside. The question I think we should have asked is: Can't they just as well be allowed to go to the exam right away, when they're motivated? It must be much better that they're left with an exam than some people choose to do today, that they drop the entire exam. The alternative is not the harvest exam, it's dropping the exam. I want a government that is willing to put obstacles aside, which is willing to set up practical arrangements that will make you get good results, which is willing to see that we have to do what we can to get people to complete high school. The states are clear, and the question is whether the government is ready to help them with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1519	When I sit and listen to this debate, I really think there are better arguments put forward than the proposal itself argues for. To the argument that someone who has crossed into one or two subjects wants to go on and study, for example. from the same harvest, it is not possible to obtain it. Whether or not to arrange a new exam in August, the recording is already done. But what I think are good arguments, is motivation. At what point, if any, are you motivated to try to be in a job that you have crossed? Is it easier to get through a summer course offer when the defeat has recently appeared, or is it more motivated when you arrive in November/December? I think there might be arguments, which have been argued by several, because it's easier to get motivated at the moment you're on your way out of high school. I'll tip, if I'm going to evaluate this a little bit of high school thinking now, that in the case of students who want to take a letter, like, for example. have been deleted in English after Vg2 it is not as difficult to record it while you are an apprentice, because it is two years before the letter is due to be completed. But I'll tip it off that for those who are studying preparatory, who have crossed into a subject or two, the motivation to resume that exam immediately after you have finished and after a summer course may be larger. The counter-representation I have against doing it to a large extent – in addition to being resource-intensive and practical – is that it is clear that during a summer course of a week or two, you can be in a student machine that makes you not toss and get a character and can go on. But we don't want to encourage that kind of shipper roof and such swinging door knowledge. So I mean that the main emphasis in order to get more people to go to higher education, we have to go ahead. It's absolutely right that this doesn't start in high school or high school. The basis for the motivation starts in the nursery. Motivation and ability to evolve know we have a lot of meaning throughout the course. As we have thought about the New GIV measures so far, for example, it is. focussed on addressing students at the 10th stage of Christmas and ensuring that those with the greatest professional challenges of accounting, writing and reading are given help before they begin high school. The main focus of the measures in relation to New GIV should be there. I am absolutely sure that the intention of the proposers with the proposal is not that it should not do anything for too many students to cancel for the final exam, after three years of advanced training, but be a small safety valve for those who have crossed a course. In this case, we have to be able to go through that balance, so that you can't – let's say – multiply the rush time by two and then expect you to jump on a course during the summer and still be able to swing through. It undermines a lot of motivation in a year. A counter-representation is that although Norwegian and English are a challenge, it is very difficult to justify that, for example. it shall not be possible to resume mathematics, which is also a subject in which many people speak, or other foreign languages. So the reason for limiting this to some subjects, I think, is also small. But after the debate, I think that the arguments that are based on motivation, motivation to actually be able to complete and get a diploma deserve a second round of discussion, where we consider: How big are the practical counter-conceptions about how this can be done? What is the size of the counter-representation in terms of infection effect in terms of response — earlier, or throughout the second cycle? And: Is this an appropriate way to facilitate? For my main intention with the New GIV is that our main effort should be put in before you get to the third year exam in high school. But let me see another round especially of what's about motivation around finishing his diploma.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1539	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1542	I'm glad that the Council of State used four out of five minutes to argue for the minority proposal. It gives hope that the government in the long run may agree more with the minority than they will with today's vote. But it is still true that when one says that there are inconclusive practical reasons why one sort of stops this now, while one sees all the advantages that the council brilliantly presented in its own contribution, then the question is: Why is it so busy with system thinking rather than actually going in and solving the challenge for these students – as we know there is a great risk of falling out of the education cycle if one does not follow them closer up? Why does the Council of State reject it as clearly as she does in the letter sent to the Committee, when one at the same time today uses four to five minutes to argue for the minority's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1550	I have very rarely felt that you are being criticized for being open and attentive when you hear some arguments in a discussion that might deserve you to think about it one more round. However, my counter-representations on this proposal are that a main reason in the proposal for document 8 is that several students should be able to continue from higher education to study in the same autumn, despite having crossed into a subject or two. We don't get that anyway, because the recording for further studies is done. But the argument that you can be more motivated just after you have crossed a trade more than half a year after, I think you can apply to some. Then there's one counter-argument again, and that's: are we going to make it very easy to relax from Easter to June – that it's not so dangerous if you iron out a subject, or two, or three, because after all there are summer schools and an easy way to get this back on track anyway? We're not supposed to do that because we're earned that the students participate in the education and that they are challenged throughout the school year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1559	I'm going to give honor to the council because she's so attentive. Because I think this has actually been some practical challenges that have led to the fact that you haven't been able to do this. And I think it's very interesting signals that the Council of State will look at the arguments that actually exist and see if it's possible to go one more round. Because there are exams locally in several subjects, so you get this done. The question is, can you solve those given centrally? I can also recommend that the Council of State perhaps sometimes read the document on which the proposal is based, because the main argument there is not that you should be able to start higher education in the same harvest, because that is in any case impracticable. The main argument there is that many of these don't get exams at all and thus do not complete high school, and then the question is, what can we do to get to that. So my question is whether the Council of State is so clear on this that she really wants the opposition to submit this proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1568	I would like to encourage the opposition to submit this proposal, but I have a lot of counter-conceptions despite seeing that there may be good arguments for it. We are e.g. has not benefited from the examination as a result of an intensive summer course of one or two weeks. We've earned the students the setting to go to higher education that there's a continuous learning process over three years. So the question is, what kind of safety valves should you have for those who don't complete? If you put in a system that you should normally be able to do an exam in all your subjects early in August, after you have completed such an intensive training, I think that a lot of things are a little bit more relaxing, that this might be a counter-representation. But it is a proposal that can definitely be discussed one more round.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1577	Although the Council of State is having little difficulty in replying to this, I am pleased that we in the opposition are submitting this proposal. But what I think is very important is that the Council of State takes on board, is that the balance between what should be extraordinary measures and what should be ordinary, is always difficult, but exactly the group we're talking about now, are the ones that have already crossed, and they have had no opportunity to use this safety valve. The question is, can we manage to do some things that will give them a completion of their high school, and not a graduation where it is not passed in the diploma? So I encourage the Council of State to take on board the fact that there should be a balance that means that the best and most feasible school should be in the ordinary, but that this could be a good safety valve when it's gone wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1586	Yes. But I do have so much close contact with so many young people that I know that some people might think of taking a little easier on exams – ordinary exams – if it was only a short time after it was possible to go back up again, with extra assistance intensively. That's how I think we can admit that someone would behave. So the question is, is it worse to offer it than to give them a new chance? And is it that if they don't have that offer, they would still have it? I think that a disadvantage in implementing it on a large scale would be that someone who could well have stretched out a little more, who could well have dampened his rush celebration a little, who could well have hung in a little more over the three years they had, would fall for the temptation to relax a little. But let's see if it's possible to find the reasonable balance, so there's a safety valve you're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1593	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4143]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1611	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1620	The American organization Khan Academy has launched a small educational revolution in the English-speaking world. Their websites are full of tools that make it possible to learn, practice and measure progress. Everything is open, everything is accessible to everyone. They offer more than 2 000 videos on approx. 10 minutes, which mainly takes real science, but also some other subjects. More than 40 million ‘educational hours’ have been completed via the website. Many teachers who have used the website’s resources experience that the website takes care of the teaching, while teachers are given free time to follow up better. The students can see teaching at their level. The teacher role becomes freer and more adapted to the individual student. Today's Business wrote for a time about Roslyn High School in Long Island, New York, which has let the iPad conquer the classroom. They're clear that this has increased quality, but they're also careful that teachers can use the technology. They get the teaching more interactive and engaging, if used correctly. That's also the point, because iPad should not only be a tablet or a tablet, it should be used on the Internet, to watch videos, to find sources and facts, and not least to solve problems that make you develop skills. This, I think, sounds like a little bit of science fiction for most people in Norwegian school today. ICT use has evolved enormously over the past ten to twelve years, and it is a challenge to keep the school up with this development. Therefore, in 2004 the Bondevik II Government presented the Digital Competence Programme 2004–08. This national programme presented, inter alia: clear objectives and plans for the use of ICT in school education. The programme expired in 2008 and has not been renewed since then, despite the fact that there are still considerable differences in the use of ICT in schools and that there are a number of other challenges to ICT use. Proposalers believe that this may be the main objective of a new national strategy for ICT in training. Developments in the ICT field are fast, and Norwegian educational institutions and municipalities have invested considerable amounts in technical infrastructure. A new national strategy would allow the proposers to ensure the most appropriate and pedagogical use of ICT in education. It is also pointed out in the proposal that the Local Governments have developed the ICT and initial training strategy 2008-2012, which outlines challenges and opportunities for school owners, municipalities and county councils with regard to the use of ICT in training. But this does not preclude, according to the proposers, the need for a national strategy, a view shared by the Christian People's Party. The majority and the State Council point out in the case that it is the new ICT centre that is to solve the ICT bet. They show, among other things: to be notified in St.meld. No 31 for 2007-2008 on quality in school, that this centre should be set up. The majority believe that the establishment of the centre and the inclusion of issues related to ICT in mainstreaming documents and in the other plans and programmes of the department meets the need for a new ICT strategy in training addressed by the representative proposal. But in St.meld. No 31 this centre is produced – by the government itself – only as a tool to ensure a better sharing of experience in this area. The follow-up to the Digital Competence Programme will be brought back to the attention of the Government, they indicate in that Communication. The minority today, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, recognizes the role this centre will play in strengthening the use of ICT in training, and will facilitate good solutions to this. However, the minority will emphasise the need for a more general approach to the use of ICT in training today. In the view of the minority, it is not enough to rely on the establishment of a centre for ICT in training. In order to ensure an equivalent training provision, a national overall ICT strategy is required in training. Therefore, I promote the proposal in the document, and hope that the two stories I started with do not sound like science fiction for future school generations in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1637	The representative of Dagrun Eriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1640	I don't think the stories sounded like science fiction, and I sometimes think we tend to get a little paralysed and yell at the big solutions as soon as we talk about ICT or digital solutions. The President himself is an avid user of iPad and phones, so he's very familiar with this. It is good that we get the opportunity to discuss such things also in Stortinget. Clearly, the rapporteurs have addressed the challenges, as we also heard in the statements by the rapporteurs. Action plans may be good, but that's not the only way to solve things in society. It could seem that the proposers had not really got the ICT Centres in education, nor is it mentioned in the proposal, because the role of the new ICT Centre in education performs many of the tasks and challenges outlined by the proposers. I would like to quote from the letter that the Council of State has given in response to the Committee, where she again quotes the letter of award for 2010 and it says: «ICT students are responsible for disseminating high-quality knowledge about ICT and learning. The Centre shall assess new technologies and digital media and analyse their educational potential. It shall disseminate, guide and facilitate knowledge of the use of ICT in education. Information shall be up-to-date, transparent and easily accessible to all. The Centre shall also reach the target audience through information provision and online guidance services. The Centre shall promote the development of ICT in the training of teachers and pre-school teachers. The Centre shall initiate, coordinate and implement national and international projects with key actors and organisations and different professional environments.’;» I have to say that this sounds very good, and it sounds like a very good response to what the rapporteur and the proposers have also requested. It doesn't give me the impression that we need an action plan. It gives the impression that we have a government and a center on the ball that wants to drive the development of ICT in school. We have a lot of such centers. For example, we have the National Centre for Writing Training and Writing Research, and they write for example. of itself: ‘The aim of the Writing Centre is to strengthen the literacy skills of children, young people and adults. The Centre shall have a multidisciplinary character and work on writing as a basic skill in different subjects and at different levels of training.’;» This is not a call for someone to promote a Doc. No Eight proposals for a plan of action for writing training in school. It's an observation that there's a lot of good development work going on even though the Storting has not decided it directly. In this committee, we have a lot of communications from the government to the Grand Duchy, which also means that the government must follow up on what is outlined there, and we, as a magnificence and committee, should follow up and see that this is done, but we do not have to call for action plans at every crossroad. It is also time for the use of ICT to be demystified a little. I don't think most Norwegian schoolchildren think this is science fiction. They use it all the time. Using digital aids is just as common today as writing with pencil — yes, perhaps more common. I think in one week I'll write more text with cell phone than I do with pencil. It is clear that this should also be reflected in school. But I think it's already working very hard. ICT isn't something that solves all the problems, but it's a good tool for a lot of learning. It is also pencil and paper, but as I said, we have no action plan for the use of ballpoint pens and pencils in school. We have big, important and correct goals for our school. The main goal is for all primary school graduates to master basic skills that enable them to participate in higher education and working life. It also means that they need to master digital aids. The majority agree with the Council of State that the establishment of ICT centres in education clearly demonstrates that the Ministry of Knowledge prioritises the challenges of the proposal and that a separate ICT strategy will not provide any additional value beyond the efforts already made. I look at the Centers for ICT in education in many ways as a kind of continuous dynamic, continuous action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1665	The previous talk was that we don't have our own strategies for pencil and paper. No, we don't, but we have quite good strategies and goals – ways to organise your work – which makes you pretty good in Norwegian. It's the same thing in this case. Because once one has established that ICT is one of the five basic skills you should have when you leave school, you are also forced to have the same overarching objectives and strategies to achieve the goals that one has for the other subjects in which we teach. ICT is becoming increasingly important, but at the same time, the future generation is becoming increasingly independent of its influence on this. This does not mean, however, that the school, when one has concluded that ICT is an important basic skill that all elephants should have, is not required to work systematically throughout the country to gain basic competence for all elephants. And that's what this thing is all about. Because even though educational institutions are organizing this work today, it is very different. And it also gives you a very different result. It's a challenge, and it's contrary to the goals that all the elephants should be entitled to basic skills within this field. At the same time, I think it's necessary that we go a little bit further. One thing is to determine what is the objective of the ICT bet in the school. Another thing is to get there that we get proof of the impact this has on the school – that is, what use its students make of using resources on this in the school. I think I'm going to send a recording to the Council of State: to look at opportunities to learn more experiences about what we're left with working actively with ICT betting in the school. How do students benefit from it, and how do the schools work with it. I think we would have had much left of actually measuring the results of that strategy – or the goal of basic skill – in the long term. At the same time, everything hangs together with everything. It's true that a lot of people who are in the base ball today are on a good level, e.g. within data — normal use of data. In many cases, I think that some of the students who are in the basic school today may exceed the level of competence of some teachers in some areas. It's a challenge. It's a challenge, because if that's the case, we're tired of giving all the students what they're actually entitled to. This is also linked to the situation we see when it relates to the continuing training of Norwegian teachers. It's closely related to it. When Norwegian teachers want to continue training – 4000 applicants and 1,500 people – it says that if we are to get these teachers to the level of competence in this sector, it is crucial to see things in the health of their home. Everything is related to everything. This is precisely why I hope that the State Council will be more effective than it is today to strengthen the continuing training of Norwegian teachers. I believe that in this field it is entirely decisive with a teacher's mass – we might well try to say at least parts of him – that grew up at a different time than the Norwegian elephant grew up today. I will end by saying that it is important that this field is also put on the same line with other basic skills in Norwegian school. The debate is not about detailed management at the professional level, but it is about systematic work to get back to the results that Stortinget has decided that one would like to sit with after completing education.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1678	I would like to thank the rapporteur for a good review of the matter. There is little doubt that ICT has become a natural part of everyday life in Norwegian school. But that doesn't mean that this everyday life is trouble-free, because there's still a lot of broken-up land here, and there are still new issues that teachers, school managers and school owners have to deal with. In addition, municipalities and counties have made large investments in ICT, for which it is important to ensure good use in retrospect. On the right, the establishment of a national ICT centre in training is seen as an important milestone in quality assurance of the use of ICT in training. It is most surprising, however, that government parties believe that the Centre should also be involved in the role of political authorities in designing an overall national ICT strategy in training. This is bad with how the ICT centre was presented in St.meld. No 31 for 2007-2008, where the Centre’s contribution was primarily to ensure the sharing of experience in the field of ICT. In a letter from the Council of State to the UK on 28 April of this year, the ICT Centre is now highlighted as the government’s response to the need for a new national strategy. Let me state that the Right recognises the important role of national ICT centres in education can and should play, not as policy policy makers, but as implementers of national policy objectives in the field and for sharing experience – in the same way as the other national centres in mathematics, natural sciences, reading, etc. Do it. I myself have visited the Center for ICT in education in Tromsø, and I am impressed by what they have done in a little year. However, the centre is newly established and has a major role to play in following up the implementation of ICT in initial training. There's still a lot of mess here, and a lot of teachers experience that they're necks for students that are partly far ahead of them. And even though School-Norway has a lot of good equipment and modern equipment, it doesn't mean that education goes on rails automatically. Teachers tell about the struggle for students' attention in competition with Facebook, blogs and other websites. Teachers also raise questions about how to improve the availability and quality of digital learning material. The ITU Monitor has identified significant differences in the amount and use of ICT in education. The reasons are complex, but the availability of equipment, wide variety in teaching skills and differences in the propensity to use digital tools pose a real danger that differences in use may increase further if national authorities do not take action to ensure that Norwegian students receive equivalent education in the digital field as well. In view of this, the Right considers that there is a clear need for a new national strategy for ICT in training – not an action plan, but in the same way as we have a national strategy for real science, the Right believes that it is important to put in place a national strategy for ICT in training. There are many actors who can play a role in meeting those strategies, but there is obviously a vacuum and vacuum in a very important area today. The main objective of this strategy must be to prevent the development of a digital distinction among Norwegian students, which is something that the ITU Monitor warns against if no more systematic action is taken. Right-wing fears that the absence of a national ICT strategy will mean that the necessary action will not be taken because this requires political attention and priority. The right cannot see that ICT centres have or can play this role. The Government Parties refer to the ICT Centre's letter of assignment in the setting. Right-wing believes this is an annual order, which should spring out of an overall strategy. However, the right-hand side believes that the ICT centre, with its competence, will be an important pre-dispenser for the design of a national strategy. Therefore, the right maintains that there is a significant weakness in the further implementation and development of ICT as a tool in the training that the ‘Programme for Digital Competence 2004-2008’ strategy has not been replaced by a new concrete strategy to ensure that Norwegian teachers acquire the necessary skills and security of educational use of ICT, to ensure that all Norwegian students can develop good digital skills, and to achieve one of the objectives of the Knowledge Promise for all to develop digital competences. Here is a point that all municipalities and counties have to follow up their responsibilities. I believe that the National Centre for ICT in education does not have the necessary authority or authority in the meeting with the counties and municipalities to ensure that this responsibility of the municipalities is actually followed up in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1706	I grew up in a world without iPad, without Facebook and without Wikipedia. Today, these are both well-known brands and useful tools in a digital everyday life. Developments are moving fast, and we see indications of digital dividing lines in the population. This is why the school has a key role to play in making young people active and conscious users of ICT, and digital competence is therefore defined as a basic skill. I am a little surprised by the rapporteurs' wish for a new strategy. The lot Right tends to be critical to this. Then active action is better, and government acts. I believe that the Bondevik Government's Programme for Digital Competence 2004-2008 will continue in several areas, including: through the new ICT Centre in education, which was announced in the Quality Communication. How ICT can be used to promote learning and knowledge is a key issue in the work of the new centre. But that's not the way the opposition puts it, that with this center we've done our job in investing in ICT in school. There's a lot going on, and we have a professional and healthy critical approach to ICT as a tool in school. The use of ICT in school must be high-quality pedagogical and promote increased learning outcomes. Norway has spent billions on ICT in schools in recent years, and it is important to evaluate experience so far. It is therefore gratifying that the Council of State in its letter of reply states that Norway should participate in an international study on ICT in school. ICT has changed school life, and it is important, in the view of the Centre Party, to learn from this, and to ensure that we use ICT in a way that promotes learning outcomes and is for the benefit of students. The Youth School Communication also deals with ICT. In this context, it is stated that good use of ICT means that the use should be targeted and directed by the teacher. I experience a great deal of awareness locally – in many municipalities and in many schools – about the use of ICT. Two weeks ago, I visited new Trentom School in Gran. Here, each step has separate PC drives associated with each classroom and portable PC classroom locked in PC cabinets. The smartboard was of course also in use. In other words, the infrastructure is in place, and there is a great deal of emphasis on teacher competence. Employees and school owners take joint responsibility for integrating ICT into school day, with the opportunities offered by a new school building. Counties and municipalities also work actively with ICT in school. KS has developed a strategy for the local digital agenda at school, and the counties have merged on the National Digital Learning Arena. There have been some initial problems, but it shows that one is also locally concerned with rapid and good development in this area. In sum, in the opinion of the Centre Party, this makes the need for a new national strategy superfluous.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1717	As representatives of Wickholm and Rindal, I also wonder that it is precisely the opposition and the right-wing parties who are calling for more national planning and more national strategies. It is very alarming, as I have said before, from this pulpit – for those who want to listen to us outside of the Stortinget, are wondering, as well as what we are doing in this debate – that it is the right parties in Norway who are asking for more national government, especially when we are now talking about an area where we have a newly established centre as just, as it has come up in good speeches here in the past, that has been given clear tasks in this area, which to a very large extent captures what many opposition posts have pointed to as questions that need to be answered in the future. For me, this is typically a field where we have enough plans. Not least because our school owners, like Johannes Rindal, have made their own plan, this is precisely an area where we need to develop good practice. It's very nice that we've got a central competence environment that will help all the eager school owners around to speed up this practice development. The lot to the right is e.g. Very conscious of – not least in the context of national meetings – that they are the party that is really interested in setting the municipalities free and, in this way, letting them escape this red-green little bit such a clumsy control. When the same municipalities then make their own policy, their own strategy in this area, where they do not say that it is a problem that the national state is not more clear about the control signals, it is funny that it is precisely the Right that is clearly in favour of this so-called empty space that needs to be filled with national strategy. No, let's now take a closer look at all the exciting development that's going on out there. Let's really show trust in the center that's now going on, and then maybe we'll get back to it. Not least if those involved in that development are calling for more national policies, we can come back to it and discuss whether such policies are needed and what kind of policies are needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1726	To this morning I was at Oslo Cathedral School and handed out the Holmboe Prize for 2011. The Holmboe price goes to a math teacher who deserves an extra attention, and Holmboe was Niels Henrik Abel's math teacher. In this context, it is important to make the job that I now believe is a job no. 1 to get a job in Norwegian school, and it's getting rid of math stress and getting into a real-time job strategy, because we have big challenges in that area. That's 30 pst. by students out of the tenth grade who have a 2 or lower grade in mathematics. That's the subject most at Vg1 in high school. I believe it is crucial that we now learn from the reading strategy that has made clear and clear progress to refer to, not least in terms of the latest PISA results, with progress from 2006 to 2009. We also have progress in mathematics and science, but we haven't done as well in getting into a real science strategy that's so easy for everyone to know what to actually do. Real science is also one of the main fields of action that we bring forward in the Youth Level Communication, precisely because we see that it is too uniform, too slightly varied, too little practical, too little relevant and too little debated teaching in mathematics at high school. It is essential to train teachers and focus fully on it in the future. In the context of the Youth Level Communication, we have also joined a research team from the OECD that has given us some recommendations. One of the recommendations they make on Norwegian school policy is that we focus on fewer fields of action at a time. If a new strategy is launched at the top of the strategies we already have, these will compete for attention. Our approach to the challenges we face in the field of ICT is the establishment of the national centre in Tromsø. They work systematically to serve municipalities and counties and do some of the things we think are crucial, namely to think about using ICT in all disciplines and to have all kinds of imaginable inputs. Therefore, the use of ICT will also be a track record in the context of the real economy. We set up the new ICT Centre on 1 January 2010. The letter of allocation for the Centre gives the following objectives and main priorities: ‘The main objective of the Centre’s work is better use of ICT for increased quality, enhanced learning outcomes and improved learning strategies in education. The Centre’s scope is mainly basic, kindergarten and pre-school teacher training. ICT centres are responsible for disseminating high-quality knowledge about ICT and learning. The Centre shall assess new technologies and digital media and analyse their educational potential. It shall disseminate, guide and facilitate knowledge of the use of ICT in education. Information shall be up-to-date, transparent and easily accessible to all.’;» I believe that the mission given to the ICT Centre responds to the challenges raised in this proposal. I don't think it's like working best in Norwegian school by having as many adopted strategies as possible, because they want to compete with each other for attention. What's most about doing now is making sure that we're able to keep focus and get a boost that makes our efforts and our way of working in real science give better results. And then it's not like the more we crowd out, the more we get out. So if we focus, we have a better chance of getting results in some areas. I know that there are a lot of municipalities working around very well in a lot of counties in a lot of schools – also in a lot of high schools – precisely because working more varied and more motivating to students is also about being up-to-date on how to use ICT. But then it's an instrument related to the goals we've now said are the most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1748	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1752	We have a lot of statistics when it comes to the school in Norway. For example, we know that painting is well documented, although it may often seem a little boring to students. We don't know as much about how ICT usage in school turns out. Does the Council of State think that we know well enough, or does it think it would have been in place with a greater research effort in this field – in order to gain experience and to be able to reinvent the ICT bet in the school, based on documented facts rather than on a vision of how we should organize this work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1759	That's exactly why we've set up a national centre: to systematize the knowledge we have. That's why we're participating in international research programmes. That's why we've strengthened education research in general. Saying that all the board lessons are good teaching, at least I won't put two lines under. I guess that's not really supposed to be when you make a heading like this either. Tablets can be used well or poorly, and ICT can be used well or poorly. It could be an incredible time thief for a teacher. It could also be what really makes a class sparkle with interest. That is why there are questions about how to use it most effectively, which arrangements are the best, and how to develop it. That's exactly why we've set up the ICT Center.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1766	With the promise of knowledge, digital competence came in as the fifth basic skill, and it's unusually important that we have as high ambitions to succeed in introducing it as we have in the other disciplines. I stand here with a third-generation strategy for the real subjects, and if it is, of course, we have said that it has come to stay. It is difficult to understand why it should be less important that we should not be able to have a national strategy in a field as central as ICT, with the large investments that have been made, and as important as this is now in order to succeed in an entry-level phase. I don't think the Council of State was convincing in its presentation here as to why it shouldn't be like this. So I want to ask her, why is it less important for the Centers for ICT in education to have a strategy at the bottom of their work than it is for the Math Center, for example.?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1773	I am very amazed at the Right approach to this matter. I thought they had some sympathy for how to focus most on the national strategies being implemented at school. That's why we're now focusing mostly on real science. We're also focusing on reading about the boys. But the tool we use for ICT is the job that the national ICT centre should have. It's not like we have a strategy for each of our national centers. It is that we select some overall national strategies in some areas. A number of these challenges have just been identified in the studies carried out by the Time Use Committee. The easiest thing for me now would have been to say that dear friend, we make a national strategy, tie it in between some thick perms, send it out to the schools and say, Do the job! No, now we're going to focus on what we think is most important. Now, the ICT centre is going to serve with the tools they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1784	ICT is so much more than writing tools, although I think the representative from Wickholm indicated that this was what he thought it was. It is also about using all ICT opportunities in education. There, I think the Knowledge Centre will be a good premiscuous supplier. But in St.meld. No 31 for 2007-2008, this centre is advertised as a tool for sharing experience, and it says that it will return to the follow-up to the Digital Competence Programme. This means that when this centre was introduced, it was thought that there was a need for a strategy at the bottom, a program that could be a driver, and that the ICT centre would be allowed to develop it by using ICT in learning in another way. When it changed — that there was a need for such a type of follow-up to a programme? And when did the center change its status from being a tool to become the main initiative of the government in the field of ICT in school?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1791	I'm not quite sure if I understand the depth of this question. As I understand the proposed document 8, it calls for a national ICT strategy. We have a strategy for ICT that is to set up the ICT Centre, which is to let them know what their tasks are. It includes a lot of what would be part of a national strategy. But our main point is that we focus on implementing the strategies we have already decided. The ICT centre has recently been established. They've got these jobs. They're supposed to do it. Interdisciplinary work will be done on the challenges we face in using ICT to make education more exciting. And it may be that at a later stage we come back to a national strategy for ICT, but at that point we believe that our priorities are right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1798	So the line chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1803	The ICT guru Bill Gates has written that it is not computer technology itself and its results that are most important, but the changes in the organisation of operations it forces. There is no doubt that the use of ICT has changed a lot in our society over just one generation, but it is also likely that we have only seen the beginnings of the even greater societal changes ICT will lead to. That the use of social media on the Internet could lead dictatorial regimes would hardly be thought of just five to six years ago, not least because the social media itself was scarcely intended just five to six years ago. The digital competence of the rebels was obviously greater than that of the dictators. It shows how important digital competence is. Today, we are debating a proposal from the Right for a new national strategy for ICT in training. As one of the proposers, I think the proposal should have been unnecessary. Such a strategy should have been presented automatically by the government to replace the previous strategy, which ended in 2008. It's almost obvious that neither the government nor the government parties here in the Storting realize this. Both in the debate today and in the comments of the government parties, the classic mix of concepts and relationships is well known from strategic debates in other forums. Since strategy was my favorite subject at Norway's School of Economics, I will take an ultra-short definition of the term'strategie'. Strategy is the path to the goal. In other words, it starts with a defined goal, in this case for example. digital competence for all pupils. The strategy will then provide a description of how to achieve this objective, what instruments to use, what resources are required, how long it will take, etc. So they're part of the strategy. Very often, strategic discussions reveal that instruments are confused with objectives or strategies. This, in my view, is also happening in this debate. A central tool for ICT in training is the establishment of a dedicated ICT centre in education, but the centre itself is neither a strategy nor an objective. Then it becomes confusing when the government parties write in their note: ‘The majority believe that the creation of a dedicated ICT centre in education meets the need for a new ICT strategy in training addressed by the proposed representative.’ [[...]] No, an instrument does not make the need for a strategy superfluous. That's two completely different things. And the instruments work best when they are anchored in a strategy, that is, as part of a larger whole. Our – Right – representative proposals should be unnecessary, but unfortunately they are not.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1823	When I visited Centers for ICT in education in Tromsø, I got the last ITU Monitor, which is from 2009 – at least it was the last they had when I visited them half a year ago. Then it's kind of very obvious that we have a pretty long way to go to Norwegian school before we can be calmed down in that we're not now reintroducing and developing distinctions between students that we're not going to be able to close again. That's why it's so important that we're now really dedicated, and that it doesn't go wrong in terms of digital skills and the development of digital skills. I'm just going to refer to a couple-three points. One of the main findings is that primary education is still far behind secondary education in terms of ICT use in day-to-day school work. In addition, like previous measurements, we find that there are still considerable variations between students, schools and stages, and we see digital distinctions between students in the study, both in the use of computers and digital competences. Ergo is a considerable job to do before we can say we are satisfied in achieving the objectives that are so clearly planted in the Knowledge Lift. As far as the strategy for real science is concerned, we know that this strategy is not sucked either by the breast of the Natural Science Centre or by the breast of the Math Center. There is a strategy developed in cooperation between the education sector, the research sector and industry. Similarly, the Right believes that it is important that the National Centre and the Education Authorities also inform themselves about the world in which we live, and in view of the ever-new skills requirements that also meet us in terms of digital skills. The representative Rindal was concerned that the Right asked for many strategies. Yeah, we're actually doing that. In the areas where we have high ambitions on behalf of Norwegian students, and where we want Norwegian students to meet an equivalent school offer, it is essential that we have some national provisions to ensure that either you start at school in Måløy, Molde or Oslo, you have to be sure that you meet a school that will give you the ballast you need on the way. So there's no contradiction between the fact that we have national requirements and leads for the Norwegian students' rights and how they will be able to meet them, and the fact that we then give the municipalities the opportunity to choose a little bit of different paths to the goal. But we can't have it so we're going to sit in this room and be almost indifferent to whether the fifth basic skill actually gets the attention it should have in Norwegian school, and if Norwegian school actually has the teaching skills needed to achieve such a central goal in the Knowledge Lift.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1834	During the line change, something was discussed as conservative and boring as boards. It was said that it is not all board teaching that is good. That's probably right. But what we know after many years of more focused research is that board education – none of us are going to win the election to say that – is actually a relatively ‘user’ educational platform. This debate is not just – as it may sometimes sound like – about the maximum use of ICT, because it is important to implement ICT and give everyone the opportunity to use ICT. It's also about, but it's also about the right use of ICT, using digital tools in school properly. I think we have to say that at all levels, from elementary school to higher education, there have been some projects that may not have been research-based, but which should perhaps have been evaluated. I also see this debate in that light. We also need to deploy resources to find out if we're using digital instruments in school properly, not just that we're using them as much as we can. But it's also, of course, as the representative Aspaker said, about making sure that all children have the opportunity to do so. Then we come to the fact that it's not just about machines and digital aids. It is also about empowering teachers to use these tools and tools in school education. I just wanted to underline those points.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1845	It's possible that we don't agree, but it's nice to take an article to anyway. It is, of course, a recognised technique of ruling to refer to its own competence. I'll do the same. I'm the first amanuensis in strategic planning. Elisabeth Aspaker said very clearly that the objectives are ‘clearly planted in the Knowledge Lift’. Well, then we have the targets in place. Then Elisabeth Aspaker goes on to say that we have an indifference in following up those goals. Is it indifference when you've put in place a center with a heavy, rich allocation letter, which shows what we expect from the center? Is it indifferent that the school owners in Norway, municipalities and county municipalities have made a good and proper plan to address this area in a proper way? This is definitely not indifference! As a growth representative, I appreciate the fact that the municipalities and county councils that school owners have understood some of the message in a big message and followed it up in the affordable, good way. Tord Lien says that it is very important that we develop and find out what is the right use of ICT, etc. Yeah, that's exactly what the center has to work with, along with the school owners. There's already a lot of exciting going on in real life. Can we not let this development of practice continue? We've all cross-politically admitted that the targets are in place. Let interns be allowed to work on this, and then we may get back to it when we have gained experience, if there is a need for the state to enter with some clearer steering signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1857	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1860	No, of course, it is not indifferent to set up ICT centres, but I maintain that there is a disclaimer from national authorities when one of the five basic skills is not a national strategy, which is one of the most important building blocks of the Knowledge Lift. And it's disclaimer when you're not interested in research and evaluation, and it's a national discharge if you don't ensure that you get a debate about resource access and framework and what kind of opportunities the ICT Center actually has to carry out the big mission that the State Council thinks she's given it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1865	I think it's a use of words beyond what has been the subject of today's discussion, calling it a 'depreciation of responsibility', and that there is no purpose and no meaning in the ICT bet. It's completely wrong. A national ICT centre is not established in Tromsø if you do not have a plan and systematics in relation to how to implement an effort in terms of basic skills. To use that kind of characteristic in this debate, I must say, is entirely on earth. We've created a national center. We have a very intensive work in very many municipalities, county councils and schools with regard to the use of ICT. We have an ambition to use it as an instrument in different disciplines, but we can't believe that every time we have a challenge in Norwegian school, the answer to that is a national strategy, at the top of the national strategies we have from before. We have a plan for how to do better work for ICT in school. It is within the mission given to the ICT Centre. It lies in the job that takes place very many places per day. The national strategy, which is the most important one we are about to implement, is about real science.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1881	I have to say that I am responding to the Council of State's use of words in the last article, which was clearly a reaction to Elisabeth Aspaker's use of words. But I think that a government council that characterises a post from this pulpit that is entirely ‘hidden’ and ‘all on earth’ should consider, especially when the representative in question does not have the time to speak again, and cannot defend himself. To the content of the article: The Council of State says that, of course, she does not set up a centre for ICT in education without having a plan for it. We're going to have hope of that. It's relatively obvious. However, the point is that the Right in its proposal for a representative calls for a national strategy that should be more than a plan for ICT centres in education and training. We want a national strategy, where we have a greater overview and look at different instruments, overall resource effort, schedule, etc. So the fact that the Centers for ICT become a very central tool in such a plan is quite obvious. But it is not the only instrument. And I am absolutely sure that the Council of State itself can also immediately think of a number of other instruments that it is natural to see in connection with this. There is, of course, just the context in which efforts are being made on a broad social basis and under the direction of several actors, for example: the different levels of government, which it is natural to see collectively in such a national strategy. The argumenting of such a strategy should be met by completely different arguments from those of the Council of State than that it is ‘all over the earth’ and that the use of language is ‘hidden’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1892	Just a short note. I have not, of course, characterised big business representatives in this debate. But I believe that when you use such strong words as accusing the majority of people of ‘depreciation’ in relation to a basic skill, it goes far beyond what anyone else in this debate has used in terms of characteristics. I think that in the discussion that is now going on around ICT, there have been degrees of discussion about what kind of instruments to use, not the disagreement that ICT skills are important, not the disagreement that we have set up a national centre that has just been tasked with cooperating with school owners, municipalities and counties to achieve a good development in ICT around School Norway. I think that's just a follow-up to what's been the intentions for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1901	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4143]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1917	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1926	The German theologian and priest Martin Niemöller have said in the poem «Likeness»: 'First they took the Communists but I didn't care because I wasn't a Communist. Then they took the trade unionists, but I didn't care because I wasn't a unionist. Then they took the Jews but I didn't care because I wasn't Jewish. Finally they took me. But then there was no one left to care about." The International Holocaust Day marks each year the day the world was confronted with, when the Allied forces marched into the atrocities that manifested themselves in the extermination camp of Auschwitz, and released it over 65 years ago. In 2005, the United Nations General Assembly decided to do just that day, January 27, as an international holocaust anniversary. In addition to European Jews, the people of space, tattoos, homosexuals, disabled persons, mentally ill, communists and other left-wing opposition who the Nazi regime wanted to eradicate were also subject to the devastation. The extinction that the world witnessed here was unparalleled, and everyone was absolutely sure that this could never happen again. Nevertheless, it has happened. In Cambodia, nearly two million of the country’s inhabitants were wiped out in an attempt to restart their thinking. 800,000 tussiers were killed in 1994 by their own neighbors, because they were not cabins. In Europe, Muslims in Bosnia have been the victims of a Serbian genocide. In Norway the holocaust day is marked on Akershuskaia in Oslo. Here the Norwegian Jews were brutally stowed on board the ‘Donau’ in 1942 to be sent to Auschwitz and extermination. The arrestations that preceded this were mostly carried out by the Northmen. It's not a proud moment in Norwegian history. Everyone should learn from this. We don't know who's capable of participating in such terrible acts until they happen. Nevertheless, there is reason to believe that awareness-raising and awareness-raising are essential for this never to happen again. ‘It may happen again’ is also the title of the report by the Working Party, chaired by Inge Eidsvåg, to the Ministry of Knowledge. Their recommendation is that anti-semitism, racism and multicultural understanding should be given greater emphasis in school. The majority of the Committee agrees. It is our job as politicians and leaders in Norway to fight genocide, oppression, racism, discrimination and antisemitism. It is serious when innocent Jewish children are harassed for their religion, or blamed for things and actions that happen elsewhere in the world, even in Israel. It's scary when kids do this to each other and use that kind of accusations, and it's not because these kids have read about it themselves. These attitudes come from a place, and I believe that teachers and parents bear a heavy responsibility here. But it is also frightening when we have representatives in this big issue who say: ‘Non-Western immigration to Norway, especially from Muslim countries, is clearly unprofitable for Norwegian society’. Similarly, when other representatives have said that ‘Islam does not endure values of freedom’ and that ‘all in Norway must swear allegiance to Christian values’. Drawing conclusions about individual individuals based on group membership is a very serious and dangerous activity. Jonas Gahr Støre said last year, during the marking of the International Holocaust Day at Akershus, that as a society we must fight against this – against antisemitism and against ideologies that exclude and spread hatred. This is a fight that concerns us all, and where we all have a responsibility, said the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I agree. That is why I am also pleased that, among other things, the Minister of Knowledge in the secondary school communication, she also shares the Eidsvåg report’s recommendation that work on anti-semitism and racism should be strengthened in school. The intention of the proposal that we are discussing here today is good. The majority just think that it can be done in other ways. The International Holocaust Day is a good opportunity to see the historical events in connection with today's societies and draw conclusions and lessons from it. The contents of that day should not be fragmented and address individual elements. We know that ‘it can happen again’ and that it can only be combated by knowledge and attitudes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1977	The background to this proposal for a representative is that the position of Jews is becoming increasingly negative in several European countries. This is also true in today’s Norway. Our history in World War II just confirms the rude and shameful treatment and the view we have had of Jews. Unfortunately, bullying and harassment are still part of everyday life for school students with Jewish background. An example that clearly describes and shows today’s treatment of Jewish schoolchildren is, in fact, a reading in the Evening Post on 5 May, where with a talking title it read the following: «Nedhysted racism... Jewish hatred grows up in Norwegian school, without being followed up by politicians. I know that older students in high school have been standing at the door after the free minute and just let them in who assure them that they are not Jews. This is antisemitism, and must do something about it! Racism has become equivalent to discrimination against Muslims or dark-skinned, but bullying because one is Jewish is at least as often, at least in school. Much is done by people who have a bad relationship with the State of Israel, e.g. immigrants from the countries of Israel have long been in conflict with. But I also know about Jews who have been dissected by the North for the actions of the State of Israel. Theses believe the Jewish state is guilty of genocide and discrimination against the Palestinians. The worst thing is when Adolf Hitler is made as a hero. This is usually due to lack of knowledge, which is also a cause of antisemitism. We need to learn more about the suffering of the Jews. If everyone knows what the Nazis were doing, there might be a lot of people thinking about an extra time before they talk positively about them. We need a public debate on this. In addition, schools should take up Jewish hatred.’ This reading article says absolutely everything about what this matter is about, and shows that there is a need to put Jew hatred on the agenda with a separate national date. Norwegian politicians and parties have, in several cases, expressed themselves indisputably and negatively about Israel. The fact that central Norwegian politicians and parties go out and encourage boycott of Israeli goods will also affect Jews living in Norway. Nor has Norway, as the first European nation to recognise a Palestinian government made up of Hamas, helped to strengthen diplomatic relations between Israel and Norway, which is often evident in the media. Such statements are often unhealthy and are taken to income for and in support of legitimizing harassment and bullying of Jews. To nuance and point out that these opinions and statements are not addressed to individuals – which I do not think they are – and that they are not accepted as grounds for Jewish hatred, there is a need for dialogue and discussion on these issues to produce different shades of events in both public and private schools. Therefore, it is important that the school facilitates students to address the issues that are emerging in the media or that concern them in particular. Like many other people, many teachers probably have different opinions and interpretations about the Middle East conflict. This is a sensitive and difficult theme that can cause teachers to be unsure about how to teach in a good way. It is therefore important, as the Department of Knowledge Working Party also points out, that anti-semitism and racism enter different subjects of teacher training, so that a person is given an overall competence in this area. This will make teachers better able to combat harassment. Learning about how Jews were treated in connection with World War II and how many experience being treated today is of great importance in coping with the harassment and bullying that is taking place. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that 27 January, the Holocaust Day, is an important international day of marking that should have an international focus. However, the Progress Party believes that it is also important to focus on nearby and current events in our own country and on Norway's shameful treatment of Jews before, during and after World War II, and will therefore introduce November 26 as a national holocaust day. I am thus promoting the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1995	The representative Bente Thorsen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e1998	First, a comment on the disagreement we have in the matter here, in conclusion: in our opinion, it is precisely by marking that day, along with other countries in the world, that we refer to what we have experienced in this country, and it must be put into a larger context in order to understand exactly what happened in its time and to underline how we, together with other countries and other people, are going to work on this forward. But when that is said, I would say that all of us who are happy in diversity – who are happy in the ethnic, cultural, religious and life diversity of a society – are happy to have such debates as today, because it gives us an opportunity to stress how positive it is with diversity – that it is a strength for a society. And that's good, because diversity is becoming more and more normal, among other things. in Norwegian society. Good debates on this topic must include reflections on how to strengthen this diversity. At the same time, we also need to take into account what will help to prevent this diversity. This proposal for a representative raises an absolute obstacle: that, first, we may be forgetting the terrible, the disgusting – the racist acts that happened to us against a group of people – and that, second, we are actually in a situation today where we are still engaged in racist behaviour against the same group of people. It's especially gratifying, I think, that it's just the Progress Party that chooses to stand up to racism, as they do here. And I choose then, at least in part, to ignore that the Advance Party is not able at the same time to avoid reporting anything negative to Muslims. When the government last year put antisemitism particularly prominently on the map, they did so by delivering an order to a sample that has already been mentioned, the Inge Eidsvåg selection. Then they operated with equivalence between the terms «antisemitism» and «racism». The selection of seamen, when they delivered their report, also included the concept of ‘discrimination’ in order to demonstrate precisely that antisemitism cannot be debated independently of the introduction of it into an overall debate on racism. It is precisely what the Eidsvåg report is so good at, both to pay particular attention to antisemitism – it was one of the main points here – and at the same time to underline the universal nature of all forms of discrimination and racism. All forms have their peculiar history, while the basic mechanisms are the same. Now, when we want to give special attention to the fate of the Jews – or remind us that it is important to give it an attention – I appreciate that this is being put into a larger context. It's precisely when this selection from our side becomes so credible and so strong. A little back to the Inge Eidsvåg report: With the fact that – in good and bad – perhaps Islam debate is the most common in society, I think the report takes up what they call anti-semitism, and what they call Islamphobia. Then I think we should all note, and I must say not least the representative of the Progress Party, that for example. on page 29 reads, cf. the wording of the proposal for a representative, very clearly that within Islam or the Muslim world there is no tradition of being negative to Jews or of having a Jewish hatred. On the contrary, it is – and here it is referred to research – that this is an attitude that Muslim countries have imported from us – imported from Europe – and that has developed not least in connection with the establishment of the State of Israel. Then we're the first to stress -- that's one of the main issues here -- that it's important to distinguish between what the State of Israel has done and what it's doing, and what kind of attitudes we're going to have to the Jews. We're not supposed to let what we think is crimes on the part of the State of Israel go beyond the Jews. But it is important to remind us that the somewhat evil remarks we send to Islam and the Muslim world here, in many ways, have been imported, as I said, and as referred to in the report, from the European world – from our own culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2011	Samuel, Sammy, Steinmann has seen more suffering and more corpses than a human can bear. His eyes are still crying. Sammy Steinmann survived the concentration camps, but can never forget. On the left arm he has the number that will forever remind him of the years of captivity, 79 231, a number he got because he was Jewish – 79 231. Steinmann saw friends, relatives, and unknowns being killed. Big brother Harry was one of them. Steinmann was also to be killed, but clung himself to the will of life: "I wanted to survive. I had to tell the world about what we were experiencing. It is my duty to those who died, says Samuel Steinmann." Holocaust didn't start with the gas chamber in Auschwitz. It started a lot before, as a fear of strangers and as a prejudice, also in our own country. Our constitution of 1814, which we celebrate on 17 May, had a paragraph that excluded Jews from the kingdom. The scepticism of Jews before World War II was not only a peculiar or Nazi phenomenon, but also widespread in parts of Norwegian society. The Jews were ridiculed and suspected by cartoons and newspaper articles, and many were feeding a general distrust of Jews in Norway. One would think that the crazy story of what happened to the Jews during the war was to be a guarantee against such never happening again. Unfortunately, it's not like that. The NRK revealed, through a series of reports last year, how antisemitism and Jewish hatred are progressing in Norway. The NRK spoke to several Jewish parents, who could tell about the gross harassment of their children. This is a development we have to take to the deepest seriousness. History has shown that the struggle for human dignity against racism and antisemitism must continue. If we don't have a conscious relationship with this, it can happen again. That is why the Christian People's Party has promoted a proposal that is now under consideration in the Municipal and Administrative Committee to implement an action plan against Jew hatred in Norway. We propose, among other things: ensuring that the day of the holocaust becomes a mandatory anniversary in all schools, increasing awareness of antisemitism and holocaust and implementing targeted measures against the bullying of Jewish students in school. In 2005, the United Nations decided on 27 January to be an international anniversary dedicated to the victims of Nazi extermination camps. It was on this date in 1945 that Soviet forces freed the survivors of Auschwitz in Germany from Poland. When I heard the rapporteur's statement, I hoped that I would misunderstand that you wanted to make this a general genocide day. Yes, there has been genocide elsewhere in the world, but this day the United Nations has certainly been assigned to the extermination of a people and of other victims by the Nazis. The Christian People's Party believes that we will be worthy to mark the Holocaust Day in common with the International Holocaust Day on January 27th. By combining this, our nation's history of what happened on November 26, 1942, will be related to the great story of how the nations failed the Jewish people. Then our situation will not be about our little story, but it will show how it was not just one man, but very many countries that were with us and made possible the extinction of a whole people. I think we'd earned a mandatory marking in the schools. I would have wanted the government to join in saying that this is not just going to be up to the individual, because through this, as a nation, we can hold on to human dignity, fighting for values that we believe together, that all people are as much worth. That is why I am promoting the proposal made by the Christian People's Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2040	The representative of Dagrun Eriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2043	I want to start with something that may not be so common on my part, namely thanking the Progress Party for raising an important issue. It is unusually important that we as a society do not forget the situation of the Jews during World War II, both globally and nationally. We have a collective responsibility that it never happens again. That's why we need to keep focused on the work against anti-semitism in society, and the school as a common institution has a crystal clear and important role in this context. For this very reason, I have considerable sympathy with the intention of the draft representative, which I feel is also expressed by an overall committee. The disagreement that occurs in the setting does not seem to me to be a very big disagreement either. I'm e.g. in full agreement with what is said in the proposal for a representative that 26 November 1942 is «a day of shame in Norwegian history, a day that must never be forgotten». But it is not the case that antisemitism is being reduced if you choose to integrate the International Holocaust Day on January 27 into school education rather than instituting your own national holocaust day on November 26th, as the representative proposes. It is an overall committee, all except the Progress Party, which indicates that the international holocaust marking on 27 January is already well integrated in the teaching of anti-semitism and racism in many schools in society. In addition to the recommendations of the working group which submitted the report ‘It may happen again’, such as: We know that today there is a lot of good work in schools every day. The left is on this background, like the other parties represented in the committee, of the belief that the framework for doing a solid awareness job is present in the school. It's not a single day of marking that helps fight racism and antisemitism, but a collective effort all the time. That is why I am pleased that the Left has received the support of the Right and Christian People's Party in the attitude to our comment on the importance of history teaching in school. Knowing its history is crucial to learning from it. Therefore, the Left is committed to seeing what opportunities exist to expand historical education at all levels of Norwegian school. Finally, let me link some reflections to dialogue as a tool in the fight against racism and antisemitism. The proposal for a representative claims that ‘no concrete countermeasures have been taken’ other than that the government normally invites to dialogue after the report on Jewish hatred in the Dagsrevy of March last year. I myself have organised a number of dialogue meetings, and this issue was actually on the agenda for a whole year before the NRC put it on the agenda in 2010. When I put ‘Hat against Jews’ on the agenda, several people said that this was an unconstructed issue. There's no Jewish hatred. Israel's policy, if any, was hated, but not Jews. But in March 2009, a full hall at the House of Literature in the presence of the PST Chief of State and with the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the podium could hear straight Jewish hats expressed. I'll refer to it, even though it's very cruel, but we have to know the cruel thing to be able to do something about it. A young man aged 22-23 stood up and said that the Northmen were born skiing on their legs, the Brazilians with football, while Jews were born with deceit and hypocrisy in their blood. Such atrocities are among us, in society, in schools, among children and young people. We have to know such atrocities and such cruel opinions in order to be able to do something with them. And it's clear that this also leads to radicalization. But we have to remember that Jewish hatred is also found in the Northmen's Northmen, as I often like to say, because I am a strict Northman – so-called immigrants and second generation immigrants. The Jewish hatred comes in all forms, in all colors, and it exists in many different minority populations, not least among the majority population. We all share a shared responsibility here, and I do not ask the Progress Party to underestimate the power of dialogue. Dialogue may change attitudes and opinions. Dialogue can help prevent hatred, racism and antisemitism. Yes, dialogue actually brings people together and contributes to bridge construction, which is absolutely necessary if we are to move further together as a society. Imre Hertz, who is one of the survivors of the Holocaust, was present in the Chamber on the day of this dialogue. He pointed out, like many others, that such people, like this 23-year-old, were hoping for, but their opinions were not hopeful. I think we can all do more, and I think increased debate and dialogue is one way to go, along with history education at school – and the school must be the common creative arena as it is. If we can do that, I'm sure we can do something about this in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2069	It is good that a theme that this proposal contains has such broad support, and then equal approach, from all the parties on the Stortinget, because it deserves it. After a news report that went on in March 2010 about Jewish students, and the media debate that followed, we set up a working group that suggested this in half a year. There are not many Jewish children and young people in Norway. It wasn't until the war, and it was definitely not after the war, because World War II went hard on the Norwegian Jews. That's not the point of this discussion either. Whether it is many or few, antisemitism is a totally unacceptable attitude. What is interesting, and as the working group did in making suggestions, is that it brought together students with Jewish background and students with Muslim background to dialogue on what was antisemitism and racism. What these students experienced was that there were many parallels in what they experienced — for example: how Muslim children felt that they were held responsible for what Al Qaeda did, and how Jewish children felt that they were held responsible for what the State of Israel did. For these students, it was quite special that they experienced so many things in parallel. What is important in the discussion is to take into account the knowledge we have about how the attitudes towards anti-semitism and racism are in the Norwegian population. We know something about young people's attitudes to antisemitism and their knowledge of, for example, holocaust — whether it has happened or whether they deny it. There is no large proportion of Norwegian youth who deny that this has happened. It's under 10 pst., but maybe there's still a pretty big proportion when there's the kind of atrocities in the story we're talking about. At least it should not be trivialised. What's interesting about the further debate is that there's no difference between minority and majority in this kind of attitude. There are none of us in this room who can say that this is primarily attitudes that exist in minority environments. It is simply that the issue of antisemitism is a problem that we must address with everyone, and a responsibility that everyone has to fight in their environments. In the context of the Youth Growth Communication, we have presented some of the proposals that this working group, led by Inge Eidsvåg, presented to us. I hope that the Committee will also address other individual proposals that were then put forward. I can only quickly take some of them. One proposal was to consider employing a professional at the Holocaust Centre for four years, who would be responsible for developing a training offer for teachers, among others. in the areas of anti-semitism, racism and conflict resolution. This is a very important proposal, because what the teachers in the single examples that have been drawn have said is that they are a little uptight about how to meet anti-racist and anti-semitist attitudes, denial of the Holocaust, etc. How do you actually meet it? The competence of teachers is very important here, as in all other contexts. A training offer can be considered to be developed in cooperation with professional environments with different top skills in this area around the country. It could be the Nansenskole, Wergelandsenteret, the Archive Foundation, the Raftostiftelsen and the Falstadsenteret. In the message, we also encourage schools to mark the International Holocaust Day on 27 January. I want this day to continue to be the marking day for the Holocaust in Norway, because that day is already well integrated in the teaching of anti-Semitism and racism by many schools. It's also this day the memory prize after Benjamin Hermansen is awarded. The working group behind the report ‘It may happen again’ has just highlighted the need for national mobilisation on the holocaust day. Of course, that also means that the knowledge and history we have around November 26 is crucial for everyone in Norway to know about. The story is quite shocking for quite a number of children who hear about it for the first time. [[President clubs]] But it's a shocking... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2092	The number is out. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2098	We must be careful to minimize our own actions and let them drown in international actions. On the basis of this, I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: What measures will she put in place specifically to make teachers safer in dealing with harassment and bullying of Jewish students in the Norwegian school? And does the Minister see that a separate marking of November 26 as Norway's own day of holocaust, where it is clearly taken away from the history and the treatment of many Jews today, will show that we do not want to evade our duty, that this will not happen again?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2105	I was in about any of this in my post. An offer of further training for teachers will be one way to proceed. Another way is to develop pedagogical resources – that is, a place where teachers can turn to get material, which they can easily use, on precisely these issues, including our own history and on 26 November, which I was in my post. That is precisely what is the title of the entire report by Inge Eidsvågs working group, namely that it can happen again. The entire vaccination against reoccurrence is knowledge, but there are also attitudes. Both of these areas are the red thread through the recommendations we get from this group, as well as recommending that this be a theme in the 2014 anniversary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2112	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2117	The celebration of the Holocaust on 27 January is important. Therefore, if our proposal falls, we will subsidiaryly support the proposals of the Christian People's Party today. The Holocaust Day is an international mark of international Jewish persecution – ‘Jewish persecution’ is a word commonly used in German terms, and the focus is often on Germany and Eastern Europe. To this extent, the concept of "Jewish persecution" is somewhat wrong – this is the only time in the history of the world that what has been attempted by an industrialized extermination of a people has been seen. So calling that persecution might not be a strong enough word. Despite the challenges facing many countries today, including Norway, this is a unique and, of course, tragic event in world history. The representative of Truls Wickholm was concerned with what is central: this was not a German phenomenon, it was also a Norwegian phenomenon. Policemen, bureaucrats, Norwegian soldiers in German service, and neighbors, helped to ensure that the persecution of Jews in some cities in Norway was almost as effective as in Germany. This is a Norwegian phenomenon, and it can be explained, among other things. if you look back at debates in this room, when the Stortinget adopted the Racial Hygiene Act in the spring of 1934. The spokesperson of the Labour Party then stands on this platform and is proud that Norway goes beyond Germany in 1934. Then I'm going to be careful to speculate in the motives of the other parties to think that it's best to discuss Jewish persecution as an international phenomenon, but it can be mentioned that Karl Evang was one of the architects behind the race hygiene law. I just want to end by quoting the representative Eriksen: ‘If we don’t have a conscious relationship with this, it can happen again.’ Therefore, it is important to note that this was not just something that Germany was doing in Eastern Europe, but that was something that happened in Norway too – and many Norwegians contributed actively.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2128	I just want to take the opportunity to answer a question asked by Dagrun Eriksen. I think it's going to be clear if you read the record of the post, but I explained the background that 27 January was chosen as the Holocaust Day, namely the liberation of Auschwitz, and I also mentioned the groups of people who were prisoners there. Then my point was that despite the incredibly terrible event, and what the representative Lien describes as an industrialized extermination of a people, did not teach the world; it was possible to commit genocide in Cambodia and also in Rwanda. I think something of the lesson of this day just has to be: how could such a terrible thing happen? And also what is described, that friends, acquaintances and neighbors repeatedly in these conflicts contribute to extinction: what is it in a society that makes these things happen? On the website of holocaustdag.no, it is written that the Holocaust day is a ‘good opportunity to link historical knowledge of crimes against humanity to the work of schools against racism and discrimination here and now’. Because if we're going to learn something from history, we have to change our society in a direction where such things become impossible in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2135	Two points: One is that I am glad that I misunderstood the representative of Wickholm – I may not have listened to him in all his speeches – and that he here stresses that the day of holocaust should of course be a sign of what happened during World War II. We fully agree with that. But then there's also a little bit of a need to comment on Tord Lien's articles. I can't speak for the arguments of the other parties, but the Christian People's Party's view is that one chooses the International Holocaust Day, just to underline the point that Tord Lien has, that is, that our actual history is not an isolated, small story, but has to be put into the big context that makes us, as everyday people, we as a nation, be on and contribute to something that sounds really unreal in Europe. It's to drag the big picture into the vicinity. I think we really agree that it's the most important thing to do, and then we pick little different solutions – whether it's best to set the international context first, or whether you're going to have your own day of selection. At least what I'm very pleased about is that there's a great deal of unanimity here in the Storting that both the facts about antisemitism and getting up when human dignity is threatened are important to learn the emerging generation through school, through attitudes and through what we politicians stand for. It's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2146	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4144]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2154	Then Stortinget went to voting on the matter on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2162	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Solvency Horne on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, from Solvency Horne on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: «The government asks the Government to submit a proposal for amendments to the National Social Security Act Sections 14-9 and 14-10 which respect both parents' right to take leave at the same time immediately after the death of the child during the social security period.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2186	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests a full review of the rights of parents in the event of the death of the child.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2217	A total of seven proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, on behalf of the Progressive Party, Right and Christian People's Party, proposal No. 4, by Øyvind Hope on behalf of the Christian People's Party the proposals No. 5-7, from Abid Q. Raja on behalf of the Left Proposals Nos. 1 to 4 is included in the setting on page 5, while the proposals No. 5-7 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. Five to seven from the left. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to stop the shift from municipal service to state level by coordinating the level of pay between state and municipal child protection.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking for incentives for a more pay-differed system that also motivates more highly educated people, such as psychologists, lawyers, specialised educators and socionomists and child protection educators with additional training, to work in the field of child protection.’ Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to change the placement of child protection education and training from funding category F to category D, at the latest in the context of the 2012 government budget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2258	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 4, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a pool of competences for the first line service of child protection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2273	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for measures to improve the quality of welfare education and training.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The Government asks the Government to ensure that the educational institutions follow up the St.meld's intentions. No 21 The dignity of men is at the centre, to preserve the human rights of children.’ [[1999-2000]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to clarify and clarify with respect to child protection what a notification and investigation under the law on child protection services § 4-2 and § 4-3 should contain.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2312	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2320	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No I, by Mr Solvency Horne, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2 and 3, Proposals Nos. 1-3 is included in the setting on page 3, while proposal No. 4 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to promote cases aimed at improving the framework conditions for, and stimulating increased use of, flexible opening-time kindergartens.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2353	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 2 and 3, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government requests a proposal for a maximum residence time in kindergartens of 47.5 hours per year. week.’» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to draw up guidelines to prevent open night and evening kindergartens.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2376	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. Four, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to draw up guidelines so that kindergartens wishing to have flexible opening hours are subject to maximum residence conditions for children.’ The Christian People's Party has announced that they support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2397	During the debate, Elisabeth Aspaker put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. In the course of the debate, the proposal has been converted into a transmission proposal and the text will be amended accordingly. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the government facilitate the organisation of exams in Norwegian and English at the end of the summer holiday of the students.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2422	During the debate, Dagrun Eriksen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to develop a new ICT strategy in training with emphasis on enhanced teacher competence, better integration into the disciplines, the development of good digital skills among students, simplification of administrative tasks and the further development of school-home contact.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2453	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mr Thorsen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2465	I recommend that the Progress Party vote subsidiaryly for proposal No. 2, and then it might be an advantage if we first vote on proposal No. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2470	Of course -- both we up here and the computer -- can accept that. – It takes some time, we think carefully. Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The Government is asked to set up a national holocaust day on 26 November.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2487	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to make the International Holocaust Day on 27 January a national mobilization day.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-23.ana.ud801e2573	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
