ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e30	The representative of Laila Gustavsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. A number of permit applications are available: from representatives Ivar Kristiansen and Karin S. Woldseth on leave from 9 May to 11 May, both to attend the UN Conference of the Least Developed Countries of Istanbul of the Group of the Progressive Democrats on the Permit of the Representative Jan Arild Ellingsen from 9 May to 11 May, to attend the conference of the Parliamentary Assembly of NATO in Berlin and Munich of the representatives of Else-May Botten, Gunvor Eldegard and Hallgeir H. Langeland on leave from 9 May to 10 May, all to attend the 60th session of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union in Paris Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Rogaland county, Lasse Kinden Endresen, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland's leave on Tuesday 10 May, and from the first alternate of the Nordland county, Kari Storstrand, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen's leave from 9 May to 11 May – both for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Anita OrlundFor Hordaland County: Torkil ÅlandFor Moren and Romesdal County: Eva Vinje AurdalFor Nordland County: Jonni Helge Solsvik and Allan JohansenFor Rogaland County: Lasse Kinden Endresen and Geir Allan StavaAnita Orlund, Torkil Åmland, Eva Vinje Aurdal, Jonni Helge Solsvik, Allan Johansen and Lasse Kinden Endresen are present and will sit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e127	Thank you for this opportunity to follow up the Prime Minister's statement of 29 March this year to provide an update both on developments in Libya and on the Norwegian and international efforts to protect the civilian population, to remedy the humanitarian situation and to contribute to a political solution to the conflict. Norway has engaged in the Libyan conflict humanitarian, political and military. The conflict is complex with many dilemmas and no simple, perfect solutions. It is therefore right and important that Norwegian efforts are widely and thoroughly debated, both in this room and elsewhere in public space. The Norwegian military involvement has received broad support in Stortinget. It's important when it's about such a serious commitment, and it's important for our women and men who participate in the mission. We are now in the middle of a settlement on Libya's future. For the population of the country, it is about abolishing an authoritarian regime and ensuring participation and development opportunities for the many rather than the few. For us, it is about promoting profound values that we believe in – ensuring the protection of civilians, helping people in need, strengthening the UN and the international legal order, and supporting central principles of international law that we, historically, have even been involved in fighting for. I want to remind you of this: the situation in Libya, the world community had some action options that were far from ideal. The clearly worst of them all was not doing anything. The world community had solid information that an emergency situation for the Libyan population was under way. Gaddafi's own statements that he would strike hard on the opposition using military power were very worrying. The consequences of not acting could be disastrous for the civilian population of Libya. Despite the fact that the situation in Libya today is difficult and unsolved, and civilians are still subjected to severe trials as a result of internal fighting, it is important to raise this very question: what would the alternative be, if we had not shown the necessary force of action? Sometimes military means of power are required as part of an overall effort to prevent abuse and lay the basis for peace and stability. I understand that commentators and others ask: Yes, but what about other brutal regimes? I admit it's a dilemma, a question without a simple answer. However, it cannot be that non-agreement to intervene in one critical situation should be a decisive argument against intervention when the UN Security Council actually accumulates. And we can assume that the fact that it has been reacted has brought many dictators over the past few weeks. After the adoption of Resolution 1973, action had to be taken quickly. Norway was among those countries that were able to act quickly, with the rapid deployment of an effective and operational military contribution. The government made its decisions based on our constitutional framework. As time went on, they kept in touch with the parties at Stortinget. I would like to thank the leaders of the opposition parties for their cooperation over the critical days at the end of March. It is a strength for a country such as Norway that foreign policy is broadly anchored, and that the Stortinget was behind Norwegian participation in the operation. The UN Security Council Resolutions 1970 and 1973 are historic. They state that a country’s authorities are responsible for protecting its own population from abuse and confirm that the use of military force against its own population can be considered a threat to international peace and security. Norway has long worked to ensure that the UN Charter principle of non-interference cannot stand in the way of international intervention in order to protect the population from massive abuses by its own rulers. This principle has now been further reinforced by these decisions of the UN Security Council. For Norway, it is important that these developments take place within the framework of the United Nations and do not become a pretext for individual countries and groups to settle without a mandate under international law. It is also historic that the international community, having determined that the Gaddafi regime did not intend to comply with the requirement of Resolution 1970, to stop the acts of violence against its own population, authorized the use of military measures to protect the civilian population. Resolutions 1970 and 1973 also give the international community a mandate to carry out a political process to respond to the legitimate demands of the Libyan people on protection, participation and development. The international community is encouraged to provide humanitarian assistance, while requiring humanitarian access to all those in need. On the Norwegian side, we are concerned that both the humanitarian, political and military dimensions of the resolutions are followed up and that they are seen in the context. Of course, this is demanding, and it is the whole effort that is essential to succeed. Let me add here that the UN Security Council in Resolution 1970 referred the situation in Libya to the main prosecutor of the International Criminal Court. In his first briefing for the Council last Wednesday – May 4th, he made it clear that in the coming weeks he will issue arrest orders against three people whom he believes bears the greatest responsibility for the crimes against humanity in Libya. Persons are not named, but they are assumed to be persons holding key positions in the Libyan security apparatus. According to the main prosecutor, further cases will include: for war crimes, could be promoted as the investigation progresses. The main prosecutor has also indicated that the request for a warrant may be promoted for war crimes committed by both sides of the conflict. The Board of Appeal of the Court of Justice shall decide whether the arrest orders against the persons concerned will be issued. These include: based on the opinion of the panel of judges that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the accused persons have committed crimes falling within the jurisdiction of the Court of Justice. The debate in the Security Council last week confirms that the main complainant continues to have full support in the Council for its work on the situation in Libya. Norway fully supports the important work of the Court of Justice to investigate and prosecute serious international crimes committed in Libya. The military operation in progress is extensive and includes both the protection of civilians, an air ban zone and the arms embargo. The Minister of Defence will explain the Norwegian military effort in more detail. We should remember that the 1973 resolution has no time limits. Nor have we set a deadline for Norway to support the implementation of the resolution. It is now important to show firmness in the implementation of the provisions of the resolution. Norway will continue to contribute to this. Norway’s contribution is highlighted as substantive and effective. Our military deserves commendation and recognition for their efforts. It's worth remembering it after yesterday's vet's day and day of release. It is the development of Libya that will primarily determine the duration of military operations. This has to be done to assess Norway’s further contribution. The situation in Libya is now characterised by the fact that the prospects for truce and a political solution are still unclear. Militaryly, the struggles between Gaddafi's forces and the opposition are more stagnant than in the early stages of the conflict. The forces that are faithful to the regime show greater fighting ability than many had expected. At the same time, opposition forces are evenly organised and equipped. Although Gaddafi's forces are significantly weakened, it seems that none of the parties have the means to win a military victory immediately. The struggles could last a long time, with the humanitarian and other consequences this will entail. The mandate of the United Nations is limited to the protection of civilians, not to assist military forces with regime change. Of course, we are strict about this. Norway emphasises that implementation is in line with the wording of the resolution and that military operations are not extended beyond the limits of the mandate. The NATO Foreign Minister's meeting in Berlin in mid-April laid down three conditions for the cessation of military operations — firstly, that all military attacks and threats to civilian and civilian areas must have stopped; secondly, that Gaddafi's military forces withdraw to their military spells and in a way that makes it possible to verify that this has actually happened. This requirement also applies to snipers, mercenaries and other paramilitary forces. These forces must withdraw from the areas and cities in which they are now located. The third condition is that the Gaddafi regime must allow immediate, safe and unhindered humanitarian access to all Libyans who need such assistance. These are demands by Norway, and they are in line with the views of the international contact group for Libya. A freeze of the military situation could lead to a de facto division of Libya, with one western, Gaddafi-led part and one part east ruled by the insurgents. However, both sides depreciate such a solution. Resolution 1973 also assumes that Libya remains one country. Civil protection, as mentioned, is both the purpose of the two resolutions and the core of the international commitment. Humanitarian access and security for humanitarian organisations remain a challenge. They have long had access to the eastern parts of Libya, and the UN has succeeded in negotiating an agreement on humanitarian access to the western and southern parts of the country. However, free and unimpeded access has not been achieved in practice. We saw this when the international military attacks on targets in Tripoli led to the United Nations' offices in the capital being attacked by masses of people and the UN's international staff being evacuated. Afterwards, the authorities of Tripoli have asked the United Nations to return, and they will cooperate to ensure humanitarian actors and relief convoys access to those in need. The situation of the Libyan population is difficult. The battles continue in the west, and in particular the conditions are critical in the city of Misrata. There is a great shortage of food, medicine and health professionals. Several major relief missions enter the sea, while 11,000 wounded and others with special needs have been evacuated. The armed conflict has also expanded southwards to Nafusa – the mountain areas where an increasing proportion of Libyans are now reported to cross the border with Tunisia. Reports tell of civilian deaths, abuses, refugees and an increasing shortage of goods and services. Verified data is a major challenge, especially in government-controlled areas. However, with the exception of the areas of intense fighting, there is currently no humanitarian crisis in Libya. This was also confirmed to me by the head of the International Red Cross Committee today early. The international relief organisations are in the process of storing food and medicine in the area in order to prevent such a crisis from developing in the event of the conflict. Norway was quickly out of aid for emergency work, and we have given support through both the UN, the Red Cross and other non-governmental organisations. The government has earmarked 80 million. kr. Of these, 60 million is. have been paid out to various programmes. In the first phase, the largest share has been repatriated by third-country nationals and others, mainly to the eastern part of Libya. As access to the war zones in the west is achieved, an increasing proportion of Norwegian funds will be channelled to those in need inside the country. Under 700,000 people have fled since the beginning of the conflict. Most have crossed the border of Egypt and Tunisia. Of these, 260 000 are third-country nationals. So far, almost half of these are repatriated to their homeland. I want to commend the UN and the International Organization for Migration, which, in cooperation, has done this in a fast and effective way, thus helping to prevent further deterioration of the situation. More than 30,000 have taken over the Mediterranean to Europe in the last few weeks. The main proportion so far are immigrants from Tunisia who do not qualify for refugee status. However, there is an increasing proportion of refugees fleeing Libya. Recently 5,600 people have fled from Misrata and the sea route to Lampedusa and Malta. The majority are refugees from other African countries seeking asylum. In any case, migration creates significant challenges for Europe, as we will also see in Norway. A further deterioration in the situation in Libya could lead to an even greater influx into Europe. Norway has a responsibility for solidarity, and we must help to ensure that Europe manages migration flows in a good way. Our humanitarian aid has helped people to return to their homeland. Norway has already agreed to use 90 places on the existing quota for transfer movements from Libya, mainly for third-country nationals in need of protection. Of these, 30 will be taken from the group of refugees now in Malta. In addition, it is decided to extend the quota by 250 persons to meet the need for protection in the region. Frontex Border Agency shall coordinate a joint operation at sea in the Mediterranean Sea. The flow of people across the Mediterranean has resulted in France and Italy calling for a strengthening of Frontex and amendments to the rules for the implementation of temporary internal border controls. Any amendment to the Schengen acquis must be discussed at both the European Council and the European Parliament. Through Norway's participation in Schengen cooperation, we will be able to participate in such a discussion. The international efforts to establish a political solution in Libya have so far failed to deliver results. A truce will be the first step in this process, but here are the challenges that the different actors do not agree on the conditions. The question of Gaddafi's departure as a condition for a truce is central in this context. The Libyan opposition is firmly on this requirement. Also in NATO and in the international Libya Contact Group, there is a consensus that Muammar al-Gaddafi has lost his legitimacy and must leave. The African Union working for a negotiated solution does not make his departure a prerequisite for truce and negotiations, but sees this as a natural result of the negotiations. The mandate of the Security Council does not include regime change applied from the outside. Any change in the regime and regime in Libya must come as a result of internal popular pressure in Libya. Norway, together with Denmark and Sweden, participates in the International Contact Group for Libya. It met last Thursday, May 5, in Rome, and the meeting continued to mark a broad consensus on the international community's efforts to follow up the Security Council's decisions. The Contact Group strongly supported the UN's coordinating role and stressed that the Secretary-General's Special Mission, Al-Khatib, should be a focal point for the political process towards the parties. The Contact Group called for increased pressure on the Gaddafi regime, both through policy instruments that will further isolate the regime, by tightening up the sanctions regime and continuing the military operation. Concerns were expressed about the humanitarian situation in the country and the demand for full and unhindered access to humanitarian aid was repeated. The National Transitional Council took part in the meeting and presented its proposal for a roadmap for the Libyan political process. The Contact Group agreed on a temporary mechanism to provide support to the Transitional Council for financing the immediate welfare needs they have undertaken to meet. These include: on the payment of wages and salaries. We have not yet taken a position from Norway on whether a contribution to this mechanism from the Norwegian team will be relevant, but we are concerned that this will be a responsible and transparent system in accordance with the resolutions 1970 and 1973. We've seen some tensions in the United Nations Security Council on Libya. Russia, China, India and partly South Africa have been critical of NATO’s enforcement of the resolution. There has also been criticism of the role of the Liaison Group in the follow-up to the 1973 Resolution, a responsibility that some countries in the Security Council feel can only lie with the Council itself. This is an expression of the different interests, traditions and assessments that prevail among the members of the Council, but maintaining this would be unfortunate for the effectiveness and effectiveness of the Council. The developments on the ground and the international differences of opinion have given Gaddafi a short hand. The situation is characterized by a standstill that can only be resolved by moving along the political trail. It is therefore essential to intensify efforts to bring together international consensus on a roadmap for the further process. Norway is actively working on this, bilaterally towards neighbouring countries and through multilateral organisations. It is also important that the two most concerned regional organisations, the African Union and the Arab League, play a central role in this work. Muammar al-Gaddafi has built up and based his leadership on split and rule, where different ethnic and other groups are played out against each other. There has been no distinction between the regime and the state, there are few state institutions, and civil society is almost non-existent. It is therefore not surprising that the opposition is diverse and fragmented. It also means that a political solution and a new and, hopefully, more democratic Libya must embrace a wide range of political actors in Libyan society. Political changes must come as a result of political processes in Libya, and the role of international society must be to support them. As part of this work, contact with all parties to the conflict, including the National Transitional Council, which brings together the Libyan opposition, is important. There is reason to believe that this Council will play a central role for a period until a new constitution has been established, supported by all important groupings, and elections have been held. The Transitional Council has already attracted former ministers of Gaddafi's government, including the Minister of Justice and the Minister of the Interior, and has also been supported by several former Libyan ambassadors, including the UN Ambassador until unrest broke out. Also several former high-ranking officers have joined the opposition. I would like to stress that Norway does not «recognize» the transitional Council on international law, but that we are dealing with this grouping that brings together the Libyan opposition forces. From today's point of view, there seems to be three possibilities for the way forward, if we ignore a division of Libya between Gaddafi's forces in the west and the opposition in the east, which is a solution both sides reject. The first option involves the continuation of the Gaddafi regime. I think that this is unlikely both because of the increasing resistance to Gaddafi, the international isolation of the regime and the gradual weakening of the military force of the regime. The second option involves overcoming Gaddafi's regime militarily, and the opposition taking over power. The third option could be a negotiated solution between the opposition and the current regime based on a ceasefire with subsequent negotiations on political power-sharing. My point is this: no matter which of the last two solutions, the new rulers will need international assistance and support. It may include the political transition process, reconstruction work, humanitarian efforts, the establishment of state institutions and the rule of law, the reform of the security sector and the development of civil society organisations. In addition, some form of military presence may be needed to monitor a truce agreement. The Secretary-General of the United Nations has started work on the role of the United Nations and international society after the completion of the fighting and a political solution. It is too early to conclude at this point, but it is important that we take into account that the international civil effort could be long-term. During my speech to the UN Human Rights Council in Geneva on 28 February this year, long before the resolutions were adopted, I pointed out from the Norwegian side that a vacuum of power in Libya will serve no one and could be dangerous to the whole of North Africa. I called on the UN Security Council to think through how the UN and the international community can play a role in contributing to democracy and stability and ensuring respect for human rights in Libya. We will support the UN planning for such a responsibility, in cooperation with the regional organisations. Finally, back to the regional rug and how the situation in Libya arose. It was inspired by what Tunisians and Egyptians had achieved from changes in their countries — neighbors to Libya — that citizens went out into the streets of Benghazi, Tripoli and in a number of other cities in Libya to demand democratic participation and respect for fundamental human rights also in Libya. But the authorities met the peoples' peaceful demonstrations of ruthless, brutal violence. Also in other Arab countries, in what is called the Arab Spring, the authorities are trying to defeat people's desire for democracy and freedom with power. Norway has condemned the use of violence in Syria, Bahrain and Yemen, and we will condemn this elsewhere. We say that the authorities must listen to the people, allow free speech and peaceful demonstrations. The solutions exist through democratic participation, cooperation and respect for human rights. Regimes that put in their military apparatus against civilians lose their legitimacy. In such situations, the international community must consider imposing penalties. The countries in the region are different, but they share a problem that can be linked to authoritarian regimes, widespread corruption, nepotism, major social differences and violations of human rights. All countries are challenged, but they handle the situation differently. Developments are dramatic, as in Europe after 1989. In Jordan and Morocco, demonstrations are allowed and reform processes are initiated. In Egypt and Tunisia, the Heads of State had to leave before a credible process could begin. Norway continues to monitor developments closely, and we have regular contacts with authorities and democratic forces in these countries. We are present and being listened to, given our contacts and networks, and we are ready to support the democratic process. An optimistic long-term scenario for the major changes in North Africa and the Middle East is a move towards more democratic regimes that respect the legitimate rights and requirements of their peoples. This will reduce the level of conflict and tension in the region and trigger resources for reforms and increased economic and social development and justice. All in all, this will also increase stability. Developments in this direction could also facilitate the resolution of long-term conflicts in the regions. But the way forward is long. The revolutions in Europe in 1989 really took many years. In the Balkans, we still see posthumous things. There may be setbacks along the way and situations of vacuum of power and chaos. At the same time, there are signs that we are witnessing a watershed in North Africa and the history of the Middle East, and that over time we are seeing a more positive development in many countries in the region. This wave should help us and the international community to push forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e228	Then I follow up, and I'm also happy to be able to inform you about the military effort. One week after the UN Security Council of 17 March adopted Resolution 1973 to protect the Libyan civilian population from the attack of the Gaddafi regime, a Norwegian contribution of six F-16 fighter aircraft with supporting elements was notified to the broadly-combined international coalition force Odyssey Dawn. With the base in Souda Bay in Crete, the Norwegian planes have participated in military operations in Libya since March 24 and from March 30 the Norwegian force has joined the NATO Unified Protector. The mandate of NATO is the same as the mandate of Odyssey Dawn: the enforcement of the UN Security Council Resolution 1973, which opens up the use of all the means necessary for the protection of civilians in Libya, with the exception of occupying forces in Libya. Gaddafi has an explicit goal of using violence against his own people, who started their campaign for democratic reforms in the form of peaceful demonstrations. On the basis of Resolution 1973, Norway takes part in the responsibility for halting the massive abuse of the Libyan regime against its own population. We have, together with our allies, stopped attacks on Benghazi and other areas where Libya's population has been threatened and directly attacked by the regime forces. The Norwegian forces have helped to prevent major suffering, and Gaddafi’s military capability to hit the civilian population is now significantly reduced. We have every reason to be proud of our efforts now approx. 140 men and women participating in the Norwegian F-16 contribution. The same applies to Norwegian staff participating in other functions, including: in NATO airborne control and alerts and the responsible NATO commands. Norwegian staff perform a demanding task in a professional way, and are receiving recognition from our allies. Let me be clear: there is no military solution to the situation in Libya – it must be resolved politically. But it was and is absolutely necessary to have a military component that, pending political solutions, provides real physical protection for civilians. The ongoing military operations are an important part of the follow-up to the 1973 Resolution and have proved so far to be effective. Libyan air force and air defence are severely weakened, and the offensive capabilities threatening the civilian population, especially in the east of the country, are reduced. We see clear signs of wear on the regime side, which is expressed, among other things. in failing loyalty to Gaddafi among the central tribal leaders, and that several of his closest supporters have jumped off. At the same time, I would like to stress that the future of Libya is still unclear. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has pointed out, there is a real danger that the conflict may be locked up, and that we may risk a de facto two-thirds of the country. At the same time, we must be prepared for a rapid change in the situation. So far, there is little evidence that Gaddafi has changed his intention to hit his own people by using violence. The regime has also shown the ability to adapt its military strategy, including: by using civil vehicles, which makes the tasks of NATO forces more demanding. For the time being, it is necessary to continue the military operations against regime forces threatening the civilian population, in parallel with the pursuit of a political solution. We still have to expect high intensity in military operations for some time to come. The Norwegian military effort must be seen in the light of NATO's overall strategy, and I would like to take this opportunity to give the Storting a clear picture of NATO's operation Unified Protector. The operation is carried out in three parts: ground air operations to prevent Libyan forces from violating the civilian population, the enforcement of the flight ban zone and the enforcement of the arms embargo. Different countries contribute to different parts of the operation. In addition to a number of NATO countries, several partner countries contribute to the operation, including countries such as Sweden, Jordan, United Arab Emirates and Qatar. A total of 18 countries participate in Unified Protector with about 200 aircraft and 20 marine vessels. While the marine vessels are mainly engaged in the arms embargo, the aircraft are used for a variety of tasks. Examples include ground bombing, reconnaissance and target selection, ground enforcement, helicopter rescue, electronic warfare and logistic flights. In other words, the air-ground role in which Norwegian aeroplanes participate is only one of the tasks required to implement the operational plan. In the air-ground role, 10 countries now contribute: Denmark, Belgium, the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, Italy, United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Norway. It is important that we see the various contributions in a whole, where all the forces contribute to the common objective of following up on Resolution 1973. In order for Norwegian aircraft to achieve their assigned objectives, they depend entirely on the efforts of other nations. Examples include the use of various manned and unmanned aircraft for the verification of civil presence or other internationally protected objects in the vicinity of targets. We also rely on important support capacities, such as air-to-air refuelling, command and control platforms, reconnaissance resources and intelligence analysis. This applies before, during and after the mission. The NATO Operation Plan is divided into three main phases. Initially, the focus was on various ground-based military units and installations that posed an immediate threat to the civilian population. There is now a phase in which more attention is focused on strategic objectives that affect the ability of the regime to command, control and management. The final phase will focus on ensuring that the regime complies with the Security Council resolutions in the longer term. All in all, NATO has now flown about 5,700 missions, of which 2,000 are missions that intend to take off the ground. However, these figures do not include measures implemented nationally by some countries. Norwegian F-16 has flown a total of 315 missions, 34 of which during Odyssey Dawn, and together has released 289 bombs, 19 of which in the Odyssey Dawn operation. I can confirm that both movable military capacities, such as tanks, and fixed installations such as command and liaison stations, weapons warehouses and air protection have been removed from Norwegian forces. The government shares the view of an almost united world society that Gaddafi has lost all political legitimacy. However, it is important to stress that this is not the same as NATO going in with military vigilance to actively and purposefully provide for a regime change in Libya. We don't. Gaddafi himself is not a legitimate goal. There are several reasons why Norwegian forces have been able to play a central role in the air-ground part of the NATO operation. Our planes are among the most suitable to use weapons against defined targets. We have timely material, relevant weapons and a well-trained workforce and are therefore often preferred by the operational management. The delivery of the strength contribution has also been possible because we have a good technical status on our fighter aircraft and a solid support organisation. Because our planes have demonstrated good ability to use relevant weapons in a precise way and with the lowest possible risk of accidental damage and civilian loss, we are also among those who have been given responsibility to take out particularly complex targets. Of course, the Norwegian authorities have effective national control over the use of the Norwegian strength contribution. In the process of selecting targets, Norway is represented by competent personnel, operational and legal. Norwegian personnel are responsible for the care of national interests and obligations under international law. The list of selected targets will be carefully reviewed. In this process, there is close and good dialogue between our national representatives and NATO headquarters. This has been demonstrated by the change in target choices on some occasions following dialogue between Norwegian representatives and the operational management. In the ultimate sense, Norway always has the opportunity to say no to specific tasks. The defence operational headquarters is actively involved in the decision-making process with our local national representatives. As described in kgl. the resolution of 23 March, in the light of time pressure, was highly uncertain about the tentative cost estimate for the Norwegian strength contribution of approximately 70 million. kr. This estimate was based only on experience data from participation in previous operations with similar strength contributions. Furthermore, the tentative cost estimate did not include costs of ammunition and other variable costs, such as flight hours. The actual basic costs of the Norwegian strength contribution have been estimated at 83 million. kr. This includes personnel costs, operating costs in the area of operation, after-supply transports, deployment and redeployment. Until now, the Norwegian planes have flown over 1,300 hours. The extra flight hours required to carry out our mission in Libya are estimated at 94 million. kr. This includes maintenance costs and service supplies. As far as ammunition costs are concerned, we are only half way through during the warehousing period, and it is, of course, difficult to predict exactly how much ammunition will be used at the end of the three months. On the basis of the estimate so far and a rough estimate for the remaining period, it is estimated that the ammunition costs will amount to 84 million. kr. As the Libyan mission has evolved, there has been a need for a higher number of Norwegian flight hours than would be necessary to provide training flights at home. After a thorough review, it has now been estimated that the additional costs of the Norwegian contribution will amount to a total of 261 million. kr. The Government intends to promote a Royal Resolution on the costs of the Norwegian strength contribution later this week. Proposals for additional appropriations will then be promoted in the revised national budget. NATO has initially established operational plans for three months for operation Unified Protector. It is essential that the use of military power be seen in the context of the other instruments, as explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and that the role of NATO in the future underpins the objective of the resolution. NATO member states are united on the decision to launch operation Unified Protector. It is important that the alliance appears credible and united, and the government will continue to work for broad participation among NATO Member States and other contributing countries. It is still too early to conclude on and, where appropriate, how Norway should contribute militarily after the current deployment period. The current Norwegian strength contribution carries out a demanding task and the intensity of the operations is high. Norway is a relatively small country, with limited military resources. Although there is still uncertainty about the situation in Libya, we have to expect that NATO's operation will gradually move into a new phase, where the need for fighter aircraft in an air-ground role will be less than today. Norway will, of course, support all parts of the 1973 resolution to weaken Gaddafi’s ability to hit the civilian population. Military instruments need to be seen in the context of civil action, including sanctions and other instruments, as stated by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Norway has contributed much in the initial phases of the operation, both in Odyssey Dawn and Unified Protector. If NATO decides to continue the operation after 24 June, any Norwegian contribution will be different and less extensive than the current contribution. However, Norway will of course continue to support the implementation of Resolution 1973. The government will return to Stortinget with further plans for Norwegian intervention in good time before the end of the three-month period. The government wants as much transparency as possible around Norwegian and allied efforts in Libya to comply with Resolution 1973. With regard to the military effort, I can tell you how many and what kind of mission the Norwegian strength contribution is carrying out. At the same time, it is essential that due consideration be given to personnel and other safety-related matters. I can therefore not go into the details related to individual targets. The world community showed action and reacted quickly to prevent massive civil suffering in Libya. Civil and military action together has contributed to weakening the capacity of the Gaddafi regime to hit its own population significantly, and we can be proud that Norway is taking its share of the responsibility to comply with the UN Security Council Resolution 1973. The situation in Libya is still complex and unclear, and the government is following developments closely. We will maintain close dialogue with our allies on how to maintain efforts to protect Libya's civilian population in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e270	The President will now propose, pursuant to the second paragraph of Paragraph 34a of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, that a short comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each group of parties and, where appropriate, final statements from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e275	I would like to thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for the thorough presentation of the situation in Libya and the Norwegian contribution to the implementation of the UN resolutions. The debate on our contributions can only be conducted on the basis of the commitment of all Member States to follow up the UN decisions. Norway has worked actively to ensure that the sovereignty of a country does not hinder international intervention by the UN in order to protect the population from abuse. Then we could not fail to set up when we were asked for it. At the same time, we see how demanding it is to fulfil the mandates of the resolutions. The grounding zone is established. The military capacity of Gaddafi is clearly weakened. But the fights continue. They will be able to last a long time, with the humanitarian consequences this will have. It is therefore important, as both Councils stress, that a political solution is also being pursued. It's probably the only thing that can bring out. The world community faced a difficult situation when the Libyan rebels took to arms and Gaddafi threatened to retaliate against the population. For the first time, there was agreement on a UN resolution which provided for the protection of the civilian population by all the necessary means, except occupation. In the Question Time the day before the Security Council decision, the Foreign Minister was strongly criticised by the opposition to be too concerned about analysing the complexity of an air ban zone. The opposition requested an action. Now we've had several weeks of action, and the situation in Libya is most undecided. It underlines the importance of thorough thought and good analysis. We all share the desire for a regime change in Libya. Gaddafi's time is up. He has no legitimacy. However, the UN resolution does not mandate to assist the rebels in order to achieve their objectives. It is important that this is respected. If the mandate is extended and abused, it will be much more difficult to reach agreement within the UN Security Council next time. It is therefore necessary to establish a common understanding of what the United Nations mandate involves. Our participation in the operation also gives us a voice in it, which must be used to work towards respect for the wording of the United Nations resolution and its borders, as both the Councils underline when it comes to Norwegian contributions. The Foreign Minister touched on the dilemma we all feel when we see that the violations against the civilian population we wanted to prevent in Libya are now unfolding in Syria. Many hundreds of demonstrators who have not seized arms have been killed. The EU, the United States and others have imposed a few penalties. But it has not been possible to reach an agreement within the United Nations to put an overall international pressure on the regime in Damascus. The brutality we now see unfolding in Syria and Libya is a reminder of how demanding it really is for the international community to intervene and effectively protect the population from abuse, when the rulers of the country themselves are the perpetrators. The Norwegian pilots' efforts have rightly gained recognition, and I stand behind it. But at the same time, I want to warn you against the idea that we're just doing the job. So there's about 200 planes in action, only six are Norwegian. They have flown a larger proportion of the total tokens than the number required, but nine other countries are also participating in the air-ground operations. In other words, our planes are part of a large and complex military team, as the Minister of Defence pointed out. As time passes and the political solution fails, naturally attention is given to how long it will last. NATO has set plans for three months. What needs exist if there is still no political solution within that time is difficult to predict today. The obligations to comply with the UN resolution will remain there. But we have made a heavy contribution in this first phase. From a burden-sharing point of view, it would be natural for a possible continued Norwegian military contribution to be different and less extensive, as the Minister of Defence said. But that's what we have to decide when we get that far. Let us not forget that the solution to the Libyan crisis lies in the political processes. If these are to be presented, it is wise that some decisions be taken only when they are needed and not before. Then we must not forget that there is and will be a need for other types of contributions – not least on the humanitarian side, where we are also contributing now. And we have to be prepared to continue the contributions when the situation is more clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e312	I would like to thank both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for their presentations. We support the main features of the presentations. We supported the decision to send planes. And we stand by our support. We cannot expect everyone to agree on a decision to send Norwegian aircraft in this type of demanding action. It is a democratic right to oppose and ask the demanding questions. But if it serves this matter that the critical debate is being heard within the government's own ranks, it is less likely. In our opinion, this only creates root and confusion. At least we have to expect the government to support the government. SV wants the planes home, preferably as soon as possible, but no matter if a few weeks. And then they want brokers in place. SV's own State Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs believes that what Norway is doing in Libya can be contrary to international law. Another State Secretary in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, from another party, believes that there is no basis for negotiating with Gaddafi, and is quoted as saying that the invasion of Libya is straightforward. Now I think we all understand that this is what is going on here today, which is the government's official line. But this kind of outrageous behaviour, by people involved in the same government project, is not only strange; it bears the mark of a government that cracks on important foreign policy issues. You'd think that after more than five years together you had practice dealing with disagreements, but as soon as there's a question that includes NATO and participation in international operations, you can't quite jump your legs, and you stumble from the first day. The Minister of Knowledge, the party leader from SV, would not have a NATO-led operation, while the rest of the government just wanted this. That's how you keep going, for a general view. This is not a particularly beautiful view, either in Norway or in the part of the outside world that should be interested in it. However, I am glad that the confusion here at home does not affect the professional Norwegian soldiers who carry out a demanding job of complying with the Security Council resolution for Libya. They deserve our support. Gaddafi is the problem for the civilian population in Libya, and the sooner he is managed, the sooner we can talk about some sort of stabilisation. Now it's not that there's an alternative clear and waiting to take power in Libya. There are several cuttings in the sea. Therefore, armaments support and money support for the opposition are a significant risk project. The Arab League, which initially was very supportive of NATO, and the African Union must be expected to take responsibility in the future. Otherwise, this memory of a dungeon where Arab and African countries invite people far away to clear up their garden, and then they even run away when the job is done. Now, fortunately, there are a few exceptions, as the Minister of Defence was about to say. We have no problems with Norway being very active in this mission. With regard to the additional costs of the mission, we look forward to and expect this to be fully covered outside the already narrow framework of the defence budget. The argument put forward in the Class Battle today, that a longer engagement will affect the Defence in North Norway, is important to take on board, but must be seen most as an argument to strengthen the Defence in general and the Air Force in particular and shows how vulnerable the Norwegian defence is when we participate in this type of military engagement with a relatively limited number of planes. Otherwise, we support the government's decision on emergency aid to Libya. We are also concerned about the refugee situation and support the measures that the government has to take, not least to support those countries in the region and in the neighbourhood that are now facing a special burden of receiving refugees.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e339	Norway joined Libya with our allies to enforce a UN resolution and a decision of the UN Security Council. We're in the middle of the assignment, and it's useful to remember the background for this. Muammar al-Gaddafi was very clear that he would show no mercy when he came to go from house to house, from room to room in Benghazi and take those who expressed rebellion and opposition to his regime. There is a clear international legal basis for the operation in which Norway participates. It is in our own interest to contribute, also because it is in Norway's interest as a small country to help create a predictable and rule-driven world order. Such a world legal order can only be built on the UN Charter and through the UN Security Council. It is very important to stress that the enforcement of this type of decision cannot be up to other countries alone. Norway shall contribute and contribute actively. Right-wing support for Norway’s participation in Libya, and we still do. We also support the proposals for additional appropriations that will have to be made in the context of the revised national budget. So we want to be involved in fulfilling our share of the obligation to enforce a Security Council resolution. When, for the first time — and historically — the Security Council concluded that a resolution could be drawn up that expressed military instruments for the protection of civilians, it is an obligation for a country such as Norway to set up. But it is also important to stress that there will be a time after the military instruments, where, in particular, the humanitarian aspect will be very important. There are already some major sufferings in many parts of Libya, and you also have to take this on board. From the right, we end up with the statement made by the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the more regional context, and therefore I am not going to go into it more carefully, simply because it is well explained. Now, in the future of the mission, there's once again reason to stress that we're now in the middle. As both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs explained, many things have been accomplished, and many things have been achieved through the Norwegian forces. They have had a special responsibility for some of the most complex and demanding operations, and their efforts reap great praise from our allies, precisely because they have been able to do this mission in a very good and effective way. Our forces involved in the actions of Libya deserve both recognition and support. But it is with some wonder that you can read the reports from SV's national government meeting this weekend. There have been many and clear reports that SV would prefer to withdraw the aeroplanes from the operation immediately – and if not immediately, so at least when this three-month period is over. State Secretary Ingrid Fiskaa has been out of office several times, both at the national meeting of the SV and at the national board meeting of the SV, with statements indicating that there is a complete gap in the government regarding the attitude to Norway’s mission. The State Secretary said at the national government meeting this weekend: ‘Shall we continue to bomb for six more weeks so that things do not happen that we will prevent? I don't think the situation will have changed very much in a month and a half. Shall we continue to support the United Kingdom and France that openly say the goal is to direct Gadafi?’ There were also clear reminders from the national government meeting that it was thought that the military had gone beyond the mandate to protect the civilian population, i.e. that the mandate would be broken. It is very serious that a Secretary of State in a Norwegian government does not have the ability to separate its roles and thus contribute to creating doubt and undermining what is Norway’s position. The government needs to clean this up as soon as possible. Ingrid Fiska is not primarily a central government member in SV. She is primarily the Secretary of State of the nation of Norway. It's important to be aware of. When it comes to the last Minister of Defence said, it is quite right, as she says, that we must be prepared for rapid changes in the situation. She also says that the regime shows no sign of going away from violence, and that it is too early to say how Norway should contribute, and whether Norway should contribute after the three months are over. Then she finally says: NATO’s decision to continue will in that case mean that Norway’s contribution will be ‘another and less extensive’. In this context, the Right has expressed that it would be unwise to decide now that you should not contribute in the same way or in a different way than what you have done in the past, simply because we don't know anything about the situation in six weeks. In this context, it would be interesting to ask the Minister of Defence in his last speech to explain what has been reported to NATO about Norway’s possible contribution after the last three months.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e366	I want to thank you for two good deals. The UN Resolutions 1970 and 1973 establish the responsibility of the international community to protect the Libyan people. The Gaddafi regime's extensive attack on civilians and threats of eradicating the political opposition in Benghazi gave legitimate reasons to use the UN sanction, including military power, against the dictatorship. Developments in Libya have shown that there is still a need for an international commitment to protect civilians in Libya. SV insists that Norway must contribute to this, following a decision at the SV National Council on the weekend. I want to ask the representatives from the Right and the Advance Party to breathe deeply, sit in front of the web and read through the decision SV did on the weekend. The situation in Libya is serious. Many civilians are protected, but still the situation is critical in some areas. The struggles between the Gaddafi dictatorship and the rebel army are locked. The civil losses in the conflict are significant, and so are the challenges Libya faces humanitarianally. I would like to stress the importance of Norway's bidreg here, as the government is now proposing, with both humanitarian assistance and the reception of refugees. I also note when it comes to military contributions, that the Minister of Defence clarifies that after 24 June ‘any Norwegian contribution will be different and less extensive than the present contribution’. At the same time, I would like to stress that it is the situation and the needs of Libya that must govern the final assessment here, just as it must govern the political and humanitarian contributions, and how we should follow up the implementation of Resolution 1973. The SV National Assembly adopted support for the military aspects of Norway’s contribution to Libya, while maintaining the strict mandate of the United Nations Resolution to protect civilians. In recent times, both attacks on members of the Gaddafi family and announcements by some leaders have given cause for concern. Now both the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Foreign Affairs stress that the mandate for the operation is to protect civilians, not to assist military forces with regime change, and that Norway adheres strictly to it. It is important to maintain a separation between civil and military objectives, but it is also important for future international opening up of the objective of protecting civilians. If the mandate is now hijacked for another purpose, we will give Russia, China and other critics the right and reduce the chance of a consensus that can protect civilians in the Security Council in the future. Let me be clear about it: SV, Norway and most of the world want regime change in Libya. That's why there's been a rare agreement to open a case against Gaddafi before the International Criminal Court. He is a brutal leader who has exercised power against his own people, and stands without any legitimacy. But as the Foreign Minister said: ‘Policy changes must come as a result of political processes in Libya, and the role of the international community must be to support them.’ There is a difference between the political objective and the mandate of the military operation. Only political processes and solutions can bring lasting peace and protection of human rights in Libya. Unfortunately, important negotiating initiatives have so far not been made. However, it is important that these initiatives continue. Norway must actively work for peace initiatives, still under UN leadership. It is important that, among other things: The African Union and the Arab League – i.e. the main regional organisations – can continue to play a role. So I'm going to conclude by saying that the background of what is now happening in Libya is the popular democratic revolutions, the uprising, in the Middle East. There is an important reason why I have, for SVs, support, but also that it is possible to achieve an international consensus on the two UN resolutions. Now we must not leave popular forces in other countries in the region in the mire, in the shadow of what is happening in Libya. In Bahrain, Yemen, Syria and other countries, there have been major demonstrations, and in the three countries mentioned, brutal abuses against the civilian population. The world needs to support the forces of popular democracy, we need to assess sanctions where it makes sense in relation to what is happening and where it is possible to gather wide international support for it. The brutal truth is that the West has allowed dictators and regimes to sit down because stability is more important than democracy and change in the region. The time has now come for a completely different western approach to the whole region and uncompromising support for the democratic forces of all the countries of the Middle East.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e395	No matter what the representatives of Höglund or Eriksen Soreide say, the government stands together, and the government parties here in Stortinget stand together. It has shown the two posts from the government parties, and my post will also confirm that view. Decisions on the use of military power are the most serious decisions a government can make, and they are naturally heavy to take. The decision to go into Libya, along with the international coalition, was no exception in that way, but it was in our opinion right. The crucial thing for our support for the use of our aircraft in Libya was the decision of the United Nations Security Council, which gave a unambiguous mandate to use a wide range of instruments to protect civilians, and the broad resolution had, not least from Arab countries, that an intervention was necessary. A strong uprising about the UN is a supporter of Norwegian foreign policy. It is in the interests of Norway and the world that the UN is as strong and as powerful as possible. The UN mandate given in the context of the Libyan crisis was a watershed in the history of the United Nations when it comes to using the responsibility-to-protect doctrine. The UN mandate was given by ten votes in favour and five abstentions. No country vetoed, and no one voted against. Looking at the historical position of the Security Council on intervention or interference in internal affairs, this is a historic decision. The UN demonstrated political power in a very demanding situation. However, since the United Nations does not have its own military forces, the ability to put the Security Council's decisions to life depends on the Member States' own making up with military capabilities. By making our forces available for the operation, we have helped to strengthen the UN. Our goal has always been that military action lasts as short as possible and that a political solution is found to the crisis. At the time we entered Libya, this was the country – among the Arab regimes that had until then been challenged by their own people through this dramatic winter – where the authorities had reacted most violently and acted most threateningly. Colonel al-Gaddafi clearly signaled both with words and actions that he intended to perpetrate and kill his own people. The quotes from Gaddafi before the international operation testified that he was willing to go very far to maintain power. Now we're in a second phase of the uprising, where Gaddafi's regime, because of the international actions, has weakened its military impact, and thus its ability to use military instruments against its own population. It's just positive. Through the efforts of the Norwegian Air Force, Norway has done a great job to help weaken Gaddafi’s military impact. We've been assigned many and heavy assignments because we have a good air force, good planes with good pilots who can work. The fact that, in an initial phase, we have taken a responsibility in the international operation that far exceeds our relative size in terms of military impact, we believe that we are laying the foundation for a more withdrawn military role. Most likely there will also be other needs in the phase that we're about to enter. While our military contribution has been great, we have stepped up our humanitarian efforts to ensure that the Libyan population receives food, medicine and water. Heavy humanitarian efforts are essential in order to achieve the objective of helping civilians. At the beginning of April Norway granted an additional 30 million. NOK in addition to the 50 million. NOK that we had already granted. The humanitarian need is unmistakable, and efforts must last a long time after the flashlights have been switched off and military operations completed. We as big people have been together about the military. It is important that, in the years to come, we also agree on strong humanitarian efforts in the areas that are now affected by the disaster we are witnessing, and that we also take responsibility for the refugee situation that has arisen by various means. Gaddafi has, through his threats and abuses against the Libyan population, lost his legitimacy as leader, and should go off. But the UN mandate on which the operation is based has its foundation in the protection of civilians, not in dedicating the regime of Gaddafi. It's my hope that Gaddafi realizes as quickly as possible what the world has seen for a long time, that he no longer manages Libya. But this can only be the result of a political process, not a military action. Finally, civilians are affected by acts of war and weapons use. Let us hope that a ceasefire and a political solution will be reached as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e421	I would like to begin by thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence for their presentations. The view of the Christian People's Party is clear. We support the UN resolution in 1973. We support Norway's contribution to the international military operation, and it is a good Norwegian tradition that we provide humanitarian aid to refugees from the war zone. Since New Year's, we have experienced that the civilian population of one Arab state after another has risen in massive popular protests against authoritarian regimes. People have demanded freedom and democracy. In Tunisia and Egypt, the heads of state had to leave. Democratic reforms are now under way. We see a new Arab spring. It gives hope to a region that has suffered for a long time under a poor Arab rule tradition. Also in Libya the people have risen, but unfortunately the country has a dictator who treats his country as if it were his own property. Muammar al-Gaddafi has shown that he is willing to use violence against his own people if they do not want to bow to his police state. When the regime launched its heavy fire to crush the uprising in the last big city, Benghazi, the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1973. It gives the UN Member States a mandate under international law to ‘all means’ to protect the civilian population in Libya. The UN resolution has been supported by both the Arab League and the African Union. It is positive – and it is happening despite the influence Gaddafi has bought in African countries through investments paid by Libya’s oil revenues. A coalition of states, based in the United Nations Resolution, has deployed air forces to stop Gaddafi's killing of their own people. Norway is acting quickly. The deployment of the Norwegian fighter aircraft took place with cross-political support. The government could and should have consulted the bodies of Storting earlier, so that the planes were not sent down until the matter was discussed in a meeting. However, Norway’s contribution has been fully supported. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to commend the efforts of the Norwegian pilots and ground crews. They have carried out demanding tasks. Norway’s defences deserve the approval of professionalism and the ability to respond quickly. When such war situations arise, we have a tradition of both providing humanitarian aid in the neighbourhood, and when the situation requires it, also giving asylum in Norway to refugees in need of protection. When the government follows the humanitarian tradition of our country, it has the support of the Christian People's Party. It is valuable when the Storing is able to stand united behind national efforts in demanding international operations. The ambiguity that we have seen in the last few days has not come from the opposition, but from a government party. As a government partner, the Socialist Left Party is responsible for sending Norwegian planes down to war operations and for the bombing they have contributed. That responsibility must learn to live with and in, and end with double communication and thus also give political signals that a responsible government party cannot and should not give. If the contributors of the military operation now warn that they are withdrawing the planes, there would be a gift package for the dictator Gaddafi. It can renew faith in him and his armsmen that they can consolidate their tyrannical regime. We must not now make hasty conclusions as to what contribution the situation requires when the three-month period expires. We have to assess that – in conjunction with our allies – when the time is right. Nothing would be more pleasant than that development makes less need for military action. It's peace with justice we seek. But let's not now give signals that undermine the chance of a good outcome in Libya. That is why the Christian People's Party is pleased with the clear signals of Foreign Minister Gahr Støre put to the bottom of this point in his presentation, for the best thing would be that Gaddafi chooses to go off, and that a forward-looking political solution is being negotiated. Libya's people too are entitled to a rule of law with democracy and human rights – that is, the third option of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. The worst thing is, as we see it, that Gaddafi continues to oppress the people and suppress people's righteous reform demands with brutal violence. Norway must act as a responsible member of the international community. We need to focus on UN resolutions and follow international law, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out. That is why the Christian People’s Party supports the main lines that the government has outlined today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e449	First, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the Councils for their briefing, and I would like to take the opportunity to thank the soldiers for the work they do for us here. It is important that this debate is in Stortingen, because we should never take lightly the tasks we have sent people out to do after decisions made in this room. If we've done everything formally right, it's also true that we have debates in the main hall in the areas that people see as important. I just have to make a little comment on Battle Violence Vedum: It may be that from the point of view of Battle Violence Vedum, the unity of the government seems bombastic and clear. It's probably primarily for us who are outside the government that the government doesn't seem so bombastic and clear when it comes to statements made in the media. The basis for the decision made in the Great Britain to send troops and participate in this international operation was that we saw an Arab our rise with democracy in very many Arab countries, to which it is important for us to stimulate. But when a dictator does not let this spring come to his country, but threatens his people to shoot them, as it is said here, gate for street and room for space, the international community should also stand up for Arab countries. I think it's vital for our common struggle for democracy and democratic values around the world that we stand for each other when these values try to get foothold and grow. We don't know if they're going to succeed, but we know at least that if we hadn't cared, the double morals of the Western world would have been very glamorous and present to many who feel that they have sacrificed their freedom, while the Western countries haven't cared. Then I'll give the Minister of Defense credit for transparency in relation to the job we're doing. That's what I think she's going to stretch towards at all times. Having openness I think is important to remove both speculation and other theories. But it's also about giving credit to the soldiers for the job they're doing. I am also pleased that the Council of State confirms that Gaddafi sea is not a legitimate objective. That seems to me to be an important emphasis. According to the UN resolution, he is to be brought to justice for his actions, and I do not believe that Norway should have a role in which we believe that the heads of state or terrorist networks should be taken out, as it is called military. I believe that the principle should be that we strive for everyone to be held responsible for their actions. Two small things that I think you should bring with you – first of all, I am very pleased that the government has turned around and said that you are willing to accept refugees from this area, and that you stress solidarity. Because it's actually not that refugee problems are just arising from whispering campaigns in Mogadishu. It actually arises from acts of war and the fact that people have unsustainable humanitarian situations. Therefore, Norwegian refugee policy should also be characterised by addressing the international challenges. Secondly, we in the Left would like to stress that it is important that the participation we have is adapted and carried out in a dialogue with all the actors in the region, both with the Arab League and with the African Union. It is also important that we do not say a date when we are going to withdraw, but that it is actually the result of our cooperation partners, the three mentioned, and the situation in the country, for us it is important that a revision of Norwegian participation is based on both the objective of the UN Resolutions, the situation in Libya, all the cooperation partners and not Norwegian domestic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e467	First of all, I would like to thank the support for the military efforts that Norway is making to comply with Resolution 1973. Our soldiers are making an important effort, which deserves our recognition and support. On the basis of a clear UN mandate, Norway takes its share of the responsibility to stop the massive abuse of the Libyan regime against its own population, and we will continue to do so. The government will work to maintain broad participation from NATO Member States as well as partner countries in the future military efforts. This is important not least to show the outside world that NATO is united to follow up the resolution in a credible way. In the coming weeks, thorough discussions will be held in NATO on the further strategy of the Alliance. If NATO decides to continue operation Unified Protector after 24 June, any Norwegian contribution, as I mentioned, will be different and less extensive than today's contribution. Norway is a relatively small country with limited military resources, and we have contributed much in the initial phases of NATO’s operation. We cannot be expected to maintain our efforts over time at the same level as today. However, it is still too early to conclude on and, where appropriate, how Norway should contribute after the current period. The contribution does not weaken our domestic preparedness. Our defence has contributed to the operation in a very good way, and we are getting to confirm the quality of the Air Force as very good. Of course, I also have a dialogue with the head of defence on these issues. The current Norwegian strength contribution to Unified Protector is of high quality, and we also gain recognition from our allies for their efforts. As I mentioned, the government will propose that additional costs be allocated in the revised national budget. The government is following developments closely, and we will come back to Stortinget with further plans for Norwegian efforts in good time before the end of this three-month period. I don't know if it was meant that way, but the committee leader asked me to explain what we have submitted, and what we intend to do. At the same time, I also heard a warning: it would be unwise to decide what Norway should contribute before it is necessary. Therefore, I can only confirm what I have already said, that we are following this carefully and are planning to get back to Stortinget in good time before the end of the three-month period. Of course, we maintain a close dialogue with our allies on how to maintain efforts to protect Libya's civilian population in the future. I can also assure you that Norwegian F-16 aircraft with support capacities were not left to Odyssey Dawn command until after both the consultations with Stortinget and kgl. the resolution was implemented and the aeroplanes left Norwegian soil for the first time under national command.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e484	I would like to thank you for this debate, and the message from the Norwegian big business to the international community, to our allies, to our partners, to the UN and to those who carry out the operation, is that a total increase is behind the operation, behind the lines we plan for today's operation and further work. Norway complies with the obligations laid down in the 1973 Security Council Resolution. There is no time limit in the 1973 Security Council Resolution, nor is there a time limit in Norwegian support for the implementation of this Resolution. We will continue to contribute, and we will in no way create uncertainty about the pressure to be held through the military operation. It's important to experience it together. How we will contribute beyond 24 June, after the three months, will be discussed, as the Minister of Defence has explained, as we approach that date. As the representative, Mr Solhjell, said, it must be the situation on the ground in Libya that is crucial to that assessment, not internal discussions here in particular. Then we have to listen to professional military advice. It's important. We need to assess Norwegian capacities, and we need to coordinate with our partners. That dialogue is ongoing, and we will keep Stortinget informed. When we say that it will be a less extensive contribution, it is natural from the very extensive contribution we have made from the first hour. However, in that assessment, no capacity by definition will be excluded. We have to look at the whole picture, and Norway will go into it with taking its responsibilities very seriously. Then there have been questions about one or the other voice that has discussed and had counter-conceptions at one and the other meeting of one and the other party, especially in one party. I would like to say that in a situation where all parties stand behind a military operation abroad, and that is desirable, a kind of dilemma arises also for the democratic change of words. Around such a difficult and demanding operation as this is, with so many dilemmas, it cannot be that we cannot have debate and critical questions in the parties about the consensus we are manifesting today in the Stortinget – which is the signal from Norway, from the government, with the support of the Stortinget. After all, it is all the parties that are the channels for political debate towards political decisions. Then I believe that we can actually live very well with the fact that there are such debates in the parties. That's where they should go. There were people who wanted a bombastic and clear attitude from the government. The attitude should be clear, but I think in this situation it's not wise that it's bombastic. Everyone is discussing the complexity of this operation. No one sits with a fasitant response, and we have to wisely try to figure out what's right for us. Then we have to try to coordinate it with the rest. I fully recognise the opposition’s right to point out different views of the government parties, but they themselves have to choose the profile they will make of such a discussion, when there is no doubt about what the government stands for, what is signalled by the Norwegian Government, the Norwegian Minister of State, Foreign Affairs and Defence – and now from a total increase. As you can see, this debate has been a good one. There is a comprehensive Norwegian political environment behind our operation. We'll come back to Stortinget when and if there's any change in the contribution we're making.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e495	The debate on substance is closed. 1 is over. The President will propose that the statements by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Defence on the situation in Libya and Norwegian efforts be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e515	There is growing concern about Russia’s development, both in Norway and in the rest of Europe. The Committee was visiting Russia earlier this year, and there are quite clear signs of danger from Russian civil society about the situation and how it develops. I have also recently been to Berlin and had conversations with my German counterparts, and there are very many who are concerned about Russia's development. We know that the tusk of power Putin-Medvedev has its very clear sides that limit civil society and human rights. And so there's a strong fear that this will only increase in scope. The domestic policy situation in Russia is partly transparent, but partly untransparent. It has to do with the structures of power that lie on the outside, not always representative of what is actually happening. For example, President Medvedev has talked a lot about modernisation and liberalisation in the years he has been President, but so far no concrete results have been seen. When the committee was travelling in Russia, we had many conversations with Russian NGOs, and they expressed concern in many areas. Let me just represent some of the points that we were told. Firstly, there are signs that the Russian people have been pushed further and further away from decisions, elections and participation. There are far fewer leaders who are now elected and are increasingly being designated. This applies primarily to the leaders of the Kremlin. We also see a clear trend that new generations of Russians feel that governments do not respond to their social and economic needs. It has also brought with it expressions such as nationalism and access to the many things referred to as racial riots in different places in Russia. We know that there are major challenges in Russian society. It's a lifetime that's now down to 59 years on average for men. And there are many people who have pointed out that this is a challenge that has been known for a long time, but where not much has been done. So in addition, the birth rate and birth rates are going down. We know that there are major demographic challenges that can in this way achieve Russian civil society in not too long. It is a health and education system that does not meet its objectives, and it is particularly evident that many people send their children – and their money – out of the country to take education because they lack faith in the system. The health system has more or less collapsed, and we see that there are major challenges in dealing with some basic problems in many places. It is a major corruption problem that is inherent in Russia, and not least that strong political power is firmly established both in the judiciary and in the economy. I want to go so far as to say that our interlocutors in Russia were clear that there is not really an existing legal system in Russia at present that can be trusted to take decisions that have a fair impact both within Russia's borders and, for example, within Russia's borders. to non-resident investors. This is a major challenge that has not been solved in the short term. We see human rights violations. We see persecution and killing journalists. We see a unemployment rate that's between 8 and 9 pst on paper, but that's probably much larger. One of the important reasons for this is that in Russia it is about. 1000 so-called monotowns, i.e. major places and cities where there is only one large enterprise. If you get unemployed there, there are not so many alternatives but to move – and the prospects are usually not very good if you move either. That is why many people leave out of work because they know it doesn't matter anyway. There are many conflicting signals coming from the Russian community, but there is little doubt that there seems to be some developments that mark it quite clearly, such as corruption and economic collapse. Suffering if there has now been a small economic upturn for 2010, after a rather large fall in 2009, nevertheless, there is a rather strong tendency that there may be a strong breakdown in the economy. What you can also see is that the reforms announced, the modernisation announced, have been postponed because it was seen to be a certain increase last year. The need to modernise is assumed to be small, so you continue as before. This means that there are many structural changes that should have been made and that are not being made — in particular, the issue of human rights and the issue of persecution, killing journalists and a small and restricted civil society. One of our interlocutors said that the legislation against differing patterns is made of rubber. This means that it is made and bent in all directions in order to be able to adapt to the individual situation, so that you get a kind of law enforcement to captivate oppositionals and people who think differently. There is an ever closer economic and political cooperation between Norway and Russia, and that is a good tone. Not least, the dividing line agreement, which we just set up, is a very good example of that. There are good developments. This can, to some extent, counteract the other side of it, namely the negative trends. But it also makes us more vulnerable to these negative trends, because we may see a more unpredictable, more monolithic political leadership, which is not dampened by political moderate forces or structures in a civil society. There is particular reason for concern about what now appears to be a rather systematic prison and disappearance of journalists, political opponents and different attitudes. One of the danger signals that was specifically addressed in our conversations was just the upcoming OL in Sochi, where you can see that the OL-city itself is very close to areas where there has been a lot of trouble and unrest. Now, there's an even harder impact on the oppositionals, the people who think differently, because you want to avoid trouble, as you call it, in connection with the Olympics. That was a lot of the same thing you saw in front of Beijing-OL. In the opinion of many, this has given Russian authorities an opportunity to use the Terrorist Act, to use it as an instrument to defeat the opposition, as an instrument for further tightening. If we compare some of the things we talked about in the previous case, namely the Arab Spring, then there are many developments in Russian civil society that are identifiable with what you see elsewhere, for example. Middle East and North Africa. There is a strong call for a greater degree of human rights, a greater degree of democracy and the possibility of participation. That's also what many say is a rather weak and fragile democracy without any real content. One of the people we talked to when the committee was in Brussels and Geneva last year, pointed out, as I was a little bit behind in my introduction, that they often have the formal, external structures, but the content is somewhat more unknown. They have the democratic structures, but they have no democratic content. The question is why there are no similar discussions in Russia that have been seen in the Middle East and North Africa. Many point to the fact that the population composition is different. While the Egyptian age pyramid shows that the average age is 24 years, the Russian age pyramid is completely opposite – the average age is 42, which is higher. Many people believe that the lack of a very young generation means that there is less clear and clear evidence of rebellion against human rights violations and a lack of democracy and civil society in Russia. The question in the interpellation was also about how Norway works to build up positive flows — civil society, NGOs and others that help to try to solve these problems that can only be solved in the long term, as it appears. I look forward to hearing the Foreign Minister say more about it. It will also be interesting to hear what assessments he makes of the situation both now and in the future, precisely because Russia is an important partner for Norway, a partner in which we rely on a stable and long-term relationship, but which not least takes into account that the problems that are now in Russian society are something we as a neighbour and a good partner also have to address.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e547	The representative, Eriksen Soreide, addresses a major and important question in this interview. As a neighbouring country with many common challenges and opportunities, especially in the north, the development of Russia is of great interest to us, and we are following it closely. The interpellant assumes that fundamental human rights are under pressure in today's Russia and that civil society, the media and the judiciary are weakened. There is no doubt that Russia is facing a number of challenges. However, before we discuss the situation in more detail, we have to conclude that much better progress has been made when we compare many decades with one-party rule. Significant progress has been made in the last 20 years, but at the same time we see several alarming developments. The control of opposition and civil society by central authorities is strong. A basic trust between people and authorities, as we know from our own country, is weak in Russia. New legislation for non-governmental organisations and security services provides authorities with access to control of the activities of non-governmental organisations. This is a worrying trend we see in several countries in this region. The law on security services was clearly criticised by the rapporteurs of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly in January of this year, precisely because it can be used so easily against the opposition or persons criticising the authorities. In spite of this, we see examples of movements growing. Such a movement is the so-called Strategy 31, which arranges demonstrations on the 31st day of the month. The name refers to paragraph 31 of the Russian Constitution, which guarantees the right to free assembly. There have been government reactions to the movement of a slightly different character. In some cases, authorities have refused permission for demonstrations, counter-demonstrations have been organised and demonstrators have been arrested in some cases. But the movement has broad support, and the form of action has spread, even outside Moscow. From the Norwegian side, we point out that a strong and active civil society is a strength. Long-term stability, as we have been reminded of the last months from completely different edges of the world, on which the interpellant was in, is best ensured by active participation and free exchange of views from all parts of the population. Despite strong control, Russia is seeing increasing public debate on societal challenges. Much of the debate takes place on the Internet, in blogs or as a comment on articles. Parts of the Russian press are frilling and critical, especially for individual online newspapers. At the same time, Russia is ranked low on international press freedom indexes, for example: as the 143rd of 175 countries in the overview of Reporters Without Borders. In 2010, 12 journalists were killed, and 58 physical attacks were recorded. The brutal attack on journalist Kasjin on November 6th last year is one example. The unsolved killing of Anna Politkovskaya is a symbol of this alarming phenomenon. One of Russia's biggest challenges is the difficult situation in North Caucasus. Terrorism by rebel groups and violence by the security forces affects the civilian population. Collective punishments, disappearances and torture are widespread, and there is almost impunity for crimes, especially in Chechnya. That there is a continuing violation of human rights, we clearly see that by 31 March this year, the European Court of Human Rights had 41,900 open complaints against Russia, many of which are from the North Caucasus. The Court has ruled against Russia in 120 cases involving human rights abuses during anti-terrorism operations in Chechnya between 1999 and 2003. At the same time, Russia has a legitimate need to combat terrorism originating in North Caucasus, terrorism that has repeatedly affected the population throughout Russia. On our side, we clearly point out that the fight against terrorism must be done with full respect for human rights. In the long term, a balanced approach is needed, where measures to promote economic and social development in the long term are as important as combating terrorism in the short term. Another main challenge is lack of legal certainty and corruption. This has been underlined by the country's leadership itself. President Medvedev himself said in a speech on 31 March this year: ‘The grip of corruption is not weakened, it keeps the entire economy after its neck. The result is obvious: money is escaping from our economy." It is correctly observed. In addition, corruption's contribution to violence and weakening the position of political power. Predictable framework conditions are of great importance for international investment and are essential for Russia to implement the modernisation work undertaken by President Medvedev. Norway is happy to contribute, and we have entered into a partnership with Russia on modernisation. If this is to happen over time, Russia must strengthen legal certainty and fight corruption. The Interpellant refers to the upcoming Presidential elections in 2012 as a benchmark for Russia's progress. I agree. It will be important for the further development of Russian democracy that the forthcoming elections both at a new national assembly in December of this year and the presidential elections in March of next year are held in line with its international commitments – that elections are free, that candidates can present themselves openly and freely, and that the freedom of assembly and expression is fully valid. Russia should also look at the fact that the elections this time are widely observed, and then in the first row of the OSCE’s Office for Democracy and Human Rights – ODIHR. In addition, I am sure that the Assembly of Parliaments in both the OSCE and the Council of Europe, where Norway has actively participating representatives of gross domestic product, will contribute with observers, as they have done in the past. The signals from Moscow regarding democracy and human rights are mixed, if I may say so. Through several opinions and reform initiatives, Mr Medvedev himself has shown a clear recognition of the need for change. He said, for example. in his video blog 23. November last year interesting enough: ‘It is no secret that during a period of our political life it has begun to show symptoms of standstill, there has been a danger that stability will contribute to stagnation. And such a stand is as devastating for the government party as for the opposition. If the opposition does not have the least opportunity to win an honest fight, it will be demolished and marginalised. [[so]] And if the government party doesn't have any place and never has any chance of losing, then it will just "become bronze" and eventually it will also fall due, like any living organism that no longer moves." I quoted the Russian president because his statement testifies to a openness, but at the same time it shows that much is at stake if the country's top leader does not have the power to do anything about the problem he actually mentions. But we also see positive steps. The attack on journalist Kasjin triggered reactions in Moscow, and proposals were made for stricter penalties for attacks on journalists. Furthermore, in January 2009, the defendants were found guilty of the murder of the human rights lawyer Markelov and Novaja Gazeta journalist Baburova in Moscow. Proposals to stop Skype, Gmail and Hotmail were recently rejected by the Kremlin. Russia is about to accede to the Council of Europe Convention against the bribery of foreign public officials. In addition, a number of other measures against corruption during deployment include: control of the revenues of politicians and officials and better regulation of instability. Let's look again at developments in perspective: all of this would be unimaginable more than 20 years ago. Russia places great emphasis on cooperation in the Council of Europe and shows visible progress in fulfilling the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. The Norwegian-initiated Human Rights Fund in the Council of Europe has contributed to the work of the North Caucasus, which is valued by the Russian authorities. It is in our interest that Russia, like other countries, is anchored and ‘banded’ in close international cooperation. Therefore, Norway is working for close and good cooperation with Russia in the UN, NATO, the OSCE and the Council of Europe, as well as supporting Russian accession to the WTO and the OECD. Through membership of the Council of Europe, Russia has undertaken a wide range of obligations and is committed to monitoring and follow-up in line with other Member States. This is positive. Similarly, cooperation in the OSCE continues to develop. Last year's Astana Summit reaffirmed that democracy and human rights affect all participating countries and cannot be regarded as internal affairs. In the United Nations, both Norway and Russia currently have seats in the Human Rights Council and work closely with several countries to strengthen, among others. Corporate human rights responsibilities – a process led by Norway. The relationship with Russia is of strategic importance for Norway. Several of the challenges in the north can only be met in cooperation with Russia, and opportunities can best be exploited in cooperation, which will also be a theme of the government's forthcoming North Sea Communication. The government therefore places a constant and high emphasis on further development of relations with Russia, with special attention to the north-west areas. The four-year presidential visit and the agreement on the demarcation agreement were thus a milestone. Our policy towards Russia promotes cooperation, commitment and dialogue, bilaterally and in multilateral forums. We're experiencing an open and constructive tone. Of course, cooperation faces challenges. But from both countries, there is a willingness to find good solutions in difficult matters. Good cooperation and frequent contact have created confidence and a platform for dialogue also on difficult issues such as human rights, legal certainty and democracy. We don't just meet Russia at the authority level. Cooperation is broad and covers everything from fisheries and shipbuilding to research, culture and opera. Through contact, ideas, attitudes and values are exchanged. This is very important in the long term. Norwegian authorities support many forms of technical cooperation and cooperation projects between Norwegian and Russian non-governmental organisations. It helps increase contact points between Norway and Russia and strengthen civil society in Russia. In North Caucasus, Norway allocates 30 million annually. to projects contributing to the promotion of human rights, legal certainty, reintegration and good governance. So Norway will pursue its contacts with Russia to influence developments in the right direction — bilateral, regional and international. Some point out that Russia is in a transitional phase, that it is still in progress. It is therefore in our interest to work actively and specifically to ensure that this transition is as good and positive as possible so that Russia can take its place among Europe's democracies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e614	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. I think we share a lot of the same analysis of the situation in Russia. When I attended the Air Force Seminar in Trondheim in February, there was one of the analysts there with good Russian knowledge who referred to Russia as the somewhat unstable neighbor on the other side of the fence, and I think that is a pretty good picture. There is a lot going in the right direction in Russia, but there are also many things that make our attention very much needed to address specific human rights issues. The Minister of Foreign Affairs himself mentions many of the features that go in the wrong direction, and I think it is important that the Norwegian authorities are quite clear on how to get involved Russian authorities on these issues. We have a very good bilateral relationship with Russia, and it extends across many fields. That's good. So that means that we have a broad cooperation, which means that the possibilities of dealing with these kinds of questions should also be present. There may be room for an even more systematic human rights exposure in relation to Russia, and I would like to highlight two things in particular. One is to engage official Russia in the follow-up, among others. judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and also resolutions of the Council of Europe. We had, as said, conversations when we were in Russia, and the ones we talked to there were very concerned about the need to have a real dialogue that must involve the Russian authorities, because that is where the problem is essentially sitting. They were actually concerned that it was better with no dialogue than a pro forma dialogue. The second is to increase cooperation and support for human rights organisations and the media, those who actually contribute to driving development forward. Human rights defenders know many of us from Russia, and it is also important that we be able to support them. It is those who will also become influential if at some point the regime that is now sitting is going to break up. Then there's a lot of concrete things you can do. You know, for example. that the Helsinki Committee operates on three lines in particular: human rights monitoring, project support and human rights education. And it is quite possible for Norwegian authorities to turn a lot of their support towards this, precisely because these are important things that can help improve the human rights situation in Russia. It is in clear Norwegian interest, and it is not least of interest to citizens of Russia, who today feel that civil society is shrinking, and that human rights are not universal. They experience arbitrariness and abuse of power, and we as a neighbouring country should try to help improve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e631	There were many good points from the committee's chairman, and I feel that we have them all on our agenda. The meeting plan for my part next week illustrates a bit of that contact network. Tomorrow, there is the Council of Europe ministerial meeting, where we will look at both reforms of the structures of the Council of Europe and the implementation of the commitments made by the States. As I was in my post, there is something that Russia stands at the heart of all the pending cases, and the judgments that have come from the Court of Justice. The next meeting is an Arctic Council meeting in Greenland, which will discuss cooperation in the Arctic areas. Here, Russia and Norway are two out of eight countries, and we work among others. with civil society, indigenous peoples, etc. – major arenas. It leads me to this with civil society. Eriksen Soreide mentioned the Helsinki Committee. There are others. They are, in their own way, important actors for Norway. They're not going to be dictated by any authorities, but we can back up under their commitment, their networks and make it absolutely clear that they're going to be allowed to operate. Among other things, I have repeatedly mentioned with my Russian colleague that the head of the Helsinki Committee does not receive a visa to Russia. There is an unsustainable situation, and it is not possible for anyone in Norway to understand that it would be contrary to any guideline. So we have concrete examples to deal with, and we take them up, without shyness. We're going to keep doing that. At the same time, I believe that one of the challenges, which the representative was also faced, is the climate to which Russia is going in order to bring about reforms. That's what has to be the big and crucial question. Today there is little doubt that the toothpick Putin-Medvedev has great support in Russia. But then the question is, are the conditions for democracy and human rights so that people actually get expressed and can choose between what they prefer? Then, at my discretion, we have to balance, on the one hand, the recognition and understanding that Russia is, after many, many decades of communist one-party rule, and, on the other hand, a completely different political culture, so such things take time – and on the other hand, to be impatient and point out that Russia has its responsibilities that they have to follow up. I believe that the integration of these organisations, from the WTO and the OECD to the structures of the Council of Europe, are important pieces of puzzles in what we can contribute from the outside. I also dare to believe that what we have of human contact in the northern regions – investments and others progressing in bilateral cooperation – is also a long-term contribution to the situation of civil, and human rights, in Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e644	Thanks to the interpellant for raising a debate on an important topic, and to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for a balanced presentation of developments in Russia – a development that brings both positive and alarming features. So there's no simple answer to the questions that the interpellation is raising. As a neighbouring country to Russia, it is important that we have close contact and can cooperate on issues of common interest. It requires that we understand each other and respect our different starting points, both in history and experience. Increased contact between people on both sides of the border, measures such as border crossing certificates and joint health projects, to mention something, are important contributions to such contact and understanding. The visit of the Foreign Affairs Committee to Moscow recently left an important insight: Russia cannot be understood through our own political reference glasses. Both history and close experience are important points of reference. The Soviet Union was dismantled, and Russia almost went into disintegration as a society in the transition from communist plan economy to planless capitalism. In a part of the world characterized by deep integration, Russia is an actor who sees the parallelogram of power as a zero-sum game – a country that does not believe that a win-win option can be created by indicating some of its sovereignty. We saw it clearly in the suspicion that the unanimity in Norway around the part-line agreement created in Russia. There is no doubt that Russia is facing a number of challenges: economic renewal is lacking. Central authorities have a strong grip on the media, the judiciary and civil society. Following the introduction of NGO legislation in 2006, many NGOs experience that their working conditions have become more difficult. During a seminar in the NUPI last week on ‘New Roads for Russian Civil Society’, this was one of the themes. It stressed that Russian civil society actors must also take their share of responsibility for development. Too often, local NGOs have ended up working more on the priorities of Western donors than on the needs of Russian society. It creates widespread scepticism for NGOs based on Western ideology and funding. It is also interesting that surveys show that people in general have more confidence in local authorities than in non-governmental organisations. So the memories of the forced volunteering of the days of the Soviet Union are still alive. But that's also positive signs. The Kremlin has increasingly recognised that parts of civil society can play an important role in relieving authorities in their work. This is particularly true for the health and care sectors, where Russian authorities are now earmarking funds distributed among different organisations. The construction of crisis centres has taken place with external support, but has nevertheless been able to link close informal links with authorities, health professionals and the judiciary. In Russian context, the crisis centre movement appears to be a success story. In the debate on NGOs, it is likely to be fruitful to distinguish between those contributing in line with the priorities of the Authority, for example: in the health sector, and those working in more controversial areas, such as the environment, human rights and socio-critical journalism. The development of human rights does not give rise to optimism. As we have seen from other parts of the world, terrorist actions lead to security measures by the government that are easily in conflict with fundamental human rights. Specially challenging is the development of North Caucasus, where the conflict between rebels and regimes seems to spread. The high number of judges against Russia in the European Court of Human Rights shows serious violations of international obligations, especially in Chechnya. This underlines the need for a special focus on the human rights situation in that area. The free word does not have good conditions in today's Russia. So Medvedev's repeated warnings against the censorship of mass media have not penetrated the Russian society. It's worrying. It is also a good step forward before legal certainty is ensured, and the fight against corruption has been won. If we look at Russia's behaviour in international contexts, progress is more positive. The agreement on the northern divider line shows Russian willingness to comply with international conventions. Cooperation in the Barents region, in the Baltic Sea and in contact with the Russian authorities through the Nordic Council is consistently constructive. Russian action in the UN during the examination of the Libyan resolution underpins the impression of a great power with ambitions to play a constructive role. Interpellant questions how Norway can work to influence a positive trend. I think the answer lies in what the Minister for Foreign Affairs also pointed to – and I would like to stress – among other things. through people-to-people cooperation, the development of mutual understanding, the exchange of experience and information, as well as a realistic and constructive dialogue with political authorities. In this way, Norway can make its main contribution to peaceful development in our part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e681	I would first also like to thank the interpellant for having an important debate. I have not heard anything in this debate that I have not agreed to. I can essentially sign everything that has been said. I have no reason or need to try to change the color of the description of Russia by the inter-pellant – nor by the Minister of Foreign Affairs. But the question is, What are the political consequences of this? So what do you do? I share what has been said that the support we give in relation to civil society can mean a lot and make a good contribution, and there are many actors, many channels, that do a lot of good. Finding themes to criticize Russia is not necessarily very difficult. It is not the most demanding exercise – rather the opposite. In the right context, this must be carried out either at a high political level or at a lower level. But if it's a wise strategy to set up its Russia exposure with mainly critical glasses, I don't think – not for Norway, and I don't think that's what changes the situation for Russia and for Russia's people either. I am convinced that Norway can make a positive contribution to Russia's future. But I think this can happen primarily by long-term work, by the power of the example, and by engaging in a broad and close relationship. We already have good cooperation in areas such as fisheries, the Arctic, energy, the environment, etc. You can always discuss how good this cooperation is, but it is still closer. In my view, not least in our common border region, cooperation is an example of how to deal with a state such as Russia. I believe in closer networks. I believe in the exchange of students, the exchange of young people, the exchange of business, between institutions and people, and that it will open up a Russia that has been historically closed. I know a lot of Russians who live and work in Norway. It is mainly well-educated, relatively young people. Most people would like to admit weaknesses and shortcomings in Russia, but one can basically be surprised that the criticism is not stronger than it is, and that the enthusiasm for Norwegian society is not as overwhelming as a Norwegian might think. I guess that's a little bit of a reality. It was earlier in the debate about the parallel, that we might be able to hope for some of the Arab spring in Russia, and that, among other things, this. is a challenge to demography. That's probably true, but it's probably a little bit of a mentality challenge. The Russians don't see our values of openness, freedom of the press, freedom of expression and the principal considerations around it in the same way that we do, and that we appreciate in our society. That's a little bit of a challenge. They admit their weaknesses, but they may not see the same need for change. So it becomes a little bit of a work of uphill and long-term patience. We're in a destiny geographically. We can't ignore that. We are not going to in any way to dissociate ourselves from our neighbourship with Russia, but we are going to cultivate that neighbourhood and hope that Russia ultimately moves into good democratic traditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e696	International efforts to promote democracy and human rights are, in the view of the Christian People's Party, an important foreign policy task. In this context, there is good reason for us to keep ourselves well informed about domestic policy developments in Russia. I would therefore like to thank the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Eriksen Soreide, for raising this gap and thanking the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. It is important to focus attention on the development of the civil society corps in our large neighbouring country in the east, not least in terms of legal certainty and freedom of the press and freedom of expression. I assume this is a common concern for all of us who view foreign policy as something more than promoting Norwegian special interests, but who will also have a strong value-based involvement in foreign policy. The UN Declaration of Human Rights and its Conventions have made these rights universal. Each individual is entitled to them, and the States are responsible for safeguarding the citizens of these rights. This applies to all countries. As far as Russia is concerned, we must be able to enjoy the great leap in a positive direction that was taken when communism was abandoned and the country opened up to the rest of the world through Gorbachev's glass nost, and the major reforms that have since been carried out. However, there is no doubt that there are also worrying features regarding freedom of expression, freedom of the press and legal certainty in Russia, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs did not hide either. Following the collapse of communism, the Russian population experienced poor governance and partially poorly implemented privatisation reforms. Some are able to secure large assets in a short time. But very many experienced greater social insecurity, tighter conditions and increased disparities. There is also no historical tradition of democracy in our sense of the word to bring about in Russia. In such factors, we will probably find some of the explanation that it has been easy to play on the need for a strong leader, and that many unfortunately accept that restrictions are placed on freedoms that we take for granted. We have sadly noticed that several of Russia's courageous voices in the fight for human rights and freedom of expression have been killed. And we haven't always been equally impressed by the authorities' efforts to settle matters and put them in charge of justice. There is, to put it mildly, a significant potential for improvement. So what can we do from the Norwegian side? We have international cooperation bodies where it is natural to discuss developments. It's been inside. Both the Council of Europe, the OSCE and the UN Human Rights Council are examples of this. We can also bilaterally address the human rights situation in intergovernmental contacts at different levels. We all have to be clear in this area. Increased public contact also offers new opportunities. Both tourism, business cooperation and people-to-people projects can contribute to mutual cultural exchanges. We can disseminate experiences, knowledge and ideas — in short, show in practice values that we want to live up to. We support human rights organisations and environmental organisations. It is important that free voices criticise corruption and abuse of power. Russia's democracy will function better if the diversity of voices of civil society is freely expressed. Then independent media is an important key. A diverse and free civil society has an important democratic function. There must be a vigil to public authorities and other centres of power. This promotes the dissemination of power and the balances of power upon which all democratic societies depend. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we will therefore take a broad perspective on how we can promote such values internationally – and in our relationship with Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e722	Firstly, I would like to sincerely and sincerely thank the interpellant for raising such an important topic in the main hall. The left has addressed human rights, legal certainty, freedom of expression and anti-corruption work in a number of other contexts that have also dealt with Russia, and I think it is time for us to take it up in its breadth. I think it is important, as the Foreign Minister says, that we should make demands, and that we should not endanger the abuses we are witnessing. I want to be a little concrete towards the end, so I will give the Foreign Minister some good tips on things he can address. Corruption-building systems are also involved in undermining trade between Norway and Russia and undermining the possibility for Norwegian companies to participate equally in a constructive and fruitful trade activity between countries. We know that democracy also leads to increased growth and prosperity, so I hope that it can provide the basis for a greater understanding of the fundamental principles of democracy. I think I've quoted him before from this pulpit, a good Russian friend who uses to say that there are some words that should stand alone, such as. the word ‘democracy’. Putting something in front of it is a dramatic weakening of it and changing its content. Therefore, there is nothing called ‘Russian democracy’. It is the same as putting ‘electric’ in front of ‘chair’. Left has a sister party in Russia that we have close contact with. The party leader of our sister party, Yabloko, was visiting our country meeting in Trondheim a few weeks ago. They experience persecution in their political work against corruption, for environmental protection and for freedom of expression. They have experienced that three party members have been killed in their fight. Larissa Yudina, who was a journalist in Kalmykia and the one who really rolled up scandals associated with corruption in the local government, was killed. Yuri Shchekochikhin, one of Russia's top journalists and a member of the Yabloko parliament, was also killed. Farid Babayev, who was also in Yabloko, first candidate in Dagestan and human rights activist, experienced the same thing. In March, a large group of members from our sister party in the Krasnodar area experienced persecution and arrest because they pointed out the governor's expropriation of public property to his own cabin building. And in Tula, Mr Yabloko's Member of Parliament has been arrested for pointing out corruption in the rapporteur. Our sister party leader, Sergei Mitrokhin, who was visiting our national meeting, has experienced several persecutions and arrests just to participate in peaceful demonstrations. Yesterday we received a message from our sister party that our party leader had again been arrested for participating in a peaceful demonstration against the development of a natural area. Our sister party leader tells us that he experienced a police officer who was both violent and intoxicated, as the entire team was arrested. Our sister party leader is now in prison waiting for a trial after that demonstration. I would like to give more tips to our foreign minister about things that can be lifted in meeting with the Russian authorities. But we should not take lightly either human rights violations, violations of freedom of expression or the fight against corruption. We're going to have some clear ideals. We're going to have a value-based foreign policy, and then we're going to stand for those values when we meet big and powerful neighbours.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e741	I think it's important that we look over to our neighbors – not just for ourselves, but also for the neighbor's woes and well. That's why such interpellations are very important. Russia is a major and important neighbour, not just for Norway, but for the whole of the Nordic region. That is why, through Nordic cooperation, we also have good contact with parliamentarians in Russia. As a member of the Bureau of the Nordic Council, I often attend meetings and talks with politicians in Russia. I see these meetings and conversations as constructive, and I want to say that the relationship between our two countries is good. I share the foreign minister's view that the situation in Russia is better than a few years ago and that dialogue is important. I think one example of good dialogue is the contact and the political craft that led to the long-mentioned part-line agreement becoming a reality. I will give tribute not only to our own government, but also to the Russian authorities for this important event. We also have parliamentary forums and networks in which Nordic parliamentarians meet Russian parliamentarians, from both national and regional levels, for discussions on important issues. I see these political gatherings as a very constructive point of contact. I feel that Russian politicians at all levels are very concerned about this contact. In February this year, the second Parliamentary Forum for the Northern Dimension was gathered to meet in Tromsø. Here were all politicians from the Nordic Council, the Western Norwegian Council, the European Parliament, the Arctic Council, the Barents Region Network, the Baltic Assembly, the indigenous peoples of the northern regions and the Baltic Sea Cooperation and the Russian Parliament and the Parliamentary Assembly in North-West Russia were represented. This was a very constructive meeting, where the commitment was great, and where a final statement was adopted at 28 points, which is clearly of great importance to the inhabitants of all our countries. The themes discussed were many and comprehensive, including: energy issues, climate, pollution, health, well-being, transport, indigenous rights and culture. These were also questions that were included in the 28 points of the final statement. The Forum particularly welcomed the partnership for culture, which is an important instrument in bringing the peoples of the north closer together. I think this is very welcome. I think that this means a lot to future cooperation and development in all areas. The Russian Federation has also undertaken to organise the third parliamentary forum in the Northern Dimension in 2013. Let me also say that together with other representatives of the Nordic Council, I recently visited the Russian nuclear power plant at Kola. There was a comprehensive review and a thorough briefing. Of course, I am not an expert on such power plants, but I saw a great deal of openness from both politicians and professionals in Russia on these important issues. I also realized that both Russian politicians and professionals really take the nuclear accident in Japan most seriously, and that they are now going through their own facilities and procedures in a comprehensive way. They have e.g. initiate new drills in the event of accidents, based on experience from Japan. I also perceive that they are now constantly working on updating all the technologies and competences, and that this is something that is anchored at all levels of Russian society. Although there are concerns related to the operation of this and other nuclear power plants, I think what we were informed and seen seemed reassuring. I trust that the Russian authorities will take this very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e768	First, I would like to thank the representative Eriksen Soreide for addressing this issue in Stortinget. As several representatives have already pointed out, developments in Russia are also very important for Norway. My focus in this debate is linked to Eriksen Soreide's question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the assessments the Minister for Foreign Affairs has of the domestic policy situation relating to civil society, and especially how we can influence it in a positive direction. I am almost sure that Russia as a great nation – both in terms of population and not least in terms of its cultural diversity – has a number of aspects that we in Norway find different. Nevertheless, I share many of the interpellant's concerns about the negative development of the country. Russia as a Federation has had a quite different story than Norway has had. From the ‘beginning of’ Norway has followed this story and has even perhaps helped to influence parts of it. East Finland, which borders on Russia, has always had long and peaceful cooperation with our great neighbour in the east. It is a story I was reminded of when the work movement in Vardø marked the 100th anniversary of May 1st markings in the city, for the first 1st May train in the city consisted of Norwegian and Russian fishermen. I would argue that cooperation in the eastern region, both on the Russian and Norwegian sides, has been important for the population. I also believe that this cooperation has laid a good foundation for national cooperation and the confidence we now have between the nations. Much of the trust we build on our cooperation, I believe, lies in how civil society in Norway and Russia perceive each other. Norway and Russia have been closely linked to the exchange of cultural expressions, trade and education ever since the Cold War. Recently, we have seen an increase in labour migration to Norway, while more Norwegian entrepreneurs and other rates are increasing in Russia. In his reply to Eriksen Soreide, the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, ‘By contact, ideas, attitudes and values are exchanged.’ It is a perception of the benefits of a people-to-people cooperation that I support. When the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee was visiting Russia, there were problems with corruption and how corruption caused problems for Norwegian business interests in Russia, some of the feedback received by the Committee. In this context, it is also important to point out that this is not only a problem for Norwegian interests but also for Russian business interests in Russia. I believe that people-to-people cooperation, especially in North-West Russia, can contribute to influencing Russia's development in a positive direction. We can do a lot as a nation at an overall political level, through different international forums, but I think that the exchange of ideas, attitudes and values is important for a positive development in Russia. Both Norwegians and Russians exchange attitudes and values with each other through daily interaction. It is therefore important that, as a nation, through the projects and cooperation agreements we have with actors in Russia, universal democratic values are used in these projects, and that we communicate the destructive and destructive effect of corruption on society as a whole. The government's North-West Russia initiative, the Northland, Troms and Finnmark County Municipality, through the Barents Secretariat, towards the same area in Russia, can, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has been involved, contribute to creating attitudes among people in Russia who are contributing to a positive development. I believe that our dialogue and our people-to-people cooperation with Russia are an important contribution to a positive development in the country. I also believe that people-to-people cooperation is the most appropriate bilateral form of cooperation for Norway when we want to influence the development of civil society in Russia. I am therefore pleased with the government's strengthened commitment to people-to-people cooperation with civil society in Russia and the Barents region.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e796	First, I would like to thank you for a good debate. There have been many engaging and insightful contributions to the debate, and I think we can sum up to say that the analysis on which the interpellation is also based, to the extent that it is shared by a fairly cross-political process. And I think we all who were in Russia on committee, got the same idea of what the big challenges actually were. This is important for Norway, because we share a 196 km land border and now a 1 750 km sea border with Russia. It is important that we have a good and clear relationship, but it is also important that we, as a close and good neighbour, who has had a long and a completely different and much better relationship with Russia than many of our European neighbours, actually also contribute to the search for the human rights situation, on the situation of civil society, which is still shrinking, on the situation of killing and persecuting journalists, and not least on the fact that in many cases the democratic structures of Russia may seem more structural than of real importance. There is cause for concern about how the situation has developed in recent years. If you look at what the Norwegian Health Commission says – and they work closely with the Russian Human Rights Organisation Memorial – then over the last few years, developments have gone in quite a negative direction. This does not mean that there have been no positive changes since the fall of the Iron Curtain and after the Soviet Union was dissolved, because it has been decided. But that means that we must be alert to the changes we are now seeing, and where Norway can contribute, both through people-to-people cooperation, support for NGOs, to civil society, to strengthening the forces of Russian society that will reform, and not least to ensuring that, in the long term – for this is a long-term work – civil society can be strengthened, a judicial system that works, an economy that is free of corruption, a health and education system that responds to the needs of the population, and that fundamental human rights are respected. In particular, this with the legal system is important to underline. No society can modernise or maintain the fundamental rights of society without a well-functioning legal system. And if the legal system is so infiltrated by political and, to the extent, economic motives that you can't trust the judicial system, it's very difficult to build a civil society that works. It is also important to stress that Norway can play a role by contributing to the forces that also want to reform the rule of law in Russia. It will be an important contribution to seeing positive developments in Russia in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e805	This has been an interesting and useful debate. One reflection that makes itself like this is that when you look at big countries in the world today, some of the greatest, who are opposed to introducing reforms, versus those reforming, I think there is a connection over time between the opportunities of these countries to bring about economic development, renewal and take advantage of the potential of the people. That's why there's cause for concern when this goes back, and we have to try to encourage it to go in the right direction. The representative Skei Grande took up some very specific single examples. I would like to encourage those examples to be communicated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It may be useful both for our embassy and for the department to have them recorded. Finally, I want to reflect a little on what the representative, Höglund, was into, and I think was an interesting reflection on what the Russians themselves think. There is no clear answer to that. I have as a habit when I'm in Russia always to visit one of these environments, and listen to them. It is a pluralist assembly – there is not necessarily a full consensus on the way society must go. But I think there is a recognition here that reforms towards democracy in Russia must be made mainly by Russians themselves. That is why I agree that we can contribute by supporting, but sometimes our debates can almost make it sound like what we are doing here in Norway, deciding how reforms will go in one country or another. Russia is of particular interest because it is our neighboring country, but it is Russians themselves who must both throw off and take on board the values they want to shape their own society. I am really hopeful, as a result of all the Russians who are in Norway today – students, those who are in exchange, business, etc. In them is also the germ of development in Russia. So I can only confirm that this is an important matter for Norwegian relations with Russia. But it is important to support civil society, and it is not least important to support the relationship between Norwegian civil society and Russian.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e814	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e820	Case No. 1, statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence on the situation in Libya and Norwegian efforts, has already been adopted, annexed to the Protocol. In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-09.ana.ud2684e947	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
