ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e98	The representative Hilde Magnusson, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. The called alternates, for Finnmark County, Ann-Kristin Engstad, and for Rogaland County, Terje Halleland, have taken their seats. The requested alternate of the Rogaland County State, Marit Amundsen, is requested to be exempted from the meeting of the representative of Øyvind Vaksdal on grounds of sickness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The third alternate, Pål Morten Borgli, is invited to meet from 22 to 24 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e129	Pål Morten Borgli is present and will take the seat. A number of permit applications are available: by Mr Andersen Eide and Mr Torfinn Opheim on leave of absence in the days of 22 and 23 February – both to take part in the second parliamentary forum of the Northern Dimension in Tromsø by representatives Svein Roald Hansen and Laila Marie Reiertsen on leave from 22 February to 24 February – both to take part in the meetings of the EFTA Parliamentary Committees in Hanoi, Vietnam by representatives Trond Helleland and Snorre Serigstad Valen on leave from 22 February to 24 February, and by representatives Thomas Breen and Sigvald Oppøen on leave in the days of 23 and 24 February – all to attend the Winter Session of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Vienna by the Workers' Party on sick leave for the representative Sverre Myrli from 22 February to 24 February and until further notice Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first representative of the Eastfold County, Stein Erik Lauvås, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget, under the authority of the representative Svein Roald Hansen, on Thursday 24 February, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of office: For Akershus County: Anita OrlundFor Buskerud County: Elizabeth SkograndFor Hedmark County: Farahnaz BahramiFor Hordaland County: Torkil ÅlandFor More and Romesdal County: Steinar Riding for Rogaland County: Laila Thorsen For Telemark County: Odin Adelsten BohmannFor South Trondelag County: Aud Herbjørg KvalvikFor Eastfold County: Stein Erik Lauvås and Kari Agerup
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e229	Anita Orlund, Elizabeth Skogrand, Torkil Åmland, Steinar Reiten, Laila Thorsen, Aud Herbjørg Kvalvik and Stein Erik Lauvås are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e237	The representative, Mr Kjønaas Kjos, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e240	On behalf of Per Arne Olsen, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Peter N. Myhre, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself, I propose the transfer of parts of Aker Hospital from Oslo University Hospital to Akershu University Hospital in order to ensure adequate hospital capacity for patients within Aarhus' extended exposure area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e245	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e259	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e270	The Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs made a very important statement about the Stortinget last Thursday – a statement that I seem to be well balanced between challenges and opportunities. Clean seas, long coasts, 40 years of experience and knowledge are important and will allow the industry to develop over the years to come. In the presentation, the Minister for Fisheries pointed out that salmon is the closest Norway to a brand. Last year 10 million meals of Norwegian salmon were eaten every day all over the world. This is the market, this is the opportunity, but at the same time the constraint. The brand product must be maintained and reinforced in order to win new margins that once again provide the basis for new market shares and future value creation. There is no doubt that the brand name is related to the state of the environment and the impact of the industry on the environment. There are two issues that are particularly challenging. First of all, the problem of salmon fever. In 2010, capacity growth was planned through increased maximum authorised biomass. This was put to rest because of the leaching situation. This was a correct and well-considered decision at the time of the decision. The Minister for Fisheries indicated in the statement that, among other things: The Institute for the Exploration of the Sea and the Veterinary Institute are carrying out research to provide the professional basis for the establishment of maximum levels for salmonid salmonids and how these should trigger measures in farms. This is important. It will provide more knowledge to follow up the sustainability strategy which points to the need to focus, in addition to action limits on farmed fish, on the relationship between the mutual impact of salmonids on farmed fish and wild salmon. Another factor is the development of resistance to available lice. The statement showed that the challenges have not yet been reversed or under control and that this is not satisfactory. Nevertheless, resistance development in Finnmark and Troms has not been reported, which suggests that these areas can be subject to other assessments. New measures, more knowledge of salmon and how to combat them will be important. I look forward to getting more knowledge about what is acceptable impact of salmonose between farmed fish and wild salmon, as in my opinion this is a very central issue. The role of food surveillance should be highlighted in this debate. The law on lice control has been considerably tightened in the last two years. The regulatory framework has given food monitoring a number of tools to address the situation. They are now authorised to impose coordinated operations, set-aside and, if necessary, depopulation on lice sites. In addition, they may establish their own control zones with stricter requirements. I believe that the enhanced tools of the Food Safety Authority will be an important buffer to ensure that the environmental pressure is kept within acceptable limits. Such instruments are absolutely necessary. They must be used to regulate the situation and it will be crucial for management in the years to come. The other relationship that's challenging is escape. There have been good efforts by industry for several years to reduce the number of escaped farmed fish. The result is a significant reduction in the number of escaped farmed salmon in rivers over the last 10 to 15 years. Then it's a paradox that the day before the presentation, 175,000 farmed salmon escaped from a mermaid on Hitra. There are more than half of the estimated total escapes in 2010. It doesn't help with a complaint from SalMar. Such events should not occur and are considered to be extremely serious. It is the breeder's responsibility to keep the fish within the mermaids. Such evacuations must be avoided. Stronger procedures are needed and much more stringent rules are also indicated. I am therefore pleased that the Minister for Fisheries has already put forward proposals for new and more stringent technical standards at the hearings. If no barriers to such events are established, a possible positive development will be made difficult, if not impossible. Therefore, the impact on breeders should be re-evaluated in the assessments that the Minister of Fisheries is now making, that the polluter-pays principle should also be strengthened in the aquaculture industry. It is desirable to allow this industry to develop and gain a capacity growth that will allow new market shares to be conquered. It is therefore important that the government's sustainability strategy be followed up, and it is reassuring that all of the 32 measures of the sustainability strategy, 29 of which are the responsibility of the Minister for Fisheries, are in place. In sum, a political follow-up to the industry, in line with what the Minister for Fisheries has said, will mean good prospects for an important industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e298	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the Council of State for the presentation given in Stortinget last Thursday. The presentation provided a good situational description of the state of the industry and also of some of the challenges facing the industry in the years ahead. But at one point I have to be allowed to express a certain kind of disappointment, and that concerns the visions for the time being: how do we intend to address some of these issues? Because it is quite obvious – at least something you have seen in the media and elsewhere – that you also have little internal problems in the government with who is to comment on what within the industry, and who is to decide. To begin with, I would like to express the following: Norwegian farming is a success industry. It's a success story. In 2010, it was, as I said, 40 years since the first successful release of farmed fish, i.e. salmon meal in mermaids. That's actually something we're going to take over. Because when we see that we've gone from zero to last year we had an export value – that was well – of 33.4 billion. kr only within this industry, it is a success story. But the media has been too much influenced by producing the industry in a negative light. In some contexts, of course, it's something that the industry itself has been involved in, but in a number of other situations, there are other things that have also been expressed. I'm going to try to point to some of the challenges, but also to what this is actually about. The chairman of the Committee was just saying that every day we only export 10 million meals of food in the salmon and trout sector. If you look at it in the light of some statements from the Minister of Agriculture in this room when he said that it is important that we become self-sufficient in food, yes, we are more than self-sufficient in food in this country. If we include other species of fish, we're up in the export of 37 million meals of food every day. I call it having satisfied the level of self-sufficiency relatively well, if I'm going to be completely honest. But then, of course, we have some challenges – you have, and this industry has had it through the years. I dare to recall the situation related to the reprocessing of the salmon mountain. If we go back a few years, FOS and what happened at that point of sale, it was a way of converting fish that very few want to go back to. At least that's for sure. We have also gone from producing 330,000 tonnes of farmed fish in 1980 to currently up to 1,000,000 tonnes. There have been a number of different investigations and NOUs within this field. The last sample in this respect is the Gullestad range, which has now come with its setting «Effective and sustainable land use in the aquaculture industry – area for desire». What is present in this investigation is relatively significant changes if it goes through and, in particular, can have significant consequences. This has now been sent to the hearing to provide feedback. What's most surprising is the composition of this sample. I made some reflections when I went through this and looked at where the individual came from: It is almost exclusively people who either come from the Directorate of Fisheries, are employed in the county, are senior advisers in the Food Authority or are from the Institute of Marine Research, from the Veterinary Institute, from the Directorate of Nature Management, etc. Where's the industry? In such an important work as this, where is the industry – even if they have made recordings along the way? Creating this type of sample without a large part of the industry is making some of these tools very quick to get into a bad light. And the most incredible thing is that it has not yet been told that at least an impact assessment should be carried out in relation to the measures proposed. I would like to say the following: if you are going to take the step of making the whole Hardangerfjord one zone, that is to say, you are going to beat the 50,000 tonnes of production we have in the internal part of Hardangerfjord today, along with the production you have in the outer boundary, today a total of 79 000 tonnes – that this whole fjord area is going to have a production of 50,000 tonnes. You're going to make this one zone and you're going to move out of this zone as well. It's not just the production in the mermaids that gets interesting, you also have to shift the production of semenoids, because it can't come from this zone and be transferred to another zone. Then my question to the Council of State, which I hope she will answer later: Where is it from the impact assessment, among other things? in the case of small and medium-sized installations? The large and heavy installations will be able to put in place a system, but looking at the small and medium-sized plants, they will not have this possibility without risking their economic failure. I expect the Council of State to give a clear indication that there will be an impact assessment on this matter. I see the time is running fast. When you only have 15 minutes on such an important matter, you don't get to say what you want – we'll see later. Let's do the wild axis. The villa is also very important for the nation of Norway. We have a number of laxative watercourses in Norway, and then it is important that we try to take care of the wildax strain we have. The big question is this: when you see the media releases, you get the impression that it is the breeding industry that is the biggest enemy of the wild. In this respect, I would just like to remind you of another sample that was very important for Norwegian salmon industry. It's the Rieber-Mohn Committee's setting, NOW 1999: 9 "For salmon no one can do?", which is just about the wild axis. In this setting it is incredibly reasonable and very good for us who are happy in the error axis. Already there, it was shown, among others. for the size of salmon stocks in wave valleys, with either short or longer oscillations. Problems related to Gyrodactylus salaris were also identified, which is not a breeding industry that has led to salmon rivers. It's actually something we as sports fishermen go with us from river to river if we don't clean the equipment properly before we go from one watercourse to another. Furthermore, it is also a very interesting remark from the Rieber-Mohn Committee on how to preserve the wild axis. The committee deals with a problem that neither the Gullestad Committee nor the government has come into, and I believe it is time to intervene. It concerns trout and the production of rainbow trout. The ear cannot multiply with the salmon. The ear can only multiply in controlled forms, the form we use in today's breeding industry. Then it's time we at least consider whether to have a difference in the level of concession, the distinction between salmon and trout. If that's the wild-axis bit you're after, you have an opportunity to give trout concessions in areas where the wild-axis population is in great danger. We don't do that today. Today you get salmon concession/dried concession, so that the individual can choose what he wants to produce. There are currently very few operators in the trout market. It is quite special, but it has to do with where the mermaids are located — where the individual species of fish thrive. To give a simple example: if today the Storfjord in More and Romesdal are converted into one zone – it is up to several trout farms, rainbow trout farms, in this fjord – it closes and says that now the plants are to be moved into a new zone, i.e. out of the coast, that is, all these plants are to be moved out of this zone and out along the coast, including the plants involved in the production of seine fish. The situation is that there are even more plants to produce salmon, because this is precisely about where the fish thrives productively. Instead, we should have done this differently, looking at what has to do with trout production inside the feathers. Let's mention the trout in e.g. Storfjorden, where there's a big part of brackish water in the spring and summer. As long as you have a large amount of fresh water in this area, it will significantly affect whether lice thrives or not. For its higher amount of fresh water, the lower the number of lice you get, because the lice do not survive in fresh water. So this we also have to go into. I hope the Council of State will look at this now, because it may be one of the measures in which we can participate and do something. So to escaped farmed fish: the committee's leader was concerned about what happened at SalMar's plant on Hitra a short time ago, where it is estimated – I repeat, it is estimated – that the number of fish that have escaped is about. Seventy-five thousand. This, of course, is a significant and major problem. So it's time for us to get some professionals to figure out the survival rate of this escaped salmon -- how many of these salmon will actually survive, and how many will swim right at sea? A very large proportion of them will actually die. It might be interesting that this also comes into the media debate that we have. Because you almost get the impression when you see the media releases, that these 175,000 salmon are going to divide along the coast and multiply by the wild axis. That's not going to be the case. I am delighted to hear the first professional in this area who actually stands up and estimates the survival rate for this escaped fish. Then I see that you put 300 yarns in the area. Unfortunately, I think what you get in those yarns, very much is the fish that is already in the area. Because the first fish to go are most likely to go out in an hour. But I'm not a professional in this field. It's going to be exciting to see what you're going to do there. It is quite clear that in this case, and in particular in this case, measures need to be taken. Because it has to do with the reputation of the entire industry. There's a number of things that we should actually do. I cannot in my wildest imagination realize that today you have not been able to find a vaccine that you can add to the feed, which makes the lice do not go on the salmon. I can't really see that. It has to do with how much one is willing to put in the funds and measures to make sure that we get to research it. When we talk about an influenza virus for us human beings, you spend from six weeks to three months finding a vaccine that you can implement and produce. We've spent a long time finding both the genome of the loop and researching this here. But it's clear that the bigger the appropriations you give this research, the more likely it is that we can get a good result. I'm going to try to bring some kind of summary of what I've said, and show that there's also an incredible amount of exciting happening within the industry. I would also like to take this opportunity to actually invite the Minister of Fisheries with me to More, where she can come and get presented with an incredibly exciting project that Nofima has developed for a company. It is linked to the production of large cephalopods in a recycling plant, where a net collects water from the deep where there is no lice, it gets into and produces in a recycling plant, so that the number of months during which the fish is standing in the sea is reduced. It is also one of the measures to reduce luxuriant fish. Furthermore, it is quite obvious that there are a number of things that we can do. I shall follow this debate with great excitement. But I just want to conclude that Norwegian farming is a success story. We politicians should also say that. We are the first entrepreneurs and those who started this industry, a great thank you. They have led Norway to considerable prosperity through what has been done and contributed to the community. Then you have challenges, and challenges exist to meet. But we also don't have to put ourselves in the situation that we're putting so much restrictions on our own industry that it's going to lose in the market now that Chile is about to recover and has plans to produce 110 000 tonnes as early as next year. I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e344	Initially, I would also like to thank the Council of State for the presentation – a statement of content not many would disagree with. Anyway, that's the thing we might have to deal with here. The message that the Council of State is basing its political mission on the round formulations of Soria Moria II should probably worry more than calm people in the industry. From the outside, it can sometimes be wondered whether all three government parties have read the same statement. In the farming industry, many people ask questions about what this government really thinks about the matter. That's when you put your trust that the government's background and working light will compensate for the strain the industry is being put on by the internal struggle of the government. The formulations in Soria Moria II sometimes appear as natural squabbles when they drown in the internal debate between the Councils of State and the Directorates. The description of the industry by the Council of State is very precise — an industry which, by virtue of its competence, has become one of the industrial history of Norway, and an industry that places Norway on the map worldwide, both in the context of breeding and breeding, but also in the context of sales and market work. Norwegian Salmon is now the nearest Norway it's going to have created a brand. It is a brand so strong that when the nutrition committee visited China and was on a small restaurant visit, we asked if it was Norwegian salmon that was served. Kelneren replied: No sir, not Norwegian salmon, only salmon, but this salmon is also good, sir. In short, it is an industry that produces amazingly good food – the most noble of all assignments. As a result of industry’s growth and success, the industry is now working in a stronger searchlight both from the public and from the media. Another is that the size and rapid growth of the industry make it put significant traces behind it. On the part of the Right and the Progressive Party, this was some of the reasons why we are asking for the presentation we are debating today. The right fully agrees that it is right and important for policy-makers to impose strict environmental requirements on the industry. It should also be pointed out, to the extent that it has been unclear, that the industry has clear politically agreed objectives to deal with. The presentation appears to be good, but a little narrow in its contents. I want to draw out some things that can make this concrete. The role of industry in the fight to preserve the wild: here we have an industry that is world leading to the exact salmon market. It is world-leading in the processing and preservation of genetic material. It is obvious to us in the Right that this competence can also be used in the conservation of the wild stocks. There is a general consensus that breeding activities cannot be blamed for all the problems of the wild species, but the problems are such that the competence of the industry will be well suited to solving many of these. We think this is an important and good contribution from the industry. Another thing that is not dealt with in the statement is the concession system. It is claimed today that the concession system is based on ecological sustainability. It is, in our opinion, a truth with great modifications. The system has its rationale as a market regulator, and that is to a large extent the way it is still functioning. The examples we've seen, with complicated and low-transparency allocation processes, are only suitable for weakening ecological sustainability, precisely because consideration for it is subordinated to the attempt to navigate through political chaos. Finally, it is strange that the Council of State is dealing with harelabs over the problems created by the administration. When different agencies and directorates question measured values, traditional methods and the suitability or credibility of agreed targets, it becomes problematic for society around dealing with them. There is reason to argue that how to organise the management of the aquaculture industry can in itself pose a risk to the environment. A thorough review of the management model would be seen by the Right as a wanted course. That's why we're wondering that the Council of State is both buttoned and silent on this particular topic. Finally, we would like to thank you on the right hand side for the presentation. It clearly shows that the Gullestad report comes in time. The report also contains many good proposals for further work. The growth, position and results of the industry show that in several fields there is a need to rethink. The industry is so important to the nation that it deserves a constructive and clear political process. For the Right, it is not important now to further debate the process. We look forward to the round of consultations following the Gullestad report, and then we shall make a constructive contribution when the various proposals come up for political debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e367	It's positive that there's been a good deal of discussion about the farming industry here in the hall. As many have noted, this is a great and important industry. It is an important export industry that has created many jobs throughout the country. The industry is also an important part of the big effort to make Norway an important exporter of seafood. Norway has natural resources for marine production, but it is important to ensure that industries such as greenhouses of our natural resources are resilient. We don't have the moral right to consume nature at the expense of future generations. Norway has, among other things: a special responsibility to take care of the North Atlantic salmon strains. Fish farming is an industry that has grown very rapidly and is now facing major challenges, as the Minister is doing well. If we do not ensure a sustainable development in the industry, there may be significant consequences for the environment, for the industry itself and for other industries. Yesterday I was in Verdal, in the north of Trundellag and discussed travel lives tied to salmon fishing. It's a national industry that makes up almost 3,000 annual works. The representatives of this industry are very concerned about the future of the wild, which is their income base. The number of salmon in many rivers has declined so much that strict restrictions have been imposed on fishing. There may be several reasons for the reduction of the wild salmon strain, but there is a broad consensus that the farming industry has a high responsibility, and when it involves the incorporation of farmed salmon into salmon farming practice, it is difficult to imagine that there is anyone other than the farming industry that can be responsible for it. The last week since then, 175,000 farmed salmon have been escaped from a plant in Trøndelag, which many people have been living in before today. This is a very high number, when you think that the perception of error is about 400,000. Thus, the number of escapes is quite large in relation to the insight we have of wild-axis. Such events must be avoided, and we must ensure that innocent third parties and the environment do not have to bear the cost of what is happening in the breeding industry. It may take some time before we can get all salmon farming into closed facilities, there are many technological approaches that need to be taken before we get there. The last huge number of escapes shows that we now need to support the development towards better technological solutions to prevent escape. Here the industry has to take far more responsibility, and the government has to make clear demands. Lacetus is a major problem for the North Atlantic salmon strain and for the industry itself. To try to keep this problem in check, a lot of medicine is used. We should know more about the impact of this drug use on the environment around plants, and it is important that we now come up with measures to reduce the lice problem. We also need to facilitate the use of less medicine to preserve the marine environment in the best possible way. It is serious when the Marine Research Institute recently found that there is a moderate or high chance that the long-term objectives of the Bear Force Strategy today have not been achieved on the route from Rogaland to Troms. It's a situation that the industry and society can't live with. Therefore, it is good that the government has said that increases in biomass are not allowed in 2011 and that strict measures are now being taken in Hardangerfjorden. I may have said that before, but I still say it again: the situation in this industry is similar to that in the process industry when I started working there at the end of the 1970s. Industry burdened the environment and met with strict environmental requirements from the public, which were met with protests from industry. But environmental requirements came, and industry took the challenge. Today, most people think that these environmental requirements are what have raised industry to a higher technological level and have increased competitiveness. That's exactly the way we have to think about it even when it's related to the farming industry. We neglect the industry, even if we are not too strict environmental requirements in the industry, which means that technological developments in the industry are being carried out, also for the industry itself and for the quality of farming. I am overconfident that today's farming industry is in a similar situation to that of the process industry a few years ago, and an offensive action to take the environmental challenges seriously is what is needed to ensure nutrition, to ensure the environment and to ensure the wild.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e389	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for the good report she gave to the Stortinge last week. The Government statement Soria Moria II states that Norway will become the world’s leading maritime economy and that further growth in the aquaculture industry will be facilitated within a sustainable framework. This means that, as a nation, we should be at the forefront of knowledge in areas such as sustainable resource use, marine environment, climate, product development and market. Marine industry is very important along the coast, but it also has challenges in relation to salmon and escape. It is therefore important that the measures of the Government’s strategy for sustainable aquaculture are followed up. The centre party is engaged in the large value creation that the aquaculture industry, also called the blue field, contributes to for the country as a whole. In 2010, Norway exported salmon to a value of 33.4 billion. kr, and the export amounted to about 10 pst. of exports from mainland Norway. The marine industry also has significant ring-effects, and overall industry contributes directly and indirectly to around 20,000 jobs throughout the country. The objective of facilitating sustainable growth for the aquaculture industry was the background to the government's decision to open up 5 pst. capacity increase in MTB in Troms and Finnmark in 2011. The centre batch supports this capacity increase. The government has also been clear on what conditions are set for growth in the farming industry. These are that the lice level must be within the limits accepted by the authorities, the development of resistance must be under control, and the other measures taken to reduce lice problems must be effective. It also supports the government’s assessment to wait until 2012 before assessing further capacity increase in the aquaculture industry. In the meantime, the industry in the rest of the country needs to spend the time properly to deal with the problems of salmon and resistance. It is crucial for the reputation of the industry. The size of companies in the aquaculture industry varies from a number of small companies with local ownership and local value creation to large listed companies. Overall, these enterprises form an important part of the industry along the coast, particularly in the districts. Many of the small aquaculture companies are locally owned family businesses which are important cornerstones of their municipalities. In the Center Party, we are particularly concerned about facilitating these smaller actors in the industry. We therefore believe that in the context of future growth in industry, emphasis should be placed on the award of new concessions, giving priority to small players contributing to local value creation. I have noticed that the Right in particular has called for us not to continue the concession award process. The Centre Party strongly disagrees. We believe that this is the best way to keep growing, which also ensures local value creation. The marine industry, like all other food production, will have an impact on the environment. The question is how strong an environmental impact we can accept – and we need to have a thorough debate on this. Here it is important that we base objective knowledge on the political balance of all aspects of the business. It is also important that measures and impositions are based on sound and knowledge-based management. The aquaculture industry is a young industry, which over 40 years has solved several challenges. Technological development is going very quickly, and I trust that the industry will address the challenges of also salmon and escape, thus ensuring sustainable development in the aquaculture industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e412	Salmon farming is a high-growth industry. As the Council pointed out, 1 million was produced. tonnes of farmed fish in 2010, equivalent to 10 million meals per day, throughout the year. But industry also has major challenges. We had very high lice in farmed fish in the autumn of 2009, and the situation had not improved in the autumn of 2010. TV2 recently reported that the total use of chemical debug chemicals was around 100 kg in the year from 2001 to 2008, but from 2008 to 2010 the use exploded, from 218 kg to 6,454 kg. Larger breeding units and more exposed sites require the development of new knowledge, improved technology, as well as more robust operations to master the lice situation and prevent escape in future salmon farming. The Christian People's Party wants a strong farming industry in Norway. Environmentally sustainable farming is fully feasible and Norway has all the prerequisites to ensure that the farming industry is world-leading in the environment. In 2009, the government presented strategies for environmentally sustainable aquaculture and sustainable seafood. Sustainability is a prerequisite for Norway to be the world leader in maritime food exports and to contribute to increasing coastal value creation. The Christian People's Party believes that it is essential that the farming industry undergoes structural changes in a short time to ensure sustainability. The farming industry must be industrialised and the government must ensure that this happens before it is too late for Norway’s wild populations and the industry itself. The breeding industry needs to be controlled and required in the same way as the former SFT, now Clif, is doing to land-based industry. The situation on the island today, as opposed to 1980, is probably the best example of the effect of clear demands. The Government’s 2009 sustainability strategy focuses on five main areas in which the farming industry affects the environment: genetic impact and escape, disease, pollution and emissions, land use and the use of feed. The five main areas have been problem areas since the start-up of the farming industry, and after 40 years of operation, it is now important for one to make actual changes. The Christian People's Party believes it must be a priority task to solve these problems by 2013 and is concerned that the government's strategy will not solve the environmental challenges until it is too late. The government’s strategy lacks clear indicators of the acceptable environmental impact of salmon farming, as well as the lack of deadlines for the implementation of the various measures. It is essential to have an overall approach to the farming industry, which takes into account both the environment, the industry and the workplace. Until now, short-term business interests have overtaken long-term sustainability considerations of nature. The Christian People's Party believes that a number of concrete measures need to be taken to ensure a sustainable salmon farming industry. It is necessary to introduce binding environmental measures which significantly improve the environmental status of the farming industry by 2013. The proposals must involve quantitative requirements in terms of genetic impact and escape, disease, pollution and emissions. At the same time, more money needs to be allocated for research and development, in particular for development and demonstration facilities for closed systems at sea or facilities with an equivalent level of safety. The Council of State underlined that legislation should be ‘technologically neutral’ because the government wants to facilitate innovation and technology development. We agree. At the same time, we need to make demands to ensure that future solutions are sustainable. Therefore, the Christian People’s Party has proposed a plan for the transition to an environmentally sustainable farming industry with closed sea facilities, alternative measures to achieve an equivalent level of safety by 2020. Any future capacity increase may, for example: are reserved for those operating closed installations or installations with an equivalent level of safety. Closed installations are already operating in China. Closed systems may help to reduce the problems of escape and disease and parasite spread. The Christian People's Party believes that closed marine farming facilities can meet both the development of industry and the need for an environmentally sustainable farming industry. As explained by the Council of State, the aquaculture industry is one of our largest export industries. In 2010, farmed fish were exported for a staggering 33.4 billion. kr. That's an increase of 7.5 billion. kr from 2009! The Christian People’s Party therefore believes that the farming industry can afford to be charged with the measures needed to ensure an environmentally friendly industry based on renewable resources that can contribute to coastal value creation in Norway for many years to come. The Christian People's Party believes that binding environmental measures are essential both to ensure the reputation of the farming industry and to ensure sustainable and profitable production in the long term, and to preserve the wild and sea trout in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e435	I would also like to thank the Council of State for a good status report. The left is crystal clear that farming must be sustainable from an environmental point of view, but industry is also facing other challenges. The left considers that there is a need for more efficient management of aquaculture, both in order to contribute to economic development in order to enable Norway to exploit its potential for seafood production and to ensure that we have a localisation structure that helps the industry to deal with fish health and environmental challenges as best as possible. In order to achieve more efficient management of aquaculture, a number of measures should therefore be implemented in the view of the Left. The left considers that the nest layer model should be introduced as a regime in the management of aquaculture. This was a trial model that was tested in Trøndelag, leading to a reduction in the procedure time. The model was based on the fact that the Fisheries Directorate was authorised by other sectoral authorities in curative cases, so that the focus could be on the complex issues. In the view of the Left, this model was so successful that it should be introduced as a general regime. At the same time, the management reform should be reversed. This reform resulted in a strong role for county councils in the management of aquaculture and contributed to an additional level of administration, which cannot be called simplification in good left tradition. As the aquaculture industry has evolved, there has also been a strong change in technology around the industry. New technical standards for marine installations have, for example: led to annual investments of about 1 billion. kr in new installations. This makes it possible for the industry to benefit today from sites that are more vulnerable but are also more suitable for aquaculture. The basis for the choice of sites lies in extensive environmental studies and monitoring. This means that the industry is moving from areas that do not provide sufficient conditions for production or that are not sufficiently suitable for the environment. The left therefore considers that no maximum level of salmon should be introduced in the individual installations. Such a maximum limit would weaken the potential to restructure the sites and would not take into account that large sites are an important tool in building a future site structure. In order to achieve a robust locality structure, the different companies often need to switch sites between and also remove sites that are not suitable for fish health, distance requirements between facilities, etc. These are very complex processes and require the various companies to give and take, and also to make the procedure effective. Therefore, procedural time is an important success factor in achieving the best possible location structure, and the Left therefore supports the introduction by the government of the time-limit for proceedings. The marine industry is an important industry for Coast Norway, and it is an important industry for the country. It is therefore necessary to focus on the opportunities of the aquaculture industry. However, it is not necessary to cover the fact that measures are needed to ensure good spatial organisation and strong environmental measures to ensure the objectives of salmon and escape. That should be more of a matter for the Council of State. If it's not done, we don't want a aquaculture industry to build on. In the presentation by the Council of State there is no mention of a single word on education related to aquaculture. Is this less important to the government? I had appreciated whether the council had said a few words about this in its presentation, or now afterwards. The Council of State pointed out that over the year large investments in research and development in cod farming have been made. The left will ask whether it would not be more appropriate to use these funds to further develop the salmon industry and research-based measures to develop good solutions, including: lakterus. When we also know that cod farming competes with the salmon industry on access to land, and land is considered an important factor in achieving good environmental solutions for aquaculture, is it not a stronger targeting against salmon more socially sound use of land and research resources? Finally, the breeding industry is a well-organised industry. It should therefore be fully possible for the government to engage in dialogue with the industry in order to establish a binding agreement with clear objectives, instruments and deadlines addressing the various environmental challenges facing it. For example, such agreements are made. in the mainland industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e454	Today's debate shows that there is a broad consensus in this Chamber on the importance and potential of the aquaculture industry, and also on the sustainability challenges, which I pointed out mainly are salmonmus and escape. Listening to the national conversation about the aquaculture industry often poses challenges. It's actually less common to hear about the significance and the potential. That is why the debate today is important. I would like to take this opportunity to thank both for the presentation and for the debate today. The marine industry is one of our largest export industries and contributes to the creation of activity and employment in about 150 coastal municipalities. But industry also has challenges on the sustainability side. These are high-priority challenges for the government through the follow-up to the measures of the government’s strategy for sustainable aquaculture. The representative Nesvik expressed disappointment that the presentation lacked visions in the future. In preparing this statement, I was very concerned about the weight, precisely because there is no reason to use the widest brush and the blackest paint. In the presentation, I reviewed several positive points on the agenda of the aquaculture industry, and I can mention: research and knowledge-based industries, forward-looking technologies and production methods, breeding other species, an industry selling to markets around the world, Norway's leading brands, increased seafood consumption in Norway, dietary councils, importance for activity and employment. Yes, there are absolute opportunities for the aquaculture industry to contribute to Norway’s becoming the world’s leading maritime nation. Then we have division of labour. The role of the authorities is to contribute to the framework conditions that provide these opportunities for growth. Among the most important in this way is keeping order in the Norwegian economy, limiting the use of oil money, one of the framework conditions on which this industry is highly dependent. For some of us, the rule of action is very central to that work. The further division of labour is that the industry can materialise the possibilities, traded in value creation. What I have pointed out, including from this pulpit, are the possibilities that lie in increasing processing. I find that it has been perceived that I am going to impose increased processing on the industry. No, but we're going to make sure that's something that the industry finds interesting. I am delighted when I travel along the coast and see that there are more and more people who think of it as a great potential for growth for the industry – not only quantum growth, but also increased value creation. Then I also thank the representative Nesvik for his invitation to join Mr. More. I would love to. I travel a lot along the coast already, for the simple reason that I think the best solutions come out in meetings with those who have their shoes on. The representative, Nesvik, was also in the office of Mr. Danggerfjord, who was sent to the hearing last week. So it's round 2 in terms of that rule. In the past, maximum quantities in Hardangerfjorden and the geographic extent of consultation have been permitted. It's still firm, and what was at the hearing in the previous round, including six new sites, has been taken in. In the case of consultation, it is up to them to hear those who are affected. What do you call it, if you call it an impact assessment -- it's at least going in and asking: what does this actually mean for those who meet this? What I am now sending to the hearing is just about how to distribute the maximum authorised biomass among those who are in that fjord. Then there is no doubt that there is a difference between large and small. What was sent to the hearing last week, in my view, takes care of the least in a much better way. But here, as usual, I am absolutely open to recordings and good advice, and I expect to get good input into the consultation round. Of course, escape has been a topic here today, and it has been high on the agenda lately. In parallel with discussing lice and lice challenges for a long time, I have pointed out that it is also an area that we still need to keep high on the agenda. Yes, the government takes the escape problem very seriously, and we will continue to focus on measures to prevent escape, through, among other things. a stricter regulation. The division of labour here is also so that we make the rules, we get the laws adopted in this room, and then it's the industry's responsibility to follow the legislation and have a sufficient safety culture that helps to follow the work routines of the facilities. In short, it is the breeders who are responsible for keeping the fish inside the mermaids and not outside. An example is the NYTEK Regulation which lays down the technical standard for liquid farms. Here, as late as January of this year, I sent new and stricter rules for technical standards to be consulted. The Directorate-General for Fisheries has significantly strengthened the oversight of aquaculture in the last year and will in future focus on escape in connection with operations such as: lice treatment and technical condition of installations. The event that was on Hitra last week has been mentioned. Of course, we're going to wait for what's happening there. The Fisheries Directorate will decide what the reaction process will be when the site report is completed over the next week, so we’ll hear more about it. Then the representative was Bakke-Jensen within this with the concession policy. Then I just want to remind you that the aquaculture law that we have today was adopted by the Stortinget as late as spring 2005, on a proposal from the Bondevik II government. That's the law we have today. It was adopted by a broad majority in the Grand Duchy and, in my opinion, provides a good basis for the industry. It is important that the aquaculture industry has stable assumptions and long-term framework conditions. The Aquaculture Act continued the number-limiting system for permits for salmon and rainbow trout farming, with the possibility for policy management of new allocations through regional distribution and other instruments. Each permit is additionally limited by the maximum authorised biomass. This system – the MTB system – was introduced from 1 January 2005. The Red-Green Government has been committed to ensuring that Norwegian aquaculture industry has competitive framework conditions and has therefore presented its own competition strategy in 2007. As a follow-up to the 2009 government presented the sustainability strategy, which I discussed in more detail in the presentation. Then it is that the aquaculture law provides alternative opportunities to increase production capacity. Our government has done this in three different ways: in 2006, 10 authorisations were granted in Finnmark at the closing bidding round, i.e. market pricing in 2009 was granted 65 permits, half of which went to North Norway, by fixed price and priority criteria, and in 2011 5 pst will be granted. increased MTB for permits in Troms and Finnmark This shows that we have not invested in one particular method of allocation, but that the government has chosen to increase production capacity in the way that has been considered most appropriate. The marine industry contributes to export income, it contributes to activity and it contributes to employment, especially in many coastal communities. I have visited several of these, where farms are corner stone farms. We're going to appreciate that. We'll talk more about that, and we'll talk more about the possibilities. But we also need to keep a high focus on the challenges on the sustainability side, especially related to salmon and escape. The government's starting point is to facilitate further growth within a sustainable framework. Both the authorities and the industry themselves must contribute to the achievement of this objective. Then I notice that the representative Bakke-Jensen does not like to read Soria Moria II. I must say that I can have some understanding of that, and I live with it very well. Personally, I find both joy and commitment in working for Norway, the world's leading maritime nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e504	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e508	My question is answered by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs on my input into an impact assessment of the measures assessed in Hardangerfjorden. Then the Council of State said in its statement: Yes, but I have sent it to the hearing, what more is what the representative wants? Yes, if that had been an impact assessment, I can't understand why the government's problems should arise in Lofoten and the West Pole, because then it would have been enough to send it out to the hearing, and then you would have got what is going on. No, it's not that simple, of course. An impact study will look at the availability of seine fish, the consequences of new sites, the prices of new sites and their location, the cost perspective of the large versus small production plants and slaughter plants. So there are a number of different things that are involved in such an investigation, and that of course the council knows very well. That is why I ask the Council of State once again: will the Council of State consider an impact assessment of how these things can happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e515	I confirm that I know the difference in impact assessment and consultation – that is exactly what the representative Nesvik is right about. My point of expressing myself that way was not that a hearing should come instead of an impact assessment. Here we have legislation to take care of. But at the same time, I have to say that with regard to the challenges we face in Hardangerfjorden – which is special in Norwegian context – it is also important to me that we are able to find a solution that meets the objectives set relatively quickly. Of course, you have to go through carefully and look at the effects and impact they have on individual companies. I'm assuming that I also get a recording of it in the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e520	I'm going to go one step further, and I'm going to go to NOW 1999:9 For salmon for everyone can't anyone do? I will quote from page 141 under point 9.5.7 Rainbow trout and sterile salmon: «The evacuation of rainbow trout and sterile salmon does not result in genetic interactions with wild salmon populations. Raising rainbow trout or sterile salmon to replace ordinary salmon will therefore contribute to a significant reduction of the adverse effects of escape.» In this regard, I challenged the Council of State in my post instead of looking at a distinction between salmon and trout concessions in particularly vulnerable areas where, among other things, have problems with the wild breeds and are therefore in conflict with the farming industry. In fact, the price of farmed trout is also higher today than on salmon, and the market can take away much more. But we have very few actors in this field. My question to the Council of State is this: Will the Council of State now consider doing as proposed by the Rieber-Mohn Committee, precisely to separate the concession system between trout and salmon?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e532	Today we have a concession system that allows the breeder to choose whether he wants dried or salmon. Then I see the arguments that having trouted in some areas in relation to the challenges of the wild axis is better at least as far as escape is concerned. In the case of lice, it may not be as obvious, with the exception of the transitional fjords mentioned in the article. That's right. However, when farmers choose to produce significantly more salmon than trout, I assume that there is a reason for this. I don't follow the trout prices throughout the year, I'll be honest and admit it, but I know it's been years for the trout tops that have made them cut out, and it's been for market reasons. But I would encourage everyone – and that’s the industry’s responsibility in relation to sustainability – to see if trout can be an alternative in some fjords, like cod or other marine species that I’ve pointed out before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e539	I will also agree with the Council of State that we can find considerably better literature than what is in Soria Moria, both I and II. It was revealing that the Aquaculture Act was of 2005 and that it had been widely agreed. But without checking, I actually think I should be able to get more people to agree that the last concession award has not been completely successful, neither for reputation, for industry players or for the political environment, for that matter. There is an understanding that intra-fleet profitability provides good assistance in resource control. In fact, it is also a message that Norway is bringing with it into the world — it is doing good resource control. I actually think that profitability also has its mission to run an environmentally good industry. My question to the Council of State is, do you think that the cost of concession games can be a problem for the environmental power here?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e546	I have not then included any statistics on who was satisfied, and who was dissatisfied with the last round of allocations, and I am probably not going to do so either. But what I want to express from this pulpit is that what I see as one of the weaknesses of the last round was that the allocation process took too much time from the announcement, until it was finally in target. These are things that we absolutely have to look at from the authorities. Then I also wanted it to be absolutely true that profitability is equal to better environment and better environmental technologies. It will now, at least in the future, give answers, for better profitability than the industry has today, you have to go back a long way to see. In terms of costs and if you can relate it to using the money incorrectly in the industry, I think I should be careful to say. At least it is important for the industry to also have marketable facilities in relation to banking. I think I can say that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e555	The Christian People's Party, as the Council of State is aware, has made proposals in the Grand Duchy on deadlines and clear standards for what should be the environmental farming industry in the years to come. The representative Holmelid of SV had an excellent exemplification of the dynamics between demands, which have been carried out in other industries, and the result in terms of good competitiveness and a profitable and offensive industry that succeeds internationally. I could have mentioned several examples: requirements for the cleaning of gas power plants, which have stimulated research into it, new fuels in the automotive industry, etc. In the area by area, we have added the list, and then the food and research environments have shown what they had to try to skip. In terms of growth requirements in the farming industry, the government states in the strategy that growth must be “assessed as environmentally sustainable” – a prerequisite for growth. What are the requirements of the research communities and industry to know where to skip the list?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e562	The government has also set both deadlines and clear requirements and clear standards. With regard to deadlines, the closest one is to show that growth in industry is not being discussed until 2012, precisely with a background to the environmental challenges and above all lice. It has been repeated from this pulpit quite many times. Furthermore, the government sets very clear standards. It is formulated in a document entitled Strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry, which reviews the objectives of both incorporation of farmed fish into wild fish stocks, lice/diseases, pollution and feed availability. There you can read through the point by point and see what the goal is, and what tools are needed for you to be there. These are the standards that this government is working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e567	In my contribution, I was involved in research and development investments in cod farming, and that, in the view of the Left, it would be more useful to use these funds to further develop the salmon industry. What are the thoughts of the Council of State about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e572	There is no doubt that cod farming and commercialisation of cod as a new marine breed has taken a very long time, and that there is a lot of money spent. A lot of private people have spent a lot of money developing this industry. I have met the remaining operators in the cod industry, who still believe that there are opportunities here. We now see trends in product development, which are very exciting, where you can make products that are different from the wild cod. Today to say that we should stop spending money on cod farming, would at least be to say that everything that has been done is wasted. That is why I have told the industry that insofar as there are commercial actors who have faith, who are willing to invest their own money, I will maintain the breeding programme. I was just in Tromsø with the Crown Prince, where we were able to describe parts of the work done there, and I still hope that cod will become an important marine breeder for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e579	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e583	There were high expectations in advance of the fisheries and coastal minister Lisbeth Berg-Hansen's report on fisheries policy. In my view, it was a very good account that was presented in Stortinget on Thursday last week. I would like to thank you for that. The presentation included many important aspects of industry, such as the current situation, environmental challenges and the government's desired policy in the aquaculture industry, and in addition other important opportunities and challenges that industry has in the time to come, and not least a description of the importance of industry to Norway today and in the future. It is important to focus on this important industry. The Government Platform focuses on facilitating continued growth in the aquaculture industry. It is then important to stress that it must and will be done in an environmentally and sustainable way. This cannot be stressed well enough. The surrounding world requires the aquaculture industry to document environmentally sustainable farming production, and the Council of State stated in its statement: ‘The question is how strong an environmental impact we can accept’. The working party is very pleased with the focus of the Council of State in its presentation on precisely this with sustainability in the industry. I also noticed that the Council of State noticed the large escape that has taken place from one of the farms in Trøndelag – and rightly so. This is very serious. Unfortunately, the industry has really had a need to repair its reputation. Farmers are responsible for keeping the fish in the mermaids. Therefore, it is quite appropriate that a proposal is now being consulted to strengthen technical requirements for food-fishing facilities and that work is also under way on a technical standard for farms. There must still be a high focus on escape, both from breeders and the authorities, because it is totally unacceptable that there should be such huge quantities of farmed fish as it did in this case in Trøndelag. In addition, the Council of State pointed to a number of other areas that are important for the environmentally sound operation of the industry within the limits of its nature. That's good. There must be a great deal of focus on this. The Labour Party also agrees with the Council of State that the task of the authorities is to create good framework conditions that ensure a sustainable and competitive Norwegian aquaculture industry. And it can't be repeated often enough that the most important thing is to keep order in the Norwegian economy. It is important in general for all industries, but especially for export industries, such as the aquaculture industry. This is essential for profitability and the ability of industry to make long-term investments. In addition, the Labour Party fully agrees that good transport solutions are also important. Today, several have mentioned the Gullestad report. The mandate of this sample has been to propose a new overarching spatial structure to help the aquaculture industry exploit the area in a sustainable and efficient manner with the least possible environmental impact and risk of infection. This might pave the way for a new way of thinking, for example. concession awards. I look forward to an exciting and constructive process. What's absolutely certain is that if this industry gets shot in a good way, as we say in the north, it's going to have life's right. We're going to have a huge population growth in the world in a few decades, and everyone's going to have food. I think the farming industry will play a significant role in the world's food production. Even today, the aquaculture industry is an important industry for Norway. If there is any form of food production Norway has natural conditions, it is breeding and, in particular, salmon farming. We have a long coastline with clean water and good space. We have a unique competitive advantage. In conclusion, I would like to point out that the size and importance of the aquaculture industry makes society properly involved in aquaculture policy and how the industry carries out its activities. The aquaculture industry has good opportunities to continue its positive development of production, but must be prepared at the same time for the authorities to lower their feet if necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e614	I would like to start where my colleague, Mr Nesvik, concluded that Norwegian aquaculture is essentially a success story. I have the impression that the Council of State, Berg-Hansen, agrees that it is essentially a success story. It's not always that I get the impression when the government speaks out, and it might not have been a problem if the government college and the other state councils had been equally clear that this is a success story. I also think that it is emphasised that part of the parliamentary basis today, the representative Alf Egil Holmelid, compares this with a cowboy industry and the industry in the 1960s. So the aquaculture industry is subject to 60 laws and regulations. We have the supervision of fisheries Directorates, food surveillance, labour supervision, Clif and various veterinary control bodies. This isn't a cowboy industry, although they have some challenges. Then to lice regulations. When I started working with wild salmon in 2005, I tried to get the government and then the state councillor Helga Pedersen to do something about it, but nothing happened. We tried to tighten up. Under the leadership of the new Council of State, the lice regulations have been revised and tightened up several times, which, of course, was quite correct and important, but it took its time, and with a great deal of commitment from the Storting, before anything happened. Technical regulations were adopted in 2004 after pressure also from industry, and now all installations are subject to new regulations for some years. It's going in a lot of ways. But Snorre Serigstad Valen, who is also part of the parliamentary basis of the government, says to the Address Paper on 18 February that he wants a ban on today's marine technology. Then I think we're going too far, and especially when you're basing it on a break-up from SalMar. The trønderke, Fröya-based breeding company SalMar will probably recognise industry in many ways as a driver of environmental and sustainability in the industry. This is not just one success story – there are many success stories. When I started working with wild salmon in 2005, the number of escaped salmon was counted. Today you count farmed salmon in the river, and that's good. We know that one of the world's leading research environments on wild breeds is the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research in Trondheim, and they say that by the lower of 4,000 salmon of those who have escaped from the SalMar plant, they will return to Norwegian rivers. It's dramatic. It's at the base of 1 pst. of the total opposition to Norwegian rivers in one year. But it's not about 175,000 farmed salmon waiting to enter Norwegian rivers. We know this today. In 2005, we did not know that. But now we count the salmon where it does damage. That, I believe, is a step forward for the administration. This work on re-fishing salmon is mainly done by volunteers. This is not done sufficiently, and it has a cost that is currently borne by actors who have in a way not been responsible for the escape and who do not receive tax revenue from the breeding industry either. So I think to get a better understanding of this, that's more research into how much salmon comes back, we need to increase refishing in the river. And, of course, when the fish is re-fished, it doesn't get into the river either. For the problem of escaped farmed salmon, from a biological point of view, it's actually that salmon spawns in the river, and as long as we can avoid it doing it, either by starving in the heel of the sea, or by being fished up, it doesn't hurt either. Then to the third success story. It's research. We have several world-leading environments in Norway, both related to wild salmon and farmed salmon. There are two factors that make the farmed salmon create some challenges for the wild species. One is salmonmus, and the other is escape. Both of these conditions can hopefully be solved easily by increasing the focus on research and development in these fields. Sterile farmed salmon will, for example: have a marginal impact on farmed salmon, just as the representative Nesvik was involved. If we can develop feed that makes the farmed salmon become immune to salmon sauce, much of the problem is solved. As a Parliament and national Parliament, we are not allowed to choose between wild salmon and farmed salmon. I am absolutely sure that we can get to both, but it requires increased effort to this extent also from the industry, and not least from the government. If you have problems with funding, I know that many of the actors in the industry are willing to discuss an environmental fund that can fund both research and catch fish in the rivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e631	It was wise for the Minister of Fisheries to accept the invitation from the Progress Party and the Right to come to the Stortinget and explain. It was wise because she was then given the opportunity to establish the broad consensus that prevails over Norwegian farming and aquaculture. There have been many words of honor. I'm not going to repeat all of these, but one agrees on the success story that has been, what it has brought the country of export revenue, and not least what it will bring in the future. One of the most important issues that has been settled here today is that we are going to have a development. It has been established by the Minister for Fisheries, both in the presentation and today. The Chairman of the Committee decided in his statement that we should have a development in the industry. And I think we have a great majority for that in Stortinget. But it must be allowed to point out that, within the red-greens, you hear other voices, especially from SV. I don't hear a single word about growth, but it's a very strong focus on all the challenges and problems that exist. That's right, because growth is obligating, but we must not turn the challenges that lie there into barriers to growth. The right also believes that environmental requirements are important. We need to impose strict environmental requirements. On the other hand, business must also have clear, predictable framework conditions. And then there's a question of whether we're predictable enough. I think it's right to take the pause you're taking in 2011. But during this break one must also consider the predictability of the industry and not least the communication with the actors in this industry. It is important to find the right regulations and conditions, not least in relation to the wild axis. For this reason, I agree with the Council of State when she says that environmental sustainability indicators and limit values must ‘have a multi-disciplinary approach’. That's exactly what I agree with, because there are a lot of people involved here. But if that means that the Council of State believes that the terms and conditions, the requirements, and not least the public communication between the government and industry actors should also be multi-government and multi-political, I become more concerned. That's what they've been, and that's what's behind asking the State Council to come to the Stortinge to explain. When the Council of State in the presentation talks about the joint knowledge seminar she and the Council of Environmental Protection Ministers held last year on the relationship between farmed salmon and wild salmon, the multi-politic approach is again emerging. The report talks about the nuances in the professional community’s perception of the problem between wild salmon and farmed salmon. Those who have read the minutes from the seminar in the press – I have to admit that I was not there; I do not remember being invited, either, but this is no regret about it – will see that it was nuances, must be the understatement of the year. This was a significant criticism from, among other things, the Marine Research Institute and other actors; I think that as we move on with the consensus we have in Stortinget, the industry deserves a more consistent approach in communication. Reputation is important. On the reputation side, the industry has a great responsibility, but it is also important how this is produced by the authorities, how consistent it is. There I think it is a considerable job to do for departments, directorates belonging to the different departments, how to present the actual situation, which we here politically agree on and praise. Do not let the operation of this outside destroy the good image. There is a considerable challenge for the Minister for Fisheries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e648	First, I just have to clear out a little thing that Tord Lien from the Progress Party came along. The representative, Serigstad Valen, has made no proposal for a ban. He has said that we need to intensify work on new technology, and the representative has the majority in the committee behind it. Norwegian aquaculture has — and has — a major impact on the country. The industry generates large incomes and many jobs, and, as we know, it also has a great impact on our export incomes. I guess that's good. But as the industry appears today, I would argue that it is not sustainable. Each of the actors in the farming industry is serious and creates values for people and for society, but the problem is the overall scale. When there is so much volume in production, also a low degree of escape will lead to major problems for the wild axis. Norway has, as we know, a special responsibility for the Norwegian-Atlantic wilderness axis, and the situation is worrying. One third of the populations are threatened, and I think there's 45 that have been lost. And escape, like the one we had on the Thunder Layer Coast, is – to put it mildly – an unwanted event in that context. Unfortunately, it's not unique. Over several years, we've seen more escapes, so when the salmon escapes, it pulls into the rivers and mixes with the wild axis. In the South Throne Team, where I live, we have two very important rivers, it's Gaula and Orkla. These are famous salmon rivers that attract people from all over the world to themselves. People living along the river who have rights can sell fishing licenses and experiences, and it creates ring-fences for the whole community. Travel life is of great importance. We want to take care of these traditions. The farming industry we have today is not sustainable. The villa is now under threat, and travel life is also threatened. It's hard for people up through Gaula and Orkla to sell 24 hours to the fishermen when you know that there's little fish to get. We want and have a clear expectation that farming industries will start a transformation for a future in which they will have safe escape facilities, where disease and control of environmental impacts are controlled. That's just how we can get a sustainable farming industry that can still contribute to important production and value creation along the coast – and then I'm talking about food production. We need the fish, but this has to happen in a sustainable way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e661	I believe that the Council of State has given a very good account of the policy on aquaculture, which, as a prerequisite, is that we should have an environmentally sustainable industry. The government's strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry sets objectives and important leadership for the future. There are in particular five main areas of focus, and I would like to remind you of them: it is genetic impact in wild fish due to escape, pollution and emissions, disease and parasites, land use and feed resources. I have noticed that the follow-up of measures in the sustainability strategy is becoming very central to the government in the future. As has been said here, the farming industry is a young industry, an industry of adventurous economic growth, which has now passed the traditional fisheries in value in terms of exports. But the domestic consumption of salmon is also in rapid growth. It is an important industry for the country. But it is also an industry that has its activity in a vulnerable environment with many conflicts of interest. I mention here the consideration of the wild axis as the most important. It is therefore important that we have knowledge-based and adequate management, but it is also important that industry, the interests of the wild and other interests can communicate in a neat manner with each other on the challenges of finding the right limit values for what is environmentally sustainable. I was a little disappointed when, in the course of a hearing some time ago, I asked the actors if they could not sit down together to try to reach a consensus on the challenges facing the industry, and got the answer from Norway's Hunter and Fisher Federation that it was both unnecessary and unnecessary. I thought that was disappointing. But then it is gratifying that, at regional level, in Trøndelag, a first joint dialogue meeting has just been held. I think it's a good start, and I hope it can be the recording of similar initiatives elsewhere and at national level. There's something fateful about that accident, or we're going to say the disaster, which has hit the wilderness axis and the industry on the Trøndelagskysten – right in the cradle of the farming industry exactly 40 years after the start. This is a matter that is now being thoroughly investigated, and I'm not going to go into that side of the problem, but when this disaster can happen in one of our most reputable companies, then it's not going to be a big fantasy to understand that it can happen again. That's why I think it has to be a broad review of regulations, regulations and routine descriptions to ensure that something like what we have now experienced is not going to happen. I agree that there seems to be a broad consensus in the Chamber today on the importance of the industry, on the potential and co-existence of the wild species. However, it has not been long since the Stortinget dealt with a proposal from the Right to speed up the growth of the farming industry, by dividing future growth between an increase in the maximum authorised biomass and the award of new concessions, at the same time asking for the concession system to be investigated. The proposal of the Progress Party was to implement a new concession round which was to take place after lottification, free of charge, without mentioning the geographical location and structure of the industry. In addition, the government would increase MTB to 980 tonnes per concession. The proposals did not get a majority, and I am pleased that today there is a large majority of people who are concerned that the aquaculture industry should have a strong environmental and sustainable profile, and that the farming industry should develop without harming the wild species.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e674	I would also like to thank the Minister of Fisheries and the Coast for a good and balanced management of aquaculture policy where the opportunities and challenges, the importance and the potential were evident. The world’s population will be about 9.5 billion by 2050, and it is estimated that more than 1 billion live below the threshold today. We should have an ambition that the sole should be eradicated. This means that food production must increase by at least 50 pst. in the four decades it is until 2050. Apart from the work of stopping or slowing down the man-made global warming, this is our most important collective display of the globe. Is the strategy to increase world food production by 50 pst. increased specialisation, increased industrialisation, marginalisation – or all of this? The world must focus on exploiting the shortage of food production, both on land and in water, built on sustainable production methods. I am pleased that the government has great visions and goals for the Norwegian seafood industry. Our vision is that Norway will become the world's leading maritime nation. We have good opportunities to make better use of our resources, and if we and maritime nutrition take the right action, the seafood can become ‘the new oil’. Our vision challenges both the industry and the government to think carefully about what it means to be the best maritime nation in the world. I am pleased that the Council of State and the Ministry have committed themselves to concreteising and translating the vision into action and new measures to raise the seafood industry even further. More than 95 pst. of the seafood produced in Norway is exported to markets throughout the world. That means we just consume 5 pst. in Norway. There is a large market for short-range food, and tourism needs to see the potential to sell branded salmon and other species of fish to both foreign and domestic tourists. At the same time it will be both healthy and good for people to care for a more fish. I am therefore particularly pleased with the approach of the Fish Pretzel, where we get good taste and good impact, from kindergarten age, to eat more fish. Seafood is one of our biggest export items for oil and gas. The fourth year’s export indicated that there was a 37 million seafood meal from Norway every day throughout the year. This means that if everything we produce was sent to Sweden, each Swedish had to have four seafood meals every day, all year! In conclusion, I would like to stress something that, in my view, does not always appear, but which I am pleased that the Minister mentioned in his statement, and that relates to jobs linked to this industry. As you know, farming is concentrated in 150 of our municipalities, and there are important rural jobs linked to individual farms. It helps to maintain employment and busses in municipalities. For this reason, it is important that this important industry is still provided for in the years to come, based on sustainable growth frameworks. One of the most important tasks is to establish politically anchored limit values for what is environmentally viable. After hearing the representatives from the Progress Party today, I see that we have certain challenges in coming up with goals here. Management must be based on the best available knowledge and the precautionary principle, and the objective of the sustainability strategy is that aquaculture should not contribute to lasting changes in the genetic properties of wild fish stocks. Then we must have control and knowledge of escape, salmon and disease, pollution and emissions. It's about the seventh and last thing about how much environmental impact we're willing to accept.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e697	I would also like to start by thanking the Minister of Fisheries for a thorough and thorough presentation. This is a debate that is going on with a very serious backstairs: the biggest escape in Trondelag ever, with 175 000 salmon on the run. Hopefully you'll be able to fish up a lot of this and limit the damage, but the case shows how difficult it is to get control of escape, and that we still have great challenges. So I am very happy that there are already proposals for new and reinforced technical requirements out for consultation. The villa has been a repeater in this room, among other things. through various inter-pelling debates and proposals, and that is, of course, because the state of the wild is worrying. In the last three years, the estimated incidence of small salmon has been the lowest ever. 120 salmon rivers are closed, and 180 rivers receive two to four weeks of additional conservation. Then, of course, the threat picture is compounded. Both the regulation of watercourses in connection with power expansions, acid rains and not least gyro have contributed to the weakening of wild salmon. But these are factors that environmental authorities consider to be somewhat stabilised. There are things that we have control of, not least because of the enormous promise that has been made in terms of both liming and gyro control under the red-green government. The threat that is not considered to be stabilised is salmontus and escaped farmed salmon. That is why it is good and also absolutely necessary for the Minister for Fisheries to place such emphasis on sustainability in his statement. It's quite right, as she says, that this is not a small and spicy nourishment that needs to be screened, it's a big and viable industry with high profitability. It is excellent, but it also means that it must be made responsible and regulated, just as industry on land has gradually become subject to increasingly stringent environmental requirements. This means, among other things: that the fundamental principles of environmental management, such as that of the polluter, must also apply to this industry. It is not the public that is going to pay for the de-fishing of runaway farmed salmon in watercourses, it should be covered by breeders, and I believe that the industry itself agrees. Where it is not possible to trace the fish back to the legitimate owner, other solutions may be required. I believe that the discussion that has taken place about labelling is interesting. The same applies to the testing of closed installations. And what Preline does in Hardangerfjord is well worth following. It is true, then, that the representative, Mr Kvalvik, stated that the red-green majority in the Committee on Energy and the Environment has underlined the need for intensified investment in new technologies. This is also an international discussion, and I find it exciting to see that Canada has been offensive to this with closed installations in connection with the extension of its concessions. Then there has been a proposal to limit how many fish are allowed to have in a production unit. Those hearing opinions are being discussed in the department, and I am very pleased that this discussion is being taken, because too much of the threat lies in the fact that the farmed salmon are many in number, but the wild salmon are few. There may be up to 1⁄2 million fish in a single mermaid, while the total insight of quail wildaxes into Norway is between 1⁄2 million and 1 million. That's what makes a single escape of 175,000 so serious, and what makes us have to fish up a lot of this. I think it is a little strange that the representatives of the Progress Party choose to trivialise this in their posts. I agree that it is absolutely right to count the escaped salmon in the rivers. But there's, of course, a connection between how many escapes and how much we get into the rivers – and not least the time of escape. This time we were lucky with the timing. In the case of the loop situation, many have been involved. Of course, the most worrying thing is that the development of resistance is not under control. The government's sustainability strategy is good. There have been so many individual actions that I don't have time to ram everyone up. Nevertheless, there is a high probability that the objectives of the strategy will not be achieved for the Rogaland-Troms route. The Minister for Fisheries even talked about that. Breeding salmon is one of the most important export items we have. It is absolutely necessary, and also in the industry's own interest, that production is carried out within a sustainable framework. Taking care of the North Atlantic wilderness is something we have committed to do internationally. In addition, wild-fishing is important for many communities. Many years of work are linked to it. We spend a lot of money on wild breeds every year over the Ministry of the Environment's budget on what's going on about liming and gyro. There are threats that we are beginning to gain control of. That's why it's so important that we're now working seriously to get control of what's happening on lice and escape, which, as of today, is the greatest threat to this very unique species.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e723	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e726	The Minister chose, in his statement, to declare the industry to be a final adult. She said it has been mentioned as a young industry for a long time. But now we have a 40-year success story to point to. One moment she did not affect in her presentation, but, as I know she has been busy, is recruitment. In 2009, only 38 aquaculture professionals were trained in the country. We tend smokers who know what they're talking about, who can look at the fish whether it's good or bad based on how it goes in the game. We need smokers who know how to fine, who know what equipment to use, and who know how to vary between the scotches and the salmon. The installations are normally placed so that they are not in the way of other types of industry. That means they're well hidden in the districts. As a politician, I've had a lot of good time going on the periphery and seeing how things work in practice. I have been out in little South Tverrfjord with their 15 inhabitants. It means something to them that every week there are two extra people in the village who all the time – every day – are on the verge and see how the fish are doing. It means something to South Tverrfjord that the two people buy their food at the store in South Tverrfjord, that they take the boat out to South Tverrfjord, that the boat they use is on the slip in Bergsfjord and gives good values locally. If you only follow the debate through the media, you get a very uniform and poor overview of this industry. The focus is only on lice, escape and another record year in sales and production. Looking at the public debate, one can easily get the impression that nothing is happening and that there is little technology development in the industry. In addition, the public debate is marked by individual actors spreading uncertainty about whether Norwegian farmed salmon is healthy. There's a lot going on. There's exciting research on DNA tracking to show where the salmon came from. There is a good development of vaccines. Lepfish has given us good results and gives us exciting opportunities in the control of lice. Salmon is the most effective livestock you can have. It gives us much more food – based on what you put in – than any other livestock. And that's the strongest Norwegian brand we have. New demands are still being made. Now most of the actors are buying new mermaids that are secured with a walkway around, so the smokes aren't going to do this at sea. In Finnmark we have a separate requirement that there should be at least 5 km between each farm to have good control over medication and lice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e743	Just a few small comments. It was the representative of Heggø that said that the Progress Party did not have sufficient knowledge of the subject. I have happened to have written a main paper on Norwegian exports of smoke axes to the EU, I have written a textbook on the theme of high school, and I have studied it. So that's the way I've at least tried to get into the problem of the exact salmon industry. What's the big challenge is how we're going to get on with this industry. Because we see that the situation is the way it is today. One of the things I want to achieve, related to distinguishing salmon and trout concessions, is that in order to increase the capacity of the industry, you can give a clean trout concession in the areas where you're concerned about the wild game situation, instead of giving a pool concession. You can't do that in today's legislation. That's why I asked you to look at that theme. Furthermore, in the case of the escape situation, I think the undersigned and the Council of State will have the opportunity to discuss it tomorrow in the Questionnaire, where I will address that particular issue. Because it's serious. We take seriously the situation related to knowledge as well, and what the representative Tord Lien also had to say. Even the Progress Party is in favour of assessing a fund, with both industry itself and other actors involved, to address both the problem of recycling and the research related to lice and possibly the sterilisation of salmon. We have not come far enough, because what we have come up with today's sterilisation measures has led to deformed fish, etc. It is clear that an extra effort needs to be made in these areas. We talk a lot about the profitability of the industry, and that's very important, because it's the profitability that gives further development. In terms of processing rates, there was one thing we found out – in the early 1990s – related to processing. We have focused a lot on the EU market as our immediate market. And when you process the fish – smoking, ‘slice’ and vacuuming – the customs barrier, that is, the fee you have to pay, becomes so high that you are largely uncompetitive in the EU market. But what do we have to do? Well, then we have to work on several fronts, but not least work on other markets that don't have this. We can take the Russian market. The Russian market is a ready-to-pay market. We have the Chinese market, which is clearly a huge market for the future. We have Japan, which is also a big market, and we're about to get back into the United States. But then we have to assume that Chile is on its way up again with its production, because they have got control of the disease. But then we don't have to sit in the situation that we're holding back, so we lose the market shares. Besides that, I would like to thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e756	Both the representative Lien and the representative Fleet called for the involvement of other government councils, and the representative Fleet was concerned that the government had a multi-disciplinary approach to the aquaculture industry. To please the former representatives, I can refer to Minister for the Environment and Development Erik Solheim's reference to the aquaculture industry at a maritime food conference in Hell, where Erik Solheim went further than I have ever done in my mention of the aquaculture industry. He says there that the aquaculture industry is a jewel that needs to be whitewashed. This government is working intensively with the blank-pushing currently, where environmental sustainability is the one that has the most focus right now. This will be discussed – and more representatives will address it – with environmental funds, funding research and financing of joint actions. First of all, we have the Research Fund for Fisheries and Aquaculture, which is collective, based, collects resources from industry and uses a lot of them on exactly what has been the issue here today. The representative Fleet was further within the records of the knowledge seminar, where there was a great deal of disagreement between researchers. Yes, fortunately, I have to say, we have knowledgeable researchers in this country who have to break up. That's exactly what it's about to bring the level of knowledge up and down. I also feel the need to say, to the extent that it may be left with a perception and a misunderstanding on the part of the representative Kvalvik that one of the problems is sick fish in the rivers in Trøndelag, that I have been checked with the Food Authority that there is no known problem for them that there are sick farmed fish in the rivers in Tøndelag, but there are runaway fish – now there is no salmon in the rivers at all for the time being. Just so it's clear now from this pulpit. Several representatives have been involved in the dialogue between the aquaculture industry, the wild fishing industry and the wild fishing interests. I have to say I'm very happy to experience what I see along the coast now: an increasing and good dialogue between the different actors. I myself have been visiting Hardangerfjorden and last week I was in contact with the Minister for the Environment and Development of Vosso. The representative Haugen referred to dialogue in Trøndelag – and there are certainly more who have succeeded. All of this is very, very happy. I would also like to thank you for a good debate, a debate that we will be able to continue around, for the benefit of the coast and for the benefit of Norway – the maritime state of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e774	If a person is to be insulted first, he gets it on the right basis, for what I said was – and now I am going to repeat it: ‘One of the most important tasks is to establish politically anchored limit values for what is environmentally viable.’ After hearing the representatives from the Progress Party both once and twice, I think we have some challenges here, and I still think that we have. For example, how much salmon does it take to make you think it's dramatic? Here, there is a significant difference between the Progress Party and all the other political parties in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e781	No, I totally agree: there are no sick fish in the rivers we're worried about, but when the small fish are going out of the rivers, it can meet a wall with salmonnus. Then it gets bad and never comes back to the river again. Four to five lice are enough for the salmon to die on the way out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e786	I have to get the Council of State's perception of what I said in my post corrected. I was not concerned about the multi-disciplinary approach. It's obviously necessary. There are many disciplines to be involved on the control/supervisory side, the legislator side, the regulatory page, etc. What I was concerned about was what I called the multi-government side, namely that we in this room are experiencing a very consensual collapse, while in the public debate we often experience a fragmented administration. It's a dilemma, and that's the dilemma that has made us stand here today and have got this statement. It in turn affects the reputation of the industry. There is no doubt that the industry itself has significant responsibilities in terms of lice, escape, security measures and all of this, but the production of the political environment, which is quite consistent, and what can sometimes be read in the newspapers of the administration that appears in a different way, is quite unfortunate. The newspapers are also read by people other than the North. This is a significant export industry, and that is what I tried to draw attention to. The Council of State would like to continue, and she should do so with her multi-disciplinary approach. It's all right, but my prayer was to look at how this is handled outwardly. It is quite obvious that there is considerable disagreement in the management. And yes, I agree with that -- have knowledge seminars, let researchers and other experts break up, but finally we need to have a fairly consistent message, at least from those who are responsible politically. That's what you often get a wobbly impression of today. That was my message.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e795	I would also like to join those who believe that this has been a good and necessary debate. The marine industry has been subject to a lot of debate and media talk lately, and one may not exactly characterise it as a nuanced production of an important industry. The debate today shows that there is a broad consensus on the desire for growth in industry and that there is also a need for growth in industry. But the framework and the assembly to get it done is actually going through the government's sustainability strategy, which is comprehensive and, in a way, forward-looking. That is what is the basis for the opportunities in the industry in the future. That's what can lay the foundation for growth, and that's what can lay the foundation for a reduced footprint for the industry in the future. It is therefore gratifying to note that a total increase ends up in the government's sustainability strategy. It also supports the fact that this work is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e807	I would like to join those who say that this has been a good and important debate. At the same time, I would like to make it clear that the reason we have a good and important debate is that it has been a public debate on the conditions in the farming industry that has created a knowledge base for everyone, including us here in the Chamber, so that this is an industry that has many challenges that you can look at from different angles. Without having the broad approach angle to the problem we're discussing here, we wouldn't have been where we are today, and one would not have had the opportunity to develop the industry further. I am therefore a little surprised that the fleet is so concerned that there are many voices in an important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e814	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2620]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e830	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the Council of State post within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e837	Then I am delighted to present a unanimous opinion from the Municipal and Administrative Committee on an additional allocation from the Storting to help and remedy the situation for those who need the most due to high energy costs. The background is very simple. Small water and little rain combined with a lot of cold and a very high power consumption have significantly increased power prices. For those of us who have the least, it can be dramatic. Therefore, the government promotes this proposition for a one-off payment to all households receiving housing support. There are two comments attached to it. First of all, I think it makes sense to help them with the weak economy in as precise a way as this represents, then make it as simple and regulated as it is proposed. The scheme assumes that each household will receive an additional payment of NOK 2 500 for the first member, and then NOK 100 for each additional member of the household. In it there is also a graduation that causes large households to get more than small. At the same time, this is not a scheme that takes into account individual treatment and differences. I don't think that would have been useful either. It would have taken a lot of bureaucracy and probably led to a longer time before the money reached those who needed them. That's the next one. When the Storting now decides this, it is very short time for the money to be paid, they will be paid early in March. This means that it is early enough to meet the challenges people have faced during the winter related to high energy costs. There is an allocation of up to 318.5 million. kr, and as I said, there is a co-opponent committee to present this. I'm glad. It's going to be interesting to hear what the opposition says, but one shouldn't ignore that they're going to go to this pulpit and say that well, we've suggested this before, and we're very happy that the government is following. To that I have two things to say: we can spend a lot of time arguing about this, but I still believe that the government came early enough. In addition, I think it made sense to look at developments in the electricity market and in the weather situation. Secondly, it may also happen that the government occasionally enjoys good input and suggestions from the opposition, and that the government is perhaps just like the most thunderous — spontaneous and forward-looking when you think a little bit about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e852	As case-law spokesperson Ola Borten Moe said, there is a consensual committee behind this proposal, and that's good. But what's a little strange is what the case spokesman also said at the end here, that this is something that the position hasn't meant all the time, while the opposition has meant this for a while. Already on 25 November last year, the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, presented a proposal that was voted down by the position. The proposal read as follows: ‘The government is asking for careful monitoring of the evolution of the electricity price and, if an abnormal situation arises again on the electricity market, the government is asked to consider using housing aid to remedy the situation of the most disadvantaged.’ So this proposal was defeated, and that means that the majority of the population said that the government should not follow the developments in the electricity price carefully, and one would not consider using the supports to remedy the situation for the most difficult. Now it is in many ways good that the government majority has turned around, and we should be happy for that. But this matter is still visible in a great majority and a government that has no respect for the Storting, but on the contrary has degraded the Storting to a sand-push agency for government policy and a chat club without political power. It seemed to me that I'm disrespectful, that I think I'm sad, that I think I'm sad, but there's little the opposition can do about it. We only have hope that we will have a new government in 2013, and then we will have a plurality and a government that has more respect for the Storting than the plurality we now have, and what the government we now have shows to the Storting. But in any case, this is a good proposal from a consensual committee. We thought this was a good policy on 25 November last year, and we still believe that, and we think it is good that the position also means the same today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e872	As everyone knows, we have had an extremely long and cold winter, and especially in November and December we experienced lower temperatures than usual, and the dry, cold weather has also led to higher power prices. When it is so cold over a long time, there are many who freeze – even inside. Doctors have been warning pensioners, families with children and others against saving their power. It can actually be harmful to health, as well as unruly. In these circumstances, we thought in the Right of those who can't afford to cover a larger power bill than usual. As mentioned by the previous speaker, we proposed this in the budget debate on 25 November last year, together with the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party. We proposed increased housing support in connection with the high electricity prices. Then the proposal was defeated, but we think it is positive that the government now agrees that we should remedy the situation of the most disadvantaged. In the past, the right has pointed out that housing support is a rigorous, unbureaucratic and targeted measure for those who need it the most. With this additional allocation – nearly 320 million. kr – many of those who have worn out in winter will go a little warmer in our meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e881	This is actually the story of how the government listens to both the opposition and how the government implements the grip in order to improve the situation for those who struggle most with high power prices. I've been in the committee for a while and I was in the last time there was a power crisis, where you had high electricity prices, namely in 2003. The current Minister of Energy went out and asked people to go to the social office to get help, on which an overall opposition, consisting of the Progress Party, the Centre Party, SV and the Workers' Party, suggested precisely to implement measures to ensure that people were given extra housing support, just as we are doing now. But then both the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left voted against, and later they took the opportunity to vote down the entire housing support increase that we carried out, and the payments did not come until six months – in other words long after people got the electricity bill. But now we're in a situation where we've given a clear message: So much money -- $2,500, plus one hundred bill per. extra residents – to be in place, and we get it in place, and we get it paid in March. This means that all those who receive bills in the mailbox, measured after January and February – traditionally the coldest months in the country – will now receive extra money to pay the electricity bills. I think that is good, and I want to refer to the representative from the Right who said exactly the right thing, that this is a very accurate and unbureaucratic way of making sure that this money comes into place. But it didn't say the right in 2003, when the majority adopted exactly the same against the Right's will. It is very good that previous government parties also see that they may have made mistakes earlier, and that they now agree. I would just like to stress what the case rapporteur, Ola Borten Moe, said, that here we have a case where we have listened to the opposition, where we have gone an extra round and looked at how we can view price developments, and how we can do this in a proper way. Now we take the consequences of it, and we made it very clear early – as the Councillor Life Signe Navarsette warned before Christmas – that now there is going to be money to remedy the situation with regard to the electricity bills. I want to say one thing at the end, and that is that this is a good way – in my opinion – to solve this right now. But we're going to have a broader debate on the energy situation here in Stortinget on Thursday, because there's no doubt that we're in a situation where people who have bad advice have little chance of getting out of the trap they're in. We've done a lot of work to resolve the situation with regard to newly built dwellings. There, the Minister of State has made very strict demands on energy supply, which means that the requirements set out are ready to save electricity by finding other energy sources and by ensuring that houses are as energy efficient as possible. But we have had little opportunity to do this in view of the large mass of old houses. Here I mean we have something to learn from others, and we have to work more on it in time to come. In the United Kingdom, for example, a scheme of white certificates, or power savings certificates, ensuring low-income people. Energy companies are required to save electricity in this type of household. Such proposals have been addressed by several parties in Norway, and more will be addressed in the discussion on Thursday. Here I believe we need to look at both the big message that the Council of State Life Signe Navarsete and the government are going to present during the spring – where we are going into the construction industry and look at how the overall construction industry can facilitate better energy efficiency in existing building mass – and the entire debate that will be ahead. Here are many who do a lot of good, many suggestions that have come. Of course, we have to see them as government parties in an overall context, both on the energy side and in relation to the budgets that we are presenting, because this needs to be properly financed. But there is no doubt that the pressure should be directed at the families who have the worst of advice. That is what we are doing now in connection with the housing support that we unanimously adopt today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e894	I'm not going to keep any long post, this is an overall committee agreeing on. Using housing aid and providing subsidies in the way we have now chosen to do is an effective measure. I'm glad we've reached a cross-political agreement on that. We have it well in Norway in many ways, but then we know that there are people who are struggling. That we then agree that we are trying to remedy the situation for them as best we can, I am pleased. Now it might seem that the opposition is sewing and complaining a little because we haven't been heard. I have to say that when we see the inter-political consensus in this matter, I think in so far as that criticism is justified. I expect the government parties to mean the same thing on 25 November 2010 as they do today. When the opposition feels depressed, as we did on 25 November, it can help undermine the cross-political consensus that it is, after all, in this matter. And that the opposition needs to notice that, I think the government parties just have to live with. Because when Ola Borten Moe explains that the government needed a little longer time to assess the power situation, it was this assessment that they actually voted against on 25 November. When the representative Heikki Holmås says that this is a good example of how the government listens to the opposition, I wonder what he really meant by that. But enough sewing and complaining – this is a good thing, it's a good thing, and I hope that this can be of use to those who need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e903	Let me first join the last speaker's final appeal: enough sewing and complaining. The working party can join in all that the rapporteur has said, and all the representative Holmås said. This is an important matter. 125 000 households receiving housing benefit are now paid an additional payment of NOK 2 500 for the first household member, and in addition NOK 100 for each additional member. It is a little sad that the only contribution of the opposition in the comments and, in part, here in the debate today is to insist that they were first out with the proposal. It's now the privilege of the opposition to put proposals over the table without investigation, but that's not how a government and a majority can work. It is not disrespectful to consider the economic and other consequences of proposals, rather the opposite. The party of progress has had a lot of splinter in this matter. I would like to remind the representative, Mr Hageset, that the Progress Party proposed to reduce VAT on electricity at the same time last year. It was a proposal that would give each family a reduction in VAT of 215 kroner and the state a proceeds of 660 million dollars. kr. So it was much less accurate and much more expensive than what we're discussing today. As far as the safety of hits is concerned, it may be worth mentioning that businesses too would benefit from the proposals of the Progress Party on VAT reduction. The Labour Party does not compete for the fastest to make proposals. Instead of worrying that they did not get through in the harvest, the opposition should rejoice that they have now been listened to, and that we agree. I think Elizabeth Skogrand said well – housing support is a rigorous, unbureaucratic and targeted measure for those who need it the most. The increase in housing aid is an effective tool to reduce the impact of unexpected high electricity bills on those most affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e916	I am pleased that a Joint Committee supports the proposal for additional support. After a cold winter, many people get high energy bills, and for those with a bad economy, it's a special challenge. Therefore, it is good that we are some about an additional payment to the beneficiaries of the support to cover the high energy costs. About 125 000 households receiving housing support for February will now receive an additional payment. It'll come along. A family of four will e.g. get an extra payment of NOK 2800, and the payment will come around March 10. As we have said from this interlocutory chair, the bust is targeted and unbureaucratic. It is aimed at households with low incomes and high construction costs and is the most important housing social tool we have. It is also a central tool in the fight against poverty. Since the expansion and simplification of the support in 2009, a total of 25 000 new beneficiaries have joined the scheme. I'm very happy about that. An evaluation completed in the new year shows that there are still around 10,000 people who can be supported by the new rules. I would therefore ask the House Bank and the municipalities to continue the good work of making the scheme known, especially to families with children. The Enova and Fafo evaluations concluded that in 2009 the conversion of the underprivileged was a major success and that it has been an important measure in the fight against poverty. Many young people, especially single men, have joined the scheme, but the evaluation also showed that many poor families with children still cannot be supported. Therefore, I would like to take the recommendations from the evaluation to look at the income limits in the bush, which are lower than the poverty limits, and I would like to assess the cost of building. For the bush is good, she seems, she is aimful and unbureaucratic, and many new good of her in a tough bulwark. But we're going to work all the time continuously to make her even better. In the setting, the opposition provides its full support. However, a point is made that in the fall they had a similar suggestion, as the majority of the government parties voted against. I agree with those who have said that today is the day to rejoice that we have received a decision that we agree on, rather than pointing to differences. There's also been a trend in history from the past that I'm not supposed to come up with. We can spend a lot of time on such discussions, but the important thing is to make the decision – the important thing is for those who need it to get help. In parallel with being here today, we have a seminar in the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs with green energy municipalities. It is a potential for energy saving, for energy efficiency improvement, which is also about making housing better and less energy-intensive. There is a large potential in the municipal sector, which we work closely with KS to assess how we can best achieve, and which, of course, must have its place in the notified climate communication. There is a wide range of interventions that are also important for the group with high building costs and low incomes. An important approach would also be that we tend to contribute to the lower energy costs of the homes in which they live, which, of course, will also lead to a better development in the climate struggle. Energy costs and the use of energy in construction are an important issue in this way. But today I am primarily happy to support those who need extra bus pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e931	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e934	Since I have not intended to complain or sew, I only need a small reply. I see in point 4 of the Impact and Economic Survey in the proposition that no further work has been said on this decision that will lead to Nav. Nav provides a continuous current decision. They've done that since October–November. These are six-to-twelve-month decisions. What Nav now has to do is to take a stop decision, a countervailing decision, which will make it conditional on the aid they are now receiving through a very good decision here in the Stortinget. What is my concern is that Nav is now in a reform with an additional expenditure and a large labour pressure. Guides typically have 150-300 clients on whom they now need to make three to five new decisions — all those with power decisions. That's when I'm a little worried about what we're going to do to, first of all, add Nav the resources they need to deal with this decision, and also what we're going to do to make sure that they get the financial support they need.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e944	Of course, it is always the case that some decisions may have implications for other sectors. Then it is important for me to point out that when this matter was discussed in the government, the Minister of Labour was of course involved in those discussions, and has thus seen the height within his framework in order for it to be handled in a good way. This was, of course, a debate that we had in the entire government, where one looked at the different consequences of the decision. So I feel confident that it will be taken care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e949	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e954	The reason why I take the floor again is the statement by the representative Håkon Haugli, who explains that one could not vote in favour of the opposition proposal, that the government needed to assess the matter. That's what I thought, with respect to reporting, is a very bad explanation. In this proposal, one of them asked the government to consider. I would like to read the proposal, which was thus voted down by the position, one more time: ‘The government asks the government to follow closely the evolution of the electricity price, and if an abnormal situation arises on the electricity market, the government is asked to consider using housing aid to remedy the situation of the most disadvantaged.» If one could not vote in favour of this, but had to consider, I would like to know what it is in this proposal that was difficult for the position. It was a very diplomatic and round of proposals that the opposition is making, and that we simply assume it would be unproblematic for everyone to gather around. It wasn't. Then I would have appreciated more if one had been honest and said that an automatic vote against all of the opposition's proposals. Whether you are unanimous or dissenting in the proposals that come from the opposition, they are put down. Because that's how I experience it, and that's how -- I think -- a lot of people experience it, that everything that comes from the opposition is downgraded, regardless of whether you agree with the proposal or not. What I think is a lack of respect for the Storting, because here the majority of people in the big city have said on 25 November that the government should not follow closely the developments in the electricity price and not consider using the bus pay to remedy the situation for the most difficult-minded. So I'm still happy that the government is doing the opposite of what the Greatness says, but I would appreciate one having played with a little bit more open cards and considered proposals that come from the opposition, and actually sometimes also voted for the proposals, if one agrees with them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e966	Of course, the last speaker made me take the floor. With respect to reporting, this is starting to approach a very strange debate. Now I have had the pleasure of being a member of this assembly for five and a half years and have heard a continuous complaint from the opposition that you are not taken into account, that you are never heard, and that the proposals you are promoting are never evaluated. And guess what? If you consider one of the proposals that are being promoted, it's also wrong, and then you start again with unreduced strength, just from the opposite end of the line of reasoning. Secondly, I would like to say that the proposal that was promoted and voted down is also a matter of course. Of course, it is that the government always has obligations to closely monitor the evolution of the power price. You've always done that, and you'll always have to do that. It's a factor in Norwegian society that you always have to deal with. It is clear that whether an abnormal situation arises, whether it is on the electricity market or in and on other markets dealing with supplies of necessities, it is expected that both government and government will react to it in some way. Of course it is. That is exactly what has happened in this case, neither easier nor more difficult or more mysterious than that. And then maybe Hagesets rather than drawing up this debate now and spending time on it, just calm down that now it's a cohesive big deal that makes a unanimous decision that we're now going to have this money paid out as a result of an abnormal power situation and very high energy costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e973	Gærmund Hageseter has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e976	Of course, the opposition is pleased that there is a total accumulation in this matter. However, I did not think that the explanations from the case manager, Ola Borten Moe, are particularly good. He says that the government needed to follow the trend in the electricity price. That was precisely what this proposal was all about, that the Storting asked the government to follow developments in the electricity price carefully and to consider using a bus fee. So the representative, Ola Borten Moe, said on 25 November that the government should not. Then the government has done it anyway – which I am happy for. Then one comes back with one thing, and then the explanation is that the government had to consider this first, i.e. a proposal that the representative Ola Borten Moe voted against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e981	I note that the representative Hagesetter is using the opportunity to vent his frustration over being in opposition. But that is not what this debate is about, and that is not what we should spend time on here today. I also note that the same representative does not comment on the other proposals of the Progress Party, on reduced flow rates, which are much less accurate. I think it would have earned the opposition today to focus on that matter actually is about: that people who need help, now get help.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e986	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2620]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1002	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 60 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated as follows: the Working Party 10 minutes, the Advance Party 10 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Central Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Left 10 minutes and up to 5 minutes to the State Council of Halvorsen. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after submissions by the main speakers of the lots and up to six lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. It is also proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1011	The starting point for today's case is that the government dropped the Time Usage Selection. It was a right and important decision. At the same time, a bit of the rug today is that the Education Association is submitting a study that shows that only 15 pst. teachers in Norwegian primary schools expect to be in the job until they become pensioners. The first reason given that they don't want to be paid is pay. The second reason is time to be a teacher. It shows how important this case is, and how important it is that we do something about it. For all of us who visit many classrooms, who have many teachers, who have a teacher’s past – and a trust machine in the party of teachers – the frustration in this area is extremely great at the moment. The findings in the Time Management Committee are about spending more time on education, professional meetings and competence building, in short on being a teacher. There is a broad consensus on many points about what has been presented. There is agreement that the teacher is actually the most important input in Norwegian school. That's a very important assumption. There is a broad consensus that the principal must have a stronger role as a pedagogical leader. It's important that we agree on that in this room. The principal has an important pedagogical role and should be strengthened in the future. There is also a consensus that the school owner must have a strong consciousness here. The fact that in many municipalities we have moved to a two-level model of school management municipal has led to things getting even worse. The lack of a filter between state authorities, municipal authorities and individual schools has made the pressure on the school even greater. Then there is also a great deal of consensus on the attitude to the problem. In fact, it is important to have this understanding. I'm also glad that there's actually an overall committee that's behind the challenges that PPU presents, in order to be able to use PPU better, adapt it more to the everyday life of school and get a greater variation in the professional base you find in each school. There is also a broad consensus that we need to review the Training Act with this in mind to see if we can simplify it and avoid that it also contributes to red tape. I want to make the challenge visible with two short examples – both from reality. One day, Mother is going to put on little Elise in second grade the new, pink bubble pants, which was very nice two days ago, but that little Elise this day won't wear for everything in life. After talking back and forth, Mom discovers that the reason she doesn't want the pink, new bubble pants on is that two boys in the fourth grade said she got thick in it. Then Mom sends a text message to the teacher and says a little about what happened, and asks the teacher to pick it up when they get to school. Good teachers get such text messages when they sit on the bus for the job. Good teachers take hold of it, sit down with little Elise to make her tell what happened to the two big boys in fourth grade, and what to do with it. Then you can sit down with a class teacher or think of something really clever to work with the two boys in fourth grade, so that they can apologize and maybe behave differently towards Elise in the future. So far so good. The problem is that the most important thing in the rules for what a teacher should do is not one of these. The most important thing is to log the text message, write a separate file number, and report how the text message has been handled. All of this is to be introduced into the student folder to little Elise and to the two boys in fourth grade. Our requirements are related to bureaucracy – not to the creative, good teacher who goes in and actually works on bullying, actually working on the challenges that students feel every day. Example 2: It's made a big 98-page evaluation round to clarify how we're going to evaluate the students. I have to say that for me as a teacher, there was one of the things I really feared about, but that turned out to be much easier when I got professional guidance from the other professionals around me – I had a grudge and thought it would be difficult when I put on my first assessment jobs. But today it's like not only doing a good evaluation, an assessment you can also do in retrospect, because if you start a project on the Viking Age – as a history teacher, I have a rush on all my students through the Viking Age projects – you have to write down a definition of what each character means in this project, before you start it. There's probably an assessment nobody ever in history is going to read. But as a teacher, you have to go in and define what each character should be, before you can start the project at all – which can be a small sub-project in a large educational year. This is bureaucracy that we must live to see. – It was the beginning of what I want to say, about Left’s comments: Some of the problem is related to what Mimi Bjerkestrand in the Education Association said, "We need solutions, not just good intentions." And there are many good intentions in the message, but in the Left's opinion it's too non-committal. We should have set ourselves some targets to bring down the number of guidelines. We should also have set some goals for how we're going to get there. It's kind of the way the education sector works as a big area where we politicians sit at the top and have a lot of good intentions for what we want the school to be – but it's just one to do all the good intentions. There's a little bit too many up here compared to one that's actually going to carry out all that we think you should have. We need action to reduce the number of demands, bring down the guidelines and bring down all the good intentions that lie in texting because a school might be sued in the future. The second is that the Time Usage Committee points out that doing this will actually cost money. It will cost you money to raise your skills. It will cost money to increase adulthood, and it will cost money to bring in other occupational groups. Because there is a great need to get back watchmasters who can have more complex roles, a bit like the janitor had when I went to school. He played a very special role for many students at school and made an important effort. I also believe that there is no place other than Norwegian schools where so many highly educated people work with so little commercial staff to help out. We also need other professional groups to take care of the tasks that teachers are not supposed to do. In particular, we need more nurses, which left has taken up a number of times. We're also proposing a separate school board to go through how we can clean up the number of rules and how we can do the rules we have, clearer, and that we set some clear goals around reduction. We've said 25 pst. We think it's realistic. But the important thing for us is that someone sets some goals for how this is to be achieved. That is why I am delighted to address all the proposals, the proposals No. 1-4, because I'm the first speaker and the left is behind everybody. Then I'd like to bring a little cross of thought in the end, to the Minister of Education. Because when you read the Time Service report, and how the different tests are perceived by the teachers, there is one thing that strikes me: All the teachers say that they want more student assessment, level assessment of each student, but that national tests take too long. I don't see why these two things are going to conflict. After all, good national tests must serve as a student assessment to assist level placement. If we haven't done the national tests. If not, we have to work a lot more to make them sound different to the teacher's ears and have the goals that teachers want. So to me, it's a thought-seeker that I think the whole of political Norway should be working on, how the desire for more feedback on the level of students should be met with the view that national tests take too long. There really shouldn't be a conflict here. It would actually be possible to develop the two objectives at the same time, if we do our job well enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1047	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1052	The question of the use of time by the teacher is too important to allow it to be the subject of symbolic policies or easy solutions. It sounds so easy to introduce a rule board, so that we politicians can only push responsibility ahead of us. The paradox is to introduce a new bureaucracy to remove another one, I'll lie down. My question to the case-speaker – which I expect has looked into this issue well – is whether she can give me e.g. five specific proposals on which national regulations and rules are to be removed from the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1059	Then Gieleth should listen to my post, because I tried to be quite specific with two exact teacher examples in the way we are doing assessments up to the tests today. We have to have an assessment of the regulations, they have become far too detailed, too bureaucratic and are never read. The other is more profound. It's that we've got a school where you've just focused on student rights and not looked at the balance of it in school. In addition, we have a school that is so alive to be sued for something that there are actually a lot of routines that make sure you don't get sued, and not so many routines that make sure you actually do your job as a teacher. This is what we want to live. And then we actually think that we need to have concrete goals, that we need someone to do the job -- that it's that simple. That's what we've suggested: someone to do the job, concrete goals to achieve it. And I've given the examples.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1066	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1069	There is a film on cinema that has attracted attention, perhaps to a greater extent beyond the borders of Norway than in Norway. The Trollhunter's name is it, and it was hunted on a troll. One of the funny moments of the movie is when the wizard has to fill out the spell forms every time he takes a troll. Many policemen, nurses, business owners — and teachers — will hopefully laugh at that scene, because they will know each other. The crash message about time usage is more important than anyone might think. The school's most important resource and what we spend most is the teachers, as the rapporteur has also stated clearly. The way teachers spend their time with students and in preparation and afterwork determines what kind of school children and young people go to. It is the teacher's framework conditions and efforts in the classroom every single day that determine how Norwegian school is, and will be, in the years to come. This is why the timing and follow-up of the Time Management Committee is very important for the school. As the rapporteur has stated, there is a great deal of consensus between the parties. Good management is one of the most important elements for good time use. A number of interventions have been taken to strengthen the management function both at school and at school owner level. The establishment of coaching corps, requirements for quality report by school owners, leadership school programmes, principal schools and measures to promote teacher leadership skills are important examples. The importance of the principal as a pedagogical and administrative director of each school should be strengthened. It should be a goal that all the principals should have formal qualifications in school management, but then the municipalities must ensure that it is set aside enough time to allow the principal to be a principal and to spend time on pedagogical tasks. Today many Vice-Chancellors say that too much of the time disappears into administrative work, janitorial services and things that simply have to be fixed there and then. I am concerned that the principals themselves feel that the main importance of their working time is linked to such tasks and not to pedagogical management. We need a certain bureaucracy in school, for example. office staff and other staff who can handle day-to-day administrative tasks and have other practical tasks. This dimension should be borne in mind by all those who criticise the bureaucracy for being the big, ugly wolf. A good bureaucracy that relieves the good principals and the good teachers is good, it makes the school better. It's if bureaucracy grows too big, it's going to be a problem. In addition, school owners must have sufficient capacity to provide vocational guidance to schools and to follow overall quality developments in schools. I am therefore concerned that we are seeing a trend in which more and more municipalities are building up their school-based competence. The Workers’ Party has previously called for ‘rescue’ the principals of the school. The most important thing is that everyone has to have a robust school-based environment. If not, municipalities should cooperate to get it – or join forces to achieve it. The promise of knowledge led to a lot of local work. It is therefore good that action is being taken to support local curriculum work. I encourage the municipalities to use this guidance material. A unanimous committee believes that it is high time to involve other groups of professionals in school. The Time Usage Committee is also clear that professional groups other than teachers can carry out many of the current school-based tasks that teachers experience as additional tasks that they have been required to perform, such as practical tasks, follow-up to school kissing, food-serving, administrative tasks and medication. In particular, strengthening the health care and the special educational support system as well as the counselling service is something we need to focus on in the future to improve the school and relieve teachers. Many people want to spend a lot of time in school and especially in Norway. According to an OECD survey, Norway is one of the countries where teachers feel the desire for management from three teams — from each school, from each municipality and from the state. In most countries, school is usually run by one of these actors, not by all three at once. So it is obvious that we have a management problem in Norway. I think this is about many actors having ambitions – mostly with good intentions – to make the school better. Therefore, some of the important things about this message may be that it receives as much attention and receives the serious treatment it deserves. So I'd like to commend the government that by addressing the challenges, putting down the Time Usage Committee and presenting a separate big message about the theme, it has raised the time spent by teachers on the political agenda. Moreover, a very important and concrete measure is that from now on, national authorities should take all new measures at school. We need to be more aware of how we use the resources – i.e. to the greatest extent also the teachers. Time testing may be the most important tool in the state. But we should be honest that this easily conflicts with other political goals and good intentions we have for the school. The introduction of bullying agents and any legal change in view of the consequences of long-term bullying – which we are discussing a lot in the media and outside this room at the moment – will result in increased pressure and demands for documentation. According to Budstikka, which is the locality of Asker and Bærum, there was one thing at Hövik school in Bærum where the countyman recently criticized the school for the poor follow-up of a student who had been bullied for a long time. In their answer, the school says that they should be better documented below. Better legal certainty often leads to more bureaucracy. This is the case in all areas of society, but it is necessary to ensure that any breaches of the rules and regulations are documented. My point in this context is that new measures in the fight against bullying that we can be mutually agreed on are necessary and absolutely in place, too, must be time tested, like everything else, as an example. The debate on time use in school should not be the subject of symbolic policies or attempts at solutions that are easily understood. It is up to everyone, both national authorities, school owners, the parties and organisations, to make it easier to contribute to the time spent in school being as it should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1099	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1102	Good bureaucracy in the school that relieves the principal, says Aasen – which is supported by the Progress Party. There is little concrete from the government's point of view about getting other occupational groups into school. What measures will the government take to recruit and enable the school owner to set up other occupational groups? It is not that the school owner does not want to hire more commercial staff, health sisters or others who can relieve, but most often it is about economics, as well as that there may be recruitment problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1109	There may be many reasons why there are not so many occupational groups in Norwegian school. It has a story in itself, and I'm not going to blame in that way. There has been a discussion about which professional groups should and should be in school, and we see more transparency in the political debate today than we might have seen before. As the representative Thorsen was about, this is about money. In Stortinget we deal with everything that has to do with money in relation to the budgets. We're not dealing with the state budget now, it's coming to the autumn. What I can assure Thorsen is that these are the government parties concerned with. We're concerned about how to get more professionals into school. We're going to be busy with that, too, in the context of the high school announcement, which we're currently working on. This topic is highly updated, and I am very pleased that there is a broad political consensus that this is something we want more of and not less of.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1119	I noticed that the representative Marianne Aasen used the first part of his post to talk about how important it is to get other professional groups into school. It is also about seeing the school in conjunction with other sectors that make important contributions — it may be in the form of health care sisters, or there may be other types of professional staff who can play a role in the school. There is today a proposal from the opposition asking the Stortinge to participate in such a debate and to make concrete proposals on how to take action to make school a venue where more people can relieve both school leaders and teachers. How will the representative Marianne Aasen explain that the position is in favour of such a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1126	I can explain it this way: there's always a balance in what we're going to rule from here, and what we're going to rule in the municipalities and in the individual school. It's hard, I think, to decide which types of professional groups are more needed in each municipality, in each school. In some places, more environmental workers will be needed; in others, you will need a better offer for health sisters, or a better psychosomatic offer; in others, there may be commercial staff, who have been built into many municipalities, which I was in my post. I think it is difficult to decide in Stortinget that it should be like this and that standardised in all schools and in all municipalities. We need to have a more pragmatic approach to that. But I think it is right that Stortinget gives a clear signal that we want more of that type of staff and not fewer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1133	The last replicator is Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1136	It said'rejected' on the screen, but I tolerate being rejected, I do not give up so easily! I want to ask questions about a comment. There is a comment on which the entire committee agrees, which we outline a number of tasks which we believe teachers should not do, and which the Time Usage Committee has pointed out. It's like janitorial services, school kissing, food service, administrative tasks and medication. But then the government parts jump out of the sentence where it says that we ‘will stress that the teacher should be a teacher — and not everything else. These members therefore believe that the tasks referred to earlier by the Time Usage Committee should not be part of the working day of the teachers». Why do the government parties disagree?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1148	I have to admit that I did not fully understand exactly what was being asked. But it's been a discussion, for example. about medication, whether it is the teacher who is going to do that medication, or whether it is going to and does so by health professionals. The most important thing is that good training is given. It may be inappropriate and also a time limit for health professionals for the matter, which is also lacking in Norwegian municipalities, whether they should be present at any time of medication. The fact that we have to decide and control it in detail is unfortunate. At the same time, medication should not take too much time in the classroom from the teacher, if that is the problem with time use.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1153	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1156	In respect for Storting's time usage, I don't necessarily spend 10 minutes, but we'll see. I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and, in so far, the Chairman of the Committee for its good work. I want to start with an anecdote, a little derailment. It is true that fighting and unrest are also an important time thief in school. On average, it eats one and a half years of basic ten-year education. I'm not sure if anyone is suggesting, reintroducing the spanish pipe to school, is the way to go either, to say it like that. I am reasonably sure that violence against children does not contribute to reducing the time spent in school. If it had, I think we should still be careful to address that debate. I want to get hold of something that the Education Association said yesterday. Mimi Bjerkestrand, who is the leader of the network, sent out yesterday a press release saying that the Federation of Education is pleased that the challenges in the school are clearly agreed on, but that it is disappointed that the concrete measures are absent. Now it is my role to be disappointed with the government, and it is clear that I could have wanted more concrete action. I believe, however, that we must embrace the fact that the Stortinget once again has a debate on school policy and that we agree on the challenges. I see this as a clear order from the majority of the committee, and in so far as a unanimous committee, to actually continue to work on this, and as an important and priority task, as the committee sees it. I hope the Council of State takes this invitation seriously. I expect that she will address how she looks at herself further in her post. At the same time, I believe that there is no doubt that the vast majority of the municipalities in Norway are now run by parties represented in the Church, Education and Research Committee at Stortinget. It is clear that – no matter how much I believe in the Minister of Knowledge, there is no minister of knowledge in Norway who is able to solve these challenges alone. Here you also have to have the municipalities on the team. It is therefore gratifying that knowledge politicians – hopefully the leading knowledge politicians in all major Norwegian parties – agree that this is a challenge that needs to be addressed. There is no doubt that the first possibility for the Council of State to address this to the Stortingen is the notification of high school, which has already been notified this spring. Then you have the opportunity to grab hold, and grip needs to be taken. If we're going to solve the challenges that the school has, which I have the impression that we're agreed on, we're dependent on having qualified teachers in school. If we are to get qualified teachers at school – I am not going to go into the pay debate, it is going to take another day – working in school must be seen as meaningful, both for those who are 18th, 19th and 20th year olds today, and also for those who are in school today and are approaching 62 years old. I'm not going to take an AFP debate either, but we have to do what we can to keep the 62-year-olds in school. We know that time use is one of the challenges that needs to be solved to meet it. I am pleased that the Council of State in the Newspaper today already addresses the challenge I met in the Newspaper yesterday in terms of the bureaucracy that has arisen in order to provide a basis for assessment at school. I'm glad that the Council of State stresses that getting a character basis in high school is not only a responsibility for the school, but also for the individual student. Already there we are a step closer to less bureaucracy in school. If teachers can avoid creating one or maybe two samples of a theme, it is better than making three-four samples of the same theme. Another issue that the Committee faces as an important challenge in addressing the time-use problem is competence at all levels of school. To the extent that I want to give praise to the government, I have now set up a training plan for Norwegian school leaders – a principal education might be called it. There you're on the right track to some degree. The capacity could have been bigger there too, but it's at least joyous, what's happened. When it comes to continuing training of teachers, I think we have to assume that it is now time that even though the municipalities have better finances, which I often hear from the red-green government, than before, the municipalities do not have the opportunity to fulfill all the promises made by the government. That is why the local economy is under pressure, and therefore I think it is important to make a commitment from the Storting – and the state – side in terms of financing continuing training for teachers. Then the committee leader was the Aasen in this with school owners and competence at municipal level. Norwegian school has been exposed to a whole bunch of pilot projects up through the years, but the role of school owners has also been the subject of an experiment, the two-level model, where school competences have been removed at municipal level. I believe in a way that if we are to have a knowledge-based school policy in this country, it is time for us to jointly send the signal to Norwegian municipalities to carry out serious quality development at municipal level – preferably, as suggested by the committee chairman, in fewer municipalities than today – we must have school skills at municipal level, not just in schools. Of course, it's also about the fact that while the principal de facto is the municipality's top school policy authority, it's the principal who has to take care of the correspondence with the outside world. It is also known as bureaucracy and was something we should try to facilitate in this debate. Then giving the principals the opportunity to be principals and pedagogical leaders is obviously important. But then the teachers can't solve all the challenges in school. When I grew up, we had the name ‘school sister’. Once the school sister has disappeared, it is not only because the profession is now called nurse, but the occupational category, both child nurses and nurses, has disappeared completely out of school. There is one example of a profession that could relieve teachers for a good deal of work that they are currently required to do. Then I see that there are no concrete measures today to achieve this, but there is once again an excellent opportunity for the Council of State to present the high school message, to try to put into practice what a unanimous committee now agrees on. I also hope that, in the light of this debate, a debate can be held on practical education. I've said it from this pulpit before, I intend to say it now, and I intend to say it in the context of the high school message, that if the best specialised educators, those who have the best education to work with children, are set to work with paper, we fail. We get these people out to school, I think we're going to do more, and we're going to make better use of a very competent resource group in Norway than they're currently sitting in offices outside the school and mainly dealing with paper, not people, who they're actually trained to work with. Then I do not agree with the Aasen representative’s approach to this with a bullying agent – or as the Progress Party proposes: an agent to work with all parts of the Training Act. I think we can agree that if we measure, there's one question, and someone says we measure too much. I think we should discuss what we're measuring. We have a comment with the Right in today's setting. No one is afraid to go to school because someone has forgotten to fill out a form, but revealing those who are afraid to go to school is what's important, and that's what we have to end up with. So we need some measurement, but I think it makes sense to have a debate about what we're measuring at school. But a bully doesn't have to mean more bureaucracy; on the contrary, it could mean less bureaucracy, because you get a group dedicated to working for this purpose. Now is the time – that was the time we were going to discuss – and when it comes to measurement, there has been a debate in this room earlier. The right-hand side has been impacted for more measurement. I'm very happy about that. But it's not that school gets better the more we measure. I think we all have to send that signal to our local politicians. So I'd like to say once again that to solve the challenges in Norwegian school, it's primarily about recruiting as competent teachers as possible. If we're going to do it, we have to get the school day for teachers and students to be as meaningful and as full as possible of unnecessary time use.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1198	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1201	The representative, Lien, refers to the use of time, for example: he says it's important that teachers don't spend so much time doing tests. And the Progress Party in this article shows a touching commitment to the time use of the teachers. But on Sunday we could read in Dagbladet about Siv Jensen's plan to coup Norway, and one of these coup proposals was that all students should have individual development plans. I guess the Progress Party really means all primary school students, and this school year actually counts the 615 005 hopeful students. Has the Progress Party actually time tested this proposal to introduce 615 005 development plans for all pupils in all municipalities? Could it be that the individual really is losing on that there will be so much bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1211	It is possible that my memory is starting to fail, but I believe that we have discussed several times in this room the students' ability to take a higher-level course. I have had the impression that even the most extreme parties on the opposite side of the Progress Party have agreed that it is a goal that as many students as possible learn at the level they are at, professionally speaking. How to solve this purely administratively is, of course, another matter, but it must be done without dramatically increasing bureaucracy in the Norwegian school. At least I thought, as I say again, that there was a consensus in this room among all the parties in the Stortinget that it was important that all Norwegian students should have the opportunity to develop professionally and get education at the level they actually are at. If the Workers' Party has gone away from it since Christmas, it's okay to get confirmed here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1216	A reply should probably be most questionable critical, but I now have the first thought of being commendable, both in relation to the post in general and in relation to – and that is my question – whether I perceive Lien correctly when he almost distanced himself from two of the opposition's critical remarks. One thing is that government is not going to give detailed instructions to municipalities and county councils on this issue today, but rather give an invitation and invitation to further cooperation. I interpret Tord Lien so that he believes the same thing in his post. And the second is that we are criticized for not providing concrete sums of money related to this, but, on the other hand, writes – and I think that is very reasonable – ‘that the government as a principle, gives municipalities financial compensation for new tasks’. I hear Tord Lien as if he also agrees with the approach that the majority here has taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1222	I'm so confused by all this rose! I have to thank you for it first. I hope at least that I have not given the impression that I believe that shopping and government will govern Norwegian municipalities in detail. On the contrary, I say here there are seven parties that agree very much, and it's also about the fact that the knowledge of the school is coming faster and faster, and then it's important that we all contribute to spreading this knowledge down to our local politicians. So I guess I don't think it's the Progress Party that has the most to answer for in relation to money use. We are not in favour of proposal No. 2, precisely because it states that all the measures will be implemented and financed as proposed by the Time Usage Committee. We do not agree with that, because we believe it is important to take that debate in a broader context, namely the budget debate, the coming harvest. We expect the Council of State and the Government to be offensive to this and will take that debate when it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1229	I think it is good that there is such a broad consensus about the time spent in school and that we are going to review it. What I think is a little funny is the one note in the attitude of the Progress Party where they say on the one hand that they think it's right that the students should participate in securing their character basis, while at the same time making it possible to let them get away with just taking one exam. I just wonder if the representative could explain a little about how this coincides with the training obligation, and besides, it's probably not completely free of charge, either in terms of economics or time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1236	I just have to be allowed to say that I liked the line from Aksel Hagen the very best today. There's nothing funny about it. So, as a high school student, you can already go to the private school. You can't do that until one year after you've had a stand. What we want to problem and debate – and I feel that the Council of State largely agrees with me in today's Newspaper – is that teachers actually spend a lot of resources on students who are not interested in being present at school. We think it makes more sense to spend resources on those students who are present at school who want to learn something. And if the Center Party thinks it's the most sensible thing to use the funds and resources in school for those students who aren't interested, we'll just take note of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1243	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1246	I would like to thank the rapporteur on the matter, Trine Skei Grande, for a good job on the matter and for a thorough presentation today of the position that lies here. However, the Right believes that there is reason to note that government parties are rather reluctant to commit to progress and concrete measures, which are crucial if we are to be able to clear up room for more time for learning in Norwegian school. The expectations of the Publicly Appointed Time Usage Committee were high, and out in school, many are now waiting for what comes out of the cleaner Time Use Committee invited. It is not obvious that public samples provide unanimous settings, but this wide-ranging sample did so. In its recommendation to the government, the sample listed a number of concrete measures that different parties in the school can and must address in order for the school to concentrate on its core tasks: equiping students with good basic skills and sound expertise. The aim is that school time is actually used for learning activities and that Norwegian school students should thus be able to get the most benefit from compulsory schooling. Therefore, the Right fully endorses the recommendations of the Time Usage Committee. Right here will point to good school and class management, skills development for teachers throughout the career, significantly fewer national action plans and strategies, clearer legislation and legislation and simplification of documentation requirements, other occupational groups entering school, and, last but not least, good practices for cooperation and communication between home and school. The school itself has long called for good helpers, because many students need follow-up beyond the purely professional. The list of measures from the sample is long, and there are obviously many pieces that need to be put in place if we can achieve the desired results. The more important it is to get started, the more important it is to make progress in work. The Time Usage Committee has also pointed out that the school is experiencing some sort of reform fatigue. It underlines the importance of taking Vice-Chancellors and teachers seriously when asking for relief for tasks that are outside the field of pedagogics and subjects. Therefore, the Stortinget should be presented with concrete measures to recruit other groups of professionals to the school. The right also believes it would be to send an even clearer signal to the school that the Storting is really serious, if one wants to commit to a stepping-up plan for actions requiring ‘essential public appropriations’, as the Time Usage Committee expresses itself. In the right, it is not satisfactory, as the government is doing, to point to the municipalities as school owners and thus believe that the measures will be implemented. It is clear to the right that school owners also have a responsibility, but will be equally clear that national authorities need to provide full funding for new reforms and tasks that local authorities are expected to solve. In the right, developments in time use in schools require careful follow-up in the future, school authorities at all levels need to show restraint in new orders and put everything in place to simplify the everyday lives of school leaders and teachers. In order to keep up the pressure and to make sure that the measures announced by the government in the big news actually lead to a change in time use in school, the Right today promotes a proposal asking the government to carry out a new monitoring of time use in school by 2013, so that the Storting can get a confirmation of whether we are on the right track or not. The TALIS study conducted by the OECD confirms that more than one in five teachers report having to deal with disciplinary problems and want to receive training in order to become a clearer leader in the class. Barriers and unrest in Norwegian school are not new, and now the patience of the school authorities has to be over. If we add up the time that is actually lost, maybe this is the worst time thief in Norwegian school. The student survey has also repeatedly confirmed teacher feedback. The students ’ answers show that troubles and unrest are a major problem. It is my clear impression that the students are not satisfied with the condition of the thing either and would like to have a different order in the classroom. The right is therefore disappointed that the government and the majority do not show more offensive tactics in addressing this particular challenge. The government undertakes to develop the provision of school-based continuing education in classroom management, but does not say anything about when this offer is to be made or what kind of ambition you have to implement in school. Right-wing wants the Minister of Knowledge to respond today when teachers in the country can expect to receive this very important training. The Time Use Committee pointed to good school and classroom management as perhaps the most important measure to free time for learning and to enable teachers to be just teachers. In a press release when the government announced. St. 19 for 2010–2011, the Minister of Knowledge just underlined the need for better school and classroom management and that time thieves in school should now be taken. Right should be right – some major municipalities, like Oslo, have, among other things. Taken as an initiative for master training for their own school leaders. At national level, the government has contributed to the provision of various educational services for school leaders, including the principal school. The aim must be to enable all the principals, regardless of school size, to develop their leadership skills and help many to call ‘mummy’ in school to be reduced to an absolute minimum. Effective time use is just as important in small schools as in larger schools, whether we agree that teachers should spend as much of their time as possible on subjects and with their students. The right supports the commitment to empowerment of school leaders and sees it as a particularly important tool for raising student performance and ensuring a high-quality school throughout the country. There is a good cause for concern to the right when national tests and supervision by the county officials have revealed significant differences in quality and ability to intervene and put in place the appropriate measures where the results fail. I also recall the warnings from the director of the Education Directorate, Petter Skarheim, who last year pointed out that failing school-based competence, especially in smaller municipalities, can mean goodbye to an equivalent training offer in Norway. This is a threat a total collapse must take the most seriously. Under the school owner, management is exercised by each school at two levels — the school level and the class level. However, when you read the message, it is difficult to find a level playing field in classroom management as in school management. For each of our 3,000 principals, we probably have more than ten times as many teachers, who will lead in Norwegian classrooms. In the Right's view, this is where we find the worst time thief, trouble and unrest, which means that education doesn't start at the right time. And here is probably the greatest potential for taking back time to learning. Then it's urgent to give all the country's teachers the necessary fill of competence so that they can become natural authorities in the class again. Therefore, in the pursuit of time thieves, the government must show greater financial will to meet the teachers’ desire to increase their skills in classroom management. The Minister of Knowledge also stated in the presentation of the Storing Message: ‘Good management is a prerequisite for better time use’. We're 100 pst. Agreed. Then it's all the more important that you put the resources where you know that the worst time thieves are, so you're sure you hit the nail on your head. We know that all students will be served with a better and more well-organized learning environment. It will provide better learning, and it will definitely also provide a better opportunity to tackle one of the school's biggest problems, namely bullying, which deprives many students of a lot of learning in their schooling. There is a lot of talk about the so-called practicalism of newly-trained teachers feeling in meeting with Norwegian school reality. The dream of being able to cultivate their subjects and having time for each individual student is too much of a dream – at least you say it. Right-wing believes this is unfortunate and believes it can explain that many teachers lose motivation and leave school. From a recruitment perspective, this is bad advertising for the teaching profession. We can't afford that in a situation where Norwegian school will need tens of thousands of new teachers in the years to come. Then it is more important than ever that the school appears to be an exciting and attractive job for new students. Without a new and higher level of competence than today, it will be difficult to raise the performance of Norwegian students, not only internationally but also on national tests. Recruitment of many and highly qualified teachers is crucial for the further quality development of initial training. Although the government in the Storing Message points out the direction in line with the recommendations of the Time Management Committee, I cannot help but say that the message also refers to a lot of non-binding talk. Right-wing calls for greater courage to clean up the conglomerate of multidisciplinary action plans, we call for greater willingness to simplify the work of adapted training and comprehensive special education-related procedures, and we call for an obligatory plan to ensure that all school leaders and teachers are in a position to achieve their management skills within a given time. I take this up with me what the proposal on the right is on its own, no. 5th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1293	The representative Elisabeth Aspaker has taken up the proposal to which she referred. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1298	The right believes that the message is not binding enough, I understand that. That's why my question is about where the Right Rule is. Nowhere do I meet as many teachers as in Oslo as I do when it comes to time usage. There, the school agency has set Norway’s record, and perhaps also almost world record, in the number of quality assessments, tests, tests, surveys, reports, user surveys, documentation requirements, etc. I wonder what the Right has intended to do with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1303	It is quite right that Oslo has a very ambitious school policy. It's also the case that Oslo has perhaps the country's most complex student mass. This has meant that those who run in Oslo today have actually taken many steps to ensure that you have knowledge of the school for which you are responsible, and that you should then also be able to target measures to a greater extent than you have done in the past. That's why Oslo School also achieves very good results, despite the challenges that lie in the student masses. I agree with the representative Marianne Aasen that when you get knowledge and you're sure that you meet, you can also go on your own and see if there's any reason to relax on any demands. But first you have to know and know the school well so that you can possibly go to such a step.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1310	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1313	I'm now going to surprise myself and not take this standard anti-New-Public-Management post – at least not the first few minutes – but start in a slightly different way. Our society is being red taped, for good and bad and for various reasons, in both the private and public sectors and in both the private and public training sectors. The need for red tape and bureaucracy is a good thing, and is actually a necessary prerequisite for, among other things. a good school, a knowledge-based training. Unnecessary red tape, on the other hand, is a scourge. I tried to pick up red tape from my own time as a student and student, without any food. I've got enough memory. On the other hand, as a father, I have a lot of memories of a school where the information flow was too small and too random, both for me as a father and for the student. A bit similar: as a local government representative in the 1990s, I had far too little knowledge and insight in the Lillehammer school as a representative of the school owner. We received little information from the local government, and – it is a cross of thought now in retrospect – we asked for little in the local government. A third example of my own life: when I entered the college system in 1985, I came into a clearly undermanaged system. In fact, bureaucracy was too small, not highly valued by our scientific staff. This affected not least the students, who were very much given any administrative abilities and interests to amanuence and professors. And management knew very little about what was going on in lecture halls and in research. I choose to say this initially to remind you that we do not have to have a debate in which administration, reporting, knowledge acquisition, information exchange and bureaucracy are necessarily used as a shell word. With quality, much of this fits well. Too little is a problem, and too much – not least if it is a combination of much, stupid, empty and mistrustful data collection – is both irritating and resource-consuming. This last one is much debated, among other things. under the VGN New Public Management, or public sector market management models. And it is precisely the debate that made the Council of State so affordable in its time that it took the initiative of the Time Usage Committee and later on to this useful notification, which is a very important work in terms of both situation description and action. We have had several articles where this is underlined here today. So it's very important to remember that the great work and the debate we have now marks more the start of a clean-up and a simplification, not the final answer. Among other things, the Time Usage Committee lacks a review of what is going on in higher education. It is also missing in the Storing Message. But it is in our entire system that it is primarily in a big message that we, as a state – government and greatness – can make our views known. We cannot directly believe in what the actual school owners – municipalities and county municipalities – should do. That's the system of alerts and decisions here in the hall. Before I go on here, and certainly in any post no. two, I would like to make three-four main points that I think it is important to include in this debate, first of all a more general consideration in relation to the big debate often referred to as New Public Management. Fortunately, the school area is largely infected by such market-inspired governance models. Thank you so much for that! What's interesting, however, not least for a red-green politician, is that the right-hand welfare model, including school, which they are now launching as their alternative way of organizing school and welfare, is a model that will really mean a strong bureaucracy of society. It is not least characterized by the fact that services are to be purchased from private operators. As soon as we start with the way we organise an offer, we'll be on order-executor models, and then we'll be on contract models, and then we'll be on something that by definition is basically bureaucratic. A lot of documents have to be put in place here, a lot of contract bureaucracy has to be in place, just to make this work. If it doesn't work out – we just got some examples that one buys such services without, among other things. putting on a necessary tell-tale – get such a condition as, for example: is revealed in the summarised Municipal Report today, where Adecco now admits illegal operations at all its hospitals. This is a consequence of the bureaucratic model on the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1335	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1339	I get well back to the representative Hagen and say that I think he kept a user's post. It was until the last 30 seconds, when he went into the trap that he always does when he's talking about New Public Management. Then I found out that it was time to ask for the word. I am so lucky that I have been allowed to be a growing-up politician in Trondheim in the period 2003–2005. Then we introduced a single price finance for the public school in Trondheim. As the President and the representative will be familiar with, Trondheim – regrettably, many say – has been run by the red-greens for a period, and was also in the period 2003–2005. Is it true that Aksel Hagen believes that this is an example of New Public Management and that the full-cost financing of the public school in Trondheim should be abolished?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1346	I do not know about the unit-price financing model in Trondheim. I know it in Uppland, and there we have a combination of basic funding and something that we could call unit price financing in addition, which to some extent is seaworthy for the number of students going to school. It has nothing to do with New Public Management. My New Public Management criticism was that instead of providing our own services within a municipal or county administration model, we are starting a purchase of services on the outside. Then we get into a red tape problem that will make the situation even worse than what we are discussing here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1351	SV is known to be a party that is not afraid to commit either economically or otherwise. In this case and when it comes to school, which is supposed to be a fantasizing matter for the party, one is not willing to commit to how the school should actually be able to access more post-secondary education, new professional groups – I could come up with the whole list, which the Time Usage Committee also does, and which then also has a clear price tag. How will the representative Aksel Hagen of the party also called the school party explain such a turnaround?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1358	Suffering if I have been here now well one year, I have not waited for the form of work in Stortinget. What I've learned about, not least when I was a state politician, was that it was especially in budgetary work that we agreed on what was right and right, and how we were going to finance it in the future. I have understood that here on the Stortinget, at least from the opposition side, there are still individual issues and commitments and believe very strongly that one should put in place the concrete sums and the concrete measures. What Aspaker is asking for here, we're constantly working on in the Committee and in our groups, and there are key elements in the budgetary work now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1363	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1366	It is an important message we have to deal with today, and it is good that there is a broad political consensus on it. There are high expectations related to school — expectations from students, parents, teachers and authorities. It's right to have expectations of what we're left with after completing primary school, but it's also good to have awareness of what we want, and what we have the opportunity to achieve with the time we have at our disposal. Norwegian students today are 13–14 years of age at primary school. Not only has school time been expanded in the number of years, but the number of hours has also increased in several rounds. In addition, we have had a number of reforms, strategy plans and tests. What we haven't used so much force on, on the other hand, is to figure out what we actually spend time on, and what promotes learning. I'm glad the government reduced the Time Usage Committee. The review of the sample has been very useful and has provided a good and concrete overview of the overall time use and a good basis for critical assessment. This applies to us, both as politicians and as national school authorities, who need to assess how new demands and demands come out in everyday life for teachers and school leaders. Does the purpose correspond to the time cost? Also for those who practice out in School-Norway, consciousness is useful in relation to time use. There are still differences of opinion about what actually steals the time. Most of the areas that the Time Usage Committee has pointed to are already mentioned, so I want to focus on a few of those that the Center Party considers to be most important. It's management and documentation. The centre party believes we need to keep a strong focus on leadership. Here we have to work on every level. As I have already mentioned, it is important that from the state level we facilitate that they at the leadership level in the municipalities and at each school get enough time to do a good job. Awareness of strategies, guidance and national requirements is a key. In my opinion, the government has responded in a good way so far on how they will follow this up. The municipalities as a school owner must also take their responsibilities. Organization in many municipalities in the late years has led to the schoolship between the councillor and the principal being lost. Therefore, too much of the time spent by the principals goes into administrative work towards the municipal management. The centre party therefore believes that all municipalities must have their own school-based responsibility to take overall responsibility. This could relieve the principals of too much administrative work and give more time to direct development work internally at school. The principal is a key figure in the achievement of the Knowledgelift goal of higher quality and better performance in Norwegian school. The principal shall be pedagogically responsible in his/her school, at the same time as being tied to the municipal level. Then to the teachers. They're the most important resource in school. It doesn't help how many computers you have, if your teacher is poor. Therefore, teacher institutions and school owners must ensure that we have teachers who carry out the teaching of ‘structure, knowledge and commitment’, which the notification establishes. Then it is important that you have the tools you need to get started quickly, that you are well prepared, have professional knowledge and are ready for the unexpected. The Time Service report shows that teachers seem to spend too much time at joint meetings at school, on documentation about individual students, on local curriculum work and reporting to school owners and school managers. In order to enable teachers to teach, plan and assess, it is important that principals, future principals and teachers participate in continuing training in management. The second point I want to dwell on is documentation. Documentation is necessary to increase the learning effect and to provide guidance for both school owner and teacher. Nevertheless, a critical review of what is sufficient for the school and the students to receive the help they need is necessary. Similarly, municipalities also need to carefully consider what is necessary for testing and reporting beyond what is provided from the national level. We also hear about schools that spend a lot of time training for the tests to get out of comparisons. The latter is clearly misunderstood competition and an unnecessary time thief. We want tests that can help the municipalities, the school and the individual learn to increase the learning effect for the students based on ordinary education, not to see how you do it if you practice long enough on a specific test. We must exempt teachers from unnecessary reporting, but not from new methods and good class management. Evaluation to contribute to better education and learning is necessary, and there we have been too poor in Norwegian school so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1394	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1397	In the contribution from the case rapporteur, it was clarified the need for teachers to be teachers, and it has been left in the rest of the debate. I also understand that Anne Tingelstad Wøien is busy. She herself has a background that teaches, and knows what it means to be engrossed with all sorts of other things. The message has many good actions, some very natural ones, I would say, but also some concrete ones that you can go further. To be even more concrete, the Right and the other opposition parties have, among other things. proposed that the government return to Stortinget with concrete measures to increase the inclusion of other occupational groups. This will be concrete and will be a concrete follow-up. But this is not going to be part of the Central Party and the government parties. Can Tingelstad Wøien explain why? Is she sure that this will go by itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1409	Yes, I actually have faith in the municipalities, and I believe that it must be up to the municipalities to assess the navigability of the types of groups they should have into the school. Then we can participate and contribute in relation to the health sister, etc., or what kind of staff we're going to have in the school leisure system, and whether we're going to have the janitor, etc. We can give you signals about that. But I would think that Norway is so different that someone today actually has the headmaster, someone still has the janitor, and someone might have a good health sister arrangement. So I don't want to stand in Stortinget and dictate what the individual municipality should have of the kind of other employees in the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1414	I want to follow up the remark I pointed out to Marianne Aasen and be a little more concrete, so maybe the government parties will answer a little bit more concretely. Among the tasks outlined by the Committee as a whole are the janitorial duties, follow-up to school pillows, food service, administration and medication. There are tasks that do not really belong to what the Time Usage Committee refers to. But the government parties don't say teachers shouldn't do this. So what tasks are government parties considered appropriate for teachers? Is it medication, is it the food they do, is it the organization of school kisses? What does the government think teachers should do?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1420	I think I'd like to refer to what I said earlier: I think it's a little different around School-Norway, simply. I think that in some cases it might be right to contribute to medication. I've been a little bit in the same situation, where I refused to take the medication. But I think it has to be discussed in each municipality and in each school how you want it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1425	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1428	We've had a year behind us in the Norwegian school where teachers have tented and counted and documented and documented to provide us with a basis for this discussion. I think some people counted so much that they wondered if it was at all allowed to operate day work along the way in this census. Someone might have also asked if we should have put down a sample that had measured how much time they have spent counting how much time they spend. The result of this must at least be that as politicians we deliver something to the teachers, then the educational role of teachers is released in school. Getting time to be a teacher is one of the most important things a teacher can do for the school today. Many in the committee today have talked about leadership, both class management and school management, and how important it is to have good practice to do what you really need to do in school. Many have also been involved in this reporting and documentation — all the circulars coming. I have tried to read some of these. I count myself as a common upward person, and some of them have a length, a language, and a form that makes it quite massive to get this out into the Norwegian school everyday. This means that there is a great responsibility on national authorities for what we are also doing to the school of tasks. It's so easy when we get a microphone in the face, and people ask us what we're going to do with it, that we say, we're sending out a circular letter. I believe that both today's government and former governments have a strong responsibility for our involvement in doing so. The proposals that are now here have a much greater awareness of how many rounds? What are the rules we're going to have in school? What does something mean? What is important for us to know? And who is it that has real responsibility? This is essential in discussions and should be put in place. That is why I believe that the proposal that is now on the table to put this more into the system through a'regulatory board' is a good proposal, and also that we set concrete targets to reduce the pressure that we, as national authorities, are putting on the individual school level. Forms quickly become must-tasks, because they have to be submitted. There may be a danger that these must-tasks will take away some of the time that should-tasks the school is really about. On the part of the Christian People’s Party, we want good routines to be created when a teacher is new. That's why we insist once again that, in our opinion, we should have a mandatory mentoring system in school, that we put in place a system where guidance and education are put into a system of competence and structure, and not just into an indicative voluntary system, which is currently out of school. Creating good practice, so that teachers spend time on the important thing, we believe that such a mandatory mentoring system could help to contribute. Then we want to get other professional groups into school, because teachers are doing many, many tasks that could have been done by others, so teachers would have had more time to be educators. Getting child protection professionals and social professionals and maybe also protective caregivers into school would be a big help, because it's like today that the students entering Norwegian school have a whole backpack of life with them into school everyday life, and the teachers don't have the skills, and that's not what they should spend their time on -- they should spend the time learning away. In order to achieve that, I think it needs to be put into a system, and perhaps a national systematic effort needs to be put in place, or at least a regulation on how to use other professions in school, so that they are used properly, and that they do not try to take on the role of teachers. Then to the home-school collaboration. The timer set it up as a timer. It surprises me that you don't see that good cooperation between home and school will be a strength and will be able to facilitate the work into school. The majority, including the Advance Party, believe that it should not be one of the teachers' assigned tasks, and it must mean that they have thought that this should be a task that should only be voluntary in addition to everything else. This should enter a system. We can't count everything that counts, and the teacher has to form and educate for the benefit of the human being. The Christian People's Party hopes that we do not now count ourselves away to just education, and forget the formation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1449	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1452	Both the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party are concerned that home-school cooperation should be the best possible, and I perceive that there is a broad political consensus that empowerment of the home can contribute to the motivation of the students. However, the Time Management Committee's report clarifies a distinction between the professional follow-up of the student and contact with the home in matters that are not a subject or education, and the teachers state that they would like to have more of the first and less of the second. The Christian People's Party writes in one of its comments that it needs to be facilitated in order for home-school cooperation to be given a more natural place in the tasks assigned to the teachers. But does the Christian People's Party also see this distinction between the professional follow-up and the follow-up on other things? And will the party also be involved in setting limits on the teachers' contact with the home where necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1459	It is quite clear, as I said in my speech, that the teachers should not be present and do all the tasks that other professional groups should do. If the government had been a little more willing to bring in other professional groups, it would have been much easier to get good cooperation on the professional basis, which of course should be what the teacher is going to do with the home. But at the same time, it is important that around each child there are many adults with different roles to be able to coordinate to create a good growth, especially for the vulnerable children. There, teachers, health sisters and child protection professionals must be able to cooperate in order to obtain good solutions. What we have reacted to is that what the Time Usage Committee says is almost a signal that we need to have less contact between home and school. I think we need more contact with the professional, and then we need to get other professional groups that can deal with the social challenges in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1464	I think the representative Eriksen made a good contribution to the fact that we, too, on the part of Stortinget, must take care of what we impose on the school of new jobs. The progress party got a visit right at the end of the post, because there's one sentence we're not in. If I were to have analysed the home-school issue, I'd rather have been glad that a unanimous committee, on the one hand, is taking away from what the sample in its time said, namely that you should have less home-school cooperation as part of the teachers' tasks. However, the Christian People's Party proposes, contrary to what the representative himself argues for in his statement, to impose more work on teachers. Is it going to be more or less time consuming?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1469	If you say that this is an assigned task, you're actually saying that this is something to be put into system, which is to be incorporated into the daily work of the teachers. The problem that the rest of the Greatness now seems to be very nice with home-school cooperation, we have to do more of that, is that it should not be part of the assigned tasks that teachers have. That means that it's not one of the problems to be counted into the time that the teacher spends on the different tasks on a daily basis. The reason why the Christian People's Party is involved in the comment that we have so far written ourselves, and that we think is very good, is precisely to get this into a system, because today the teachers feel that this is just something that should be done in addition. If you input it as one of the assigned problems, it would be in a system that can be integrated into the total time usage of the teachers, and we think it's a good time use. Because when home and school work together to get good learning from the student, you save time and get good learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1476	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1479	It is actually a rather historic day today: for the first time, the Stortinget has a case based on what is the most important resource in the school, namely the time of the teachers and the time of the leaders. It's never been presented before. Kirsti Kolle Grondahl led the selection appointed by former Minister of Knowledge Bård Vegar Solhjell on the basis of the fact that many teachers and principals and others who have their daily lives in school have addressed the issue of time use, as an important political issue as well. I am very pleased that there is such a broad consensus in the Storting today that this is a resource that we are going to have much greater awareness of in the future. That's why I hope this isn't the end of a discussion, but the beginning of a consciousness that both the position and the opposition will take into account in the further discussions. Because it's just that the school in very many contexts is used as a mailbox for good intentions in the rest of society. Almost daily, at least weekly, I'm asked the question: Dear friend, here we have a problem; can't the school solve it? We know, for example. not how harmful the mobile use of many children can be to radiation. Why can’t the school ensure that it is banned at least in school? When I then say that it is the responsibility of the parents, that the school should not have that job, be so good, it is seen as a bit of a paralysis. No, we have to stand up for that in the future as well. There are many other types of tasks mentioned: should we, for example: do not have a national register of how many children meet at school after the summer vacation, how many do not meet on the first day, on the second day and on the third day? No, we shouldn't. An overview should be provided in the municipalities, where appropriate. But there is no reason why municipalities should spend time reporting it centrally, where they should not follow it up. The time test for us comes when all the good, well-thought suggestions come from now on and forward. Let's say: Look, time usage is a topic for us when it comes to discussing school. We're all taking the time test. We have now introduced this centrally in the department, because we believe it is very easy that the good intentions are quickly taken away from us, but they lead to considerable time spent in school everyday stealing time from what is the most important task of the teachers, that of spending time on the kids. We've provided a big message that will answer the challenges of the Time Usage Committee to the core. They've all been followed up, except for one. It is a proposal that we should draw up guidance which sets out the objectives of competence at all stages, in all disciplines. There we have said that we want to spread examples of how to do it elsewhere, rather than provide central guidance for this. Otherwise, all the challenges to the central term have been queried, and we're following up in all areas. What is now the challenge is that the sum of time spent in school is, on the one hand, tasks that come from a central level, but on the other hand, tasks that come from the municipal level, from the municipalities, from the schools, which often do not have the skills they could have to provide services to the schools, and which are linked to the discussion of what is available from central resources. The third term is of course the individual school, how much of what teachers report as time theft, has to be queried, for example. meetings, meeting activities and general meetings, which seem to be stealing time from other things. So the time test for all of us is, how are we going to make sure to follow up on this forward? When Kirsti Kolle Grondahl presented this, she underlined the importance of leadership. Fortunately, we now have a completely different focus on the principals in the school. But one thing that comes into the wake of the Time Usage Committee is to compare the Vice-Chancellors' support apparatus with other leadership positions, because as many people have been involved in the debate, it's rattled in many places. There are principals who have to do many tasks that many other leaders have to do separately. It's not about increasing red tape; it's about red tape of the principal's role. So it's about class management. We are making arrangements for class management and further training in classroom management, because very much time can be saved by having professional, natural authorities among the teachers, who take control and provide efficient time use. [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1496	The President is also concerned with the efficient use of time in this Chamber and asks both representatives and state councils to stay within the measured speaking time. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1502	I'm glad the Council of State says this is the beginning of a discussion. In the case of new groups of professionals at school, it's not just the principals and secretaries we can talk about. I want to talk about special educators. It is possible that in my post I messed up with two or three letters and talked about PPU when I was actually going to talk about PPT. Now I'm at least going to try to talk about the PP service. As I tried to say in my post, it is in connection with the school, but mainly outside school, several hundred – if not a thousand – highly qualified specialised educators who are currently being charged with a lot of paperwork, and who may not get enough work with students and people, what they have the skills to do. In the further follow-up to the Time Use Committee report and the work on time use in school, will the Council assess whether action can be taken to increase the mobility of specialised educators into school — away from offices and out to people?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1511	As the representative Tord Lien will be familiar with, we are now working on the follow-up to the so-called Midlyng Committee, which has just this issue for discussion – how to organise Statped in the future, how to ensure that pedagogical-psychological service reaches the students. Then I can assure you that precisely the use of time and how to make the most of it for the good of the kids is a theme for us when we work through that setting. So I hope to be able to present a message to the Storting that follows up the settings of the Mid-Hinge Committee, but that also has elements of time usage with it. The way I believe that this big message is now to be further managed is that we keep a little in mind, are reflected in the time spent in the future and find ways to guarantee the quality of the rights that kids have, but are able to balance this, so that the most important resource reaches the kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1516	There is a great deal of consensus that many tasks that teachers carry out today in school take too much of their time. This applies, inter alia, to: conflict resolution, peace and order, joint meetings, documentation and reporting. The Time Use Committee has identified more than 90 interventions that will be of great importance for teachers to focus on the core school tasks. The Minister himself stated that good management appears to be the key prerequisite for good time use in school. This applies both to school management and to classroom management. The question is then: Will the Minister of Knowledge change the financing of continuing education, which also involves class management and school management for teachers, so that the school owners can afford to participate in the important education as it is?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1521	This is a topic we've discussed before. We are now working on finding the form of continuing education that meets the needs of schools and municipalities. But we have said very strongly that further education should be given priority, because this is also a cooperation with the parties in the school. I'm going to come back to the part that's about funding. But what we've done now, in agreement with the parties, is to develop this offer so that it's closer and more decentralised than it was in the first few rounds. Thus, we hope to meet some of the objections that have been raised, namely that there was a long journey distance, and that it was difficult for adult teachers responsible for men and children – or wives and children – to break free as much as they had provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1526	A repetition of the big news is the reference to the school owners who correct him. Thus the government plays the ball to the municipalities and absolves itself to a great extent of responsibility. What kind of concrete initiative has the Government and the Minister of Knowledge taken on KS to ensure that municipalities are now prepared to implement and implement measures in the notification? And does the Minister of Knowledge think that the municipalities today, within the framework they have, are able to implement the measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1531	The Time Use Committee addresses the challenge to three stages in terms of time use: towards the central level, towards the municipalities that are school owners, and towards the school itself. What we are doing today – and what we are doing specifically with this message – is that we are witnessing what we are initially responsible for. I can see that the whole Storting really says: Yes, we're going to be more aware of the time spent at school in our discussions ahead. Then the challenge goes on to the municipalities. I believe that a very large part of the responsibility for the further use of time is now that the municipalities take a reflected discussion about this. The municipalities that uncritically pass more compulsory tests to the school, as certain Right-wing municipalities do, have a great responsibility for the use of time. The municipalities that uncritically impose reporting beyond what is central have a great responsibility for it. So I think it is a bit fun that it is now the Right who believes that it is not possible to do anything about the time use without it following the money with it. I mean the opposite: I believe that regardless of whether we have a lot of money or little money, a conscious relationship with time usage is useful.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1538	I wonder at the answers of the Council of State. I find that there is not the amount of testing and testing that is the problem in Norwegian school, it is the absence of all the good helpers that teachers and principals think they need to get their daily lives up, and to be able to spend more time on the subject, education and follow-up of the individual student. I think it is quite surprising that the Council of State minimizes the economic challenge of municipalities wanting to involve more professional groups, whether they are child protection educators, caregivers, health sisters, etc. So I ask again the Council of State: does she think that today the municipalities have the framework to implement the measures that a total increase today actually thinks that it should be implemented, to ensure that the students get more time for learning?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1543	This is, of course, amazing and completely new tones from the Right, which believe that there is a need to think more efficient use of resources in school only in the context of budgets. I think it's interesting. We're about to have an important debate on a resource standard, that is, a maximum of students per teacher in school, and here I have so far realized that the Right is not excited about it. I'm very concerned that we need to have more professional groups into school. But I think we should take that discussion in relation to concrete proposals, projects, plans or objectives and in connection with the discussion about the leadership functions at school – and how thin it is around many of them. We're going to do a comparative study among principals and other similar leadership groups to see what they have of support apparatus around them. I think that might be a very interesting starting point for this. And we're coming back, for example. in the context of the notification of secondary education, to see how other occupational groups can be involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1550	In the last answer, it almost seemed as if the government had intended to come back to the Stortinget with concrete measures to increase the number of other classes in school. If that is the case, it is a little strange that you are voting against one of the proposals on this today. Let me take up one of the few disputes that lie here in Stortinget, the one with home-school collaboration. Does the Council of State think that home-school cooperation should be a desired task to be added – if you get time – to what the teacher is already going to do? Or does the Council of State think that this should be an assigned task, which is then counted into the time when the teacher is actually going to use his duties? It's very often that home-school collaboration becomes a celebration and a wish, but in the opinion of the Christian People's Party, this should be an assigned task, so that this is integrated into the actual time the teacher uses. What does the Council of State mean?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1559	The school has an obligation to cooperate with its parents. In fact, it is very important for most tasks you have, both professionally and socially – and usually related to them. But it's also important in terms of time use, that you have a good relationship with your parents, and that they know that they're coming quickly. And that's important, I think, for the way teachers and school think about the parent group, because there are a lot of parents who think that the school is characterized by a little tribal language, that they don't feel very welcome, while other parents are housewarming from day one and dominating all parental meetings – I'm absolutely sure that Dagrun Eriksen recognizes himself in that description. I have experienced school-home collaboration that is very detailed, where parents drown in information, but perhaps not the most important thing. So getting the good quality of the cooperation relationship school–parents, I think is crucial — but it’s not certain that it’s as much as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1564	I have decided not to try to kick the state council on the team, but rather to share an observation with her that I did when I worked on this matter, namely that we see that more and more of what the teachers are doing have the character of being prepared for a possible trial once in the future, that they become a case investigator for future Supreme Court lawyers or municipal lawyers who are to defend the job they have done. This I think is a very wrong way to go. I think we're going to find the good old teacher role, the creative and safe adult we're talking about when we're talking about the good, wise teacher, we have to stop believing that the teacher is going to be the case preparer because he can once be sued. This great grip, both in relation to the training law and in relation to the way we make reports, I think is one of the fundamental steps we should have taken. It's a fundamental question that I wonder if the Council of State shares with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1570	Firstly, I would like to give the case rapporteur credit for having come to where we are today, with a broad consensus on important issues regarding time use in school, and I am happy to continue working together on it. So we're in here on a significant question that I'm afraid doesn't have one answer, and that's: how do we balance the consideration of children's rights in several areas, and maybe in time, in particular two, namely, assessment – how to give feedback and what is good judgment – and in relation to students with special needs? How do we manage to find a level of reporting that guarantees both students' rights and that will prevent teachers from drowning or getting the wrong focus, namely that the forms should be correct, not that what you actually do to the kids should be right? I don't think there's one decision on that, but I think we can get a lot better at quality assurance that what we give of regulations and instructions, etc., is food-efficient. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1579	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1584	In 2008, the government decided to reduce a sample to cover time use in Norwegian schools. The committee has produced a comprehensive report with many good proposals for action to free up time for the core tasks of the school: teaching and interaction between teachers and students in the classroom. Of what is proposed, good management can be mentioned with emphasis on empowerment for school leaders, consolidation of the curriculum rather than new, major reforms, and simpler and more transparent legislation. However, there is one element that is more important than anything else in ensuring a more effective time-use for learning in Norwegian primary schools: When new tasks and requirements are given by circulars or changes in the regulations of the Training Act, time studies must be carried out that measure the concrete increase in working time of these tasks for teachers and school leaders. The best example of this is the amendment to Chapter 3 of the Regulation of the Training Act, which came into force from the 2009–2010 school year. Paragraphs 3 to 11 of the Regulation now state that the student is entitled to a conversation with his/her contact teacher about his/her development in relation to the objectives of competence in the subjects at least once every six months. A single calculation can reveal what this regulation implies for an average teacher in upper secondary school: with a class of 28 students and five different subjects on the schedule, where a teacher often has one of these subjects in two parallel classes, he/she shall conduct 168 evaluation interviews twice a year. Each of these calls must be assumed to last at least five minutes if they are to have any value for the student. In total, the conversation time will then be 28 hours on an annual basis. If you add 10 minutes per conversation to pre- and post-work for the teacher, you're up for 84 hours on an annual basis for that teacher. There are quite exactly two working weeks in a teacher's year. Thus, a simple new sentence in the regulation of the training law has led to a sharp increase in the total amount of work for Norwegian teachers. Now, the Council of State and the Department will probably object to the calculation I have set up, possibly claiming that the new provision should not be interpreted literally. I would then recommend that that debate be not taken in the future in this Chamber, but before new and time-consuming regulations are implemented, and then in close dialogue with representatives of the professionals who are best-known for printing, in other words teachers in Norwegian school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1597	The purpose and purpose of this communication is to increase the teaching time of the teacher. It means in clear text that tasks that are not educationally related or otherwise necessary in relation to student documentation should be removed. There is broad consensus in the Committee on both problems and many of the solutions. But one thing is very little about it, and it's good class management. It is necessary to maintain order and order, which is a necessary basis for both the use of time and the acquisition of knowledge. Good management also implies a good culture of feedback to teachers. It's actually not mentioned, just feedback to the students. According to TALIS for 2008, teachers get little or no feedback on their teaching whether they have good or bad results. This is neither good school management nor good staffing policy. Most people like and need feedback about their own work. TALIS also shows that a majority felt that feedback contained suggestions for improvements in work. This was just a minority of Norwegian teachers who thought, which may indicate that feedback in Norwegian school is both relatively small and little directed towards providing concrete advice. This is an important area that is clearly neglected in Norwegian school. Feedback needs to be clarified as part of the role of the head of school. In professional life, the term ‘right person’ is often used in the right place. In school, the teacher is this person, almost no matter what tasks or problems to solve. This is a significant time thief. It is a pity, therefore, that the government is not more concrete in terms of increasing the inclusion of other groups of professionals in school. The Progress Party looks forward to addressing the big business message that the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will present in the spring of 2011, on the relationship between the State and the municipalities and the principles of government governance, where the Ministry of Knowledge has commissioned the Directorate of Education to carry out a systematic review of the collection of information from schools with a view to improving the efficiency and implementation of priorities. We look forward to this being treated, even in relation to the time spent in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1610	I'm glad that there's a broad consensus about removing the time thieves in school, and that we have good discussions about how to get this done. I see this consensus as a step in the right direction of more calm in the political debates on school. In this case, it is a good response to the school sector’s reform fatigue, and we owe it to the sector to take that feedback seriously. It will also contribute to fewer time thieves in school by allowing the school to implement the adopted reforms in peace for new, major changes. The Minister of Knowledge started an important and necessary work through the news of the Great Britain that is being addressed today. It is a challenge for the sector that the distance from the Stockholm School Policy Decision to the individual classroom is so long. The role-sharing between national school policymakers and local school owners calls for a reasonable balance to be found between giving school owners room for action to make the necessary priorities locally, while the national governance signals are clear and clear. Nationally, we are responsible for creating a sensible school framework. We need to have a clear context and a whole in the actions we're launching. The laws, regulations and administrative provisions in this area must be clear and accessible. We're going to set the targets that the school is going to achieve. Locally, the school owners are responsible for the practice of good school and class management in everyday life, so that the national targets are met. How to achieve the objectives and how to use time for the best for each student depends to a large extent on the judgements of the teacher and the principal. It helps little if we decide that the headmaster should have more room for action if the local school owner at the same time prevents the principal from being a pedagogical leader, expecting that she should also sand the ice when it's smooth and do watchmaster services. We all have to move in the same direction. Local awareness of these issues is therefore crucial. Each school must have a clear sense of how teachers and school managers should use common time and assess how the work is organised, both inside and outside the classroom. For this reason, the government's proposal to strengthen school leadership education, further develop it and establish a programme of leadership education in the education sector are very important measures to eliminate time thieves in each school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1623	I think it is very good that this debate has come. There is a lot of frustration among teachers out in School-Norway about how time is eaten up by things that are immaterial to creating good education. It is said here that the red tape and documentation requirement come from New Public Management, which it is believed is the root of all evil. No, it's not from New Public Management. The one who started this process was in time Gudmund Hernes with the reforms in the 1990s, where it was said that the teacher had to be checked. One has to know what the teacher is doing, it has to be documented what the teacher is doing. So it wasn't New public management or market management that was behind this, it was the social-democratic need to have control and overview that was the starting point. Then it has become so much stronger along the way. But I think some of the basic problem in this is that you can't trust what the teacher does, and what's not documented, it's not done either. It is to the extent that one has a thought from the process industry and the health services etc. That's where it has its place. The doctor who is on duty must know what the previous doctor did and what medication the patient received. But it doesn't have its place in school the same way. There it seems contrary to its purpose. The school is primarily based on informal relationships. There's a relationship between teacher and student, there's a relationship between teachers and between students. This is what the pulsating life is, and it creates a good school – not evidence of everything you do. On the contrary, the documentation requirements may destroy part of the positive relationships there. I sat as a teacher myself and had a student conversation. To have a good student conversation, you should have an open and free tone. But when you have to sit on a form to be filled in, you have to go through everything in the form and fill in and write down, you have to sign what has been said and take this form with you in the next conversation, then you have actually choked the good conversation in the school by red tape. Then I think the government is a little passive about what the government can do. You point to school leaders and municipalities, etc. I'm convinced that there's a lot that can be done, but that's actually also things the government can do. I believe that much of what has come from rules and regulations, including: from the Directorate of Education, has provided a lot of extra work for people in school. When, for example: in the case of assessment, in the case of absence, in the case of examination arrangements, etc., there has been much that has been little thoughtful and difficult to understand, and that teachers and school managers have spent a lot of time getting involved, so that much time has been spent on things that could have been much easier. I think the government is actually going to grab hold of that. The second is that school supervision needs to be done in such a way that it does not require much documentation from the schools. It is true today that a school may have evidence of things, but still be a bad school. And you can have other schools that lack documentation, but are still good schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1636	In the change of line with representative Lien, I tried to ask a little about Siv Jensen's play on Sunday in Dagbladet – about a plan to coup Norway, where she calls for each student to have individual development plans – if not the Progress Party saw this as a possible new time thief. The answer from Lien was, as far as I could understand, that this was something we all already were for, that everyone who had the skills to do it could take teaching at a higher level, and that all the individual students would meet at the level of development they were. It is not that the Workers' Party is no longer for this, or that we have turned around in this case, as Lien said. But there has to be something that somehow doesn't match here. For is it true that the parents who had now taken the pleasure of having an individual development plan for their child, if they voted in favour of the Advance Party, do not now get it if they vote in favour of the Advance Party? Or is it that the Progress Party is now simply selling a proposal for which everyone is already in favour, as a new progress party proposal? It could be exciting to hear what the answer to this is. Lien says that this can easily be solved locally, and that how this is done administratively is not particularly important. I think that's the sum of the thinking that Lien here represents in his answer, which means that the time spent in Norwegian school has gone over all the boots – ever new plays from politicians on things to be measured, tested and weighed in Norwegian school – so another such proposal here from the Progress Party. It is in stark contrast to the previous speaker, the representative Torkil Åmland, believes that evidence works almost against his purpose in school, and that you have to trust the teachers and trust that they do a good job. I think Norwegian teachers are able to see which students have the opportunity to take a higher level course. I think Norwegian teachers have the opportunity to see how they can meet each student in the best possible way. That's exactly why we're going to do something about the time thieves, so that they get better time to do this. Then I think it's counterproductive that the Progress Party proposes to introduce another system of bureaucracy for teachers to sit down and make big plans for each individual student's development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1647	My last point in the previous post was that parties that want to red tape are not going to be credible when they want at the same time a school and welfare sector where the public more buys services from private rather than self-government. There is a close link between red tape and promoting competitive outsourcing and privatisation. My second point is related to something that's been up here several times, that we're said to be so defensive towards the school owners, municipalities and county councils. We are accused of being defensive in the negative sense when we both clean up our own track and invite them to cooperate with municipalities and county councils to continue this work in the future. It gets really funny to me that in a red tape debate that we have here today, it is part of the opposition that wants a more detailed government based on mistrust of our school owners, municipalities and county municipalities. I really wonder if the Right-Rapporteurs around our country agree with such an approach as the Right here in the Chamber. I really believe that municipalities and county councils have understood the drawing. Many of them are already well under way. I am convinced that they can manage, in cooperation with the state, in their various variants, to go further with this simplification work. My third point is related to what Per Fugelli in his book ‘Nokpoint’ calls ‘good enough’. It is important that all reporting is based on not collecting more than what is ‘good enough’ compared to what is needed to manage well. The example of Adecco is not a ‘good enough’ example. Here, too little information was requested, with the results that it led to. But at the same time, we should not ask for more than necessary. Then I think a point in particular in this regard is that you should think very carefully about your own ability and competence to receive management information – that is, how much you yourself can swallow away, as a local government representative or what it might be – when you ask for information. A fourth and final point relates to something that has been highlighted by several here, namely supervision — in particular in a sector which in the field of characterisation, evaluation and evaluation is concerned with forwarding, that it should be part of the learning process and the development process of each student and school. It is important here that the supervisory system – municipal, county and state – also points forward, provides good advice, more than just mechanical references to regulatory deviations. I know that several school directors are concerned about it, and believe that it is possible within the current legislation. But that might also require some regulatory clarifications in time. We'll see about that in the further development work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1660	I take the word to actually give a slightly better answer to the line from Trine Skei Grande, which I experienced that I replied a little bit incompletely. After reading the comment a little more carefully, I can give a better answer, I hope, so that the case-rapporteur will be satisfied. The point is what is stated in this note, which the government parties do not agree with, where it says: ‘These members therefore believe that the tasks referred to above’ — and there are quite a few — ‘referred to by the Time Usage Committee should not be part of the teacher’s working day’. That note is, in our opinion, a little too strict. That means that it's almost like no teachers have to have that kind of problems anywhere, and it's being interpreted too strictly, as we see it. The main job of the teacher is of course to be a teacher, and we've discussed and talked about this all day. I think we're pretty much in agreement about that, but to say that no teacher in a small school, who might be far away from a place, should be dealing with some of these problems, is getting a little bit too strict. I want to add and comment on something else that has come up in the debate, and it is the Torkil Åmland Progress Party's somewhat unhealthy posts, I would say, as far as explaining who is responsible for the terrible developments we have had – terrible in and of course in goose eyes – around this that there has been so much more reporting, supervision, etc. in school, and that this is the fault of social democracy and not of New Public Management. The committee was on a trip in Canada, and then we met Professor Hargreaves. He has written a book about these trends, which are very international, and which has gone like a farce through many countries, from a school that in itself was completely unaffected by everything else in society, to being affected by society's demands for documentation, especially because many parents and students became more conscious as users. I think it's hard to go to parents today as a responsible politician and say that we don't know what's going on in school, and you get to live with the school you have. It is not possible to deal with us who are politicians in 2011. We have to be responsible, and that's right, too, with regard to the school that's most important in relation to the future of children. So to blame - blame Gudmund Hernes or any other minister - is completely wrong and completely taken out of context. At least it has very limited value and cannot be documented in my opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1678	Having 30 high school students in the same classroom and providing individualised education is, to put it mildly, demanding. People talk about babysitting days where they've had 20 kids visiting. It's like blueberries to count. The centre party therefore looks forward to a change to the Training Act which sets out a resource standard for teachers. That we think will lead to an increased experience of time. Time to document each student’s performance in writing takes time and is important, but it is probably equally important to have time for personal contact with each student in one day. In a society where we are reminded of bullying, of assaults that are not detected, of children who are hurt, it is important that at least the teacher has time to see them, to have a chance to discover if something is not right, and to help them in the learning process. Then it's important for the motivation that the students get good feedback on homework and the work in the classroom. If the teacher is to be able to provide appropriate training, the teacher must know the individual student. As the representative Hagen referred to: Modernisation’s New Public Management flew as a farsot of the Municipality of Norway in the 1990s. The Countess almost wiped out the principals of the municipalities. Only the most steadfast were left. My claim is that this has been a curse for School-Norway. Despite the fact that primary school is one of the core tasks of the municipality, schools have largely become absent on the agenda of municipal politicians and have left to the administration. The head of school or the head of the school department must re-establish itself, and municipal politicians must take responsibility for local school policies and for which groups are required to relieve teachers and principals of unnecessary work. Then we have to make sure that the municipality has the economy to give priority to this and to keep our ambitions on time, seams if I agree with the Council of State that good management and conscious attitude to tasks can also save both time and money.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1689	Attention around time use, almost everywhere in society and in school, is good. It's not just about economics and resources. It also has to do with quality and focus. I have had contact with quite a number of teachers and school leaders and asked: What are we going to do about this matter? Where are we going to go in concretely and do something? The unison feedback is the need for time resources. It means, of course, cutting in on problems, but it also means helping out on problems. I think it was exciting to hear about the state council that had introduced the time-use check in any context. So he's going to check if what I'm doing now has a consequence on time usage in school, and that's very good. But the reason I wanted to take the floor was also to say that we should not underestimate that the school is a good and important arena in terms of responses to the children also next to the purely doctrinal ones. That's why I want to go back to something I've discussed before. The school is an arena where we meet all the children, where we can meet them in a sentence that's natural because they're with other children. I understand the dilemma facing the Council of State when many people want new things into school and think that individually these are trivial and important things. In view of this, perhaps proposal is no. 1, from the minority, makes sense? I have to say that I, as the representative of Dagrun Eriksen, realized that the Council of State almost helped to support that proposal in its contribution – here we had to look at what we could let others do, how we could let others go into school to relieve the teachers, but also to do things that are natural to do in school, so I want to challenge the Council of State on that very matter. Could it be that what is contained in proposal No is positive? 1? Although there is likely to be a downsizing here today, the Council of State can seize it ‘on its own keel’ to see how we can take advantage of that arena positively, with many good powers to get better action for our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1701	When these school policy debates sometimes tend to become a little pink and a little too much of a consensus, it is good that we have the representative Wickholm present. He wasn't very interested in talking about the government's approach to the Time Usage Committee, but he was very interested in talking about Siv Jensen. Of course, we very much appreciate that Truls Wickholm is concerned about what Siv Jensen thinks. So am I. He challenges us that the Progress Party believes that all children in the Norwegian school should be entitled to adapted training. There has been a fight from the right, often with the Progress Party at the head, to establish the principle that children, no matter what level they are on professional terms, are to be met by a school that takes their qualities and challenges seriously. Which terms you use around it, of course, can be discussed, but this is absolutely fundamental to the Advancement Party. We want a school that sees all the kids with the qualities they actually have, and that facilitates education based on these qualities. This is precisely why it is important to free up time for educational staff in school, teachers, to create an educational situation that sees all children, to provide homework for those who are struggling, and to ensure that those who are far ahead of them are able to take a higher level of education. Then I just noticed that the consensus we had last week about these challenges and this problem – which even the state council of Tora Aasland agreed – might not have been so obvious anyway. So to Aksel Hagen, who says that competition gives more bureaucracy. I expect that SV will go to elections in all Norwegian county councils against the right to free school elections. It may not be a surprise, but I'm looking forward to that election campaign. When you say that competition gives more bureaucracy, I have to say that we've seen the opposite lately: there's even someone who's cut so much bureaucracy that they've forgotten to deal with a law or two. Of course it shouldn't be like that. However, competition between public actors, as it will primarily be, and between public and private actors, will primarily not create more bureaucracy, but more diversity in schools, and contribute to the creation of a school that sees all students — no matter what their assumptions. So I could imagine that the Council of State – with regard to proposal No. 5 from the Right – explained a little about how she intended to keep Stortinget informed about the further work, and not least about the outcome of this work, before I conclude with whether I would recommend the representatives of the Progress Party to vote in favour or against that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1716	I don't think it makes sense to blame someone because we've come up with what's wrong with us. I think politicians have made that clear, all of them, from all the different political wings. I also find it strange that Aksel Hagen is attacking the privatisation of Norwegian school, which, as I recall, is between 2 and 3 pst. in Norwegian school. So I believe that also got a little bit into SV's old study circles without dealing with reality. So to the basic problem. I think what I took up in my reply to the Council of State is the basic problem, that there has been a right thinking at school – in such a way and so hard that it is more important to secure your back than to do the right thing. A good principle might be that we start by saying that everything that's written is to be read by someone. That all the teachers can let go of writing things that they think are never read by anyone, is a good start when it comes to peeling down. It's about trusting those who are going to do a job, it's about giving them the space to do their job. That's why the fight for continuing education is part of this fight, because it's about giving people a ballast to both get that trust and to take that space of action. That's a lot of good intentions. I have to say that as a left-wing member, it has been fun to sit in Parliament today listening to all the praises of special educators and health sisters. In the last five years, the left has proposed a stepping-up plan for this, and we have proposed 200 new ones each year of both types. And it's clear for all the parties in this hall to agree to such an escalation plan. It would have been a stepping-up plan that would have benefited teachers! I expect that most people have read the comment in Bergen's magazine about teaching Bjørndal's method of how to combat bullying in a slightly different way. Learns Bjørndal's method does not fit into any form. Teacher Bjørndal's method could never have been carried out with a circular with an instruction that this should be done. Teacher Bjørndal's method is smart teachers who can play on their students, who know how to take action to change a class dynamics. You only find that knowledge inside your head of each one. You can only find that knowledge inside the mind of wise, safe teachers, who are wise in their role, wise in their knowledge and who have authority and respect in the classroom in which they are going to act. That's what's the key to being able to give it the trust and the room for action that makes us end up with the detailed management we're actually doing. I want to challenge the Council of State – instead of writing many circulars – to maybe write this year's circular. Otherwise, the Left-Right proposal is supported.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1736	The Minister of Knowledge was in his post at school with mailboxes for all good intentions. It's now approx. eight months since the notification of the decision, where the government announced a clean-up in all these action plans involving the school. It could be interesting if the Council of State could lighten up a little — after eight months — and tell what action plans are now going out of Norwegian school. In the reply, the Minister of Knowledge confirmed with me that the municipalities were to play the main role in the follow-up to the measures of the Storing Communication. But then I think it is a little surprising that the Council of State could not answer if concrete initiatives had now been taken towards the KS, so that the municipalities now actually have the necessary preparedness to start implementing these important measures. I get a kind of feeling that there's some kind of black player game going on here, when neither will the government admit that several of the measures will actually require fresh money. I agree with the Minister of Knowledge that we should streamline and use the money that is already in school, well and even better. But I don't think it's useful to introduce new reforms, because this is a time-to-learning reform, and I flipped responsibility over to the municipalities without it coming with money. We've had a lot of discussions about that in Stortinget, and about the expectation gap that's out there. I am afraid that today's debate and the news of time-use will help increase the gap in expectations, and that many teachers and principals may actually have reason to feel a little tricked if good measures are now in sight that the municipalities will not be able to comply in the next round. I believe that the representatives of the government parties today in turn and order have been up here and almost devalued the importance of more concrete plans and more binding measures. It should probably worry more than just the Right – I think that the whole of School and Municipality Norway should worry about not being willing to commit more. I would also like to tell the Minister of Knowledge that I have also not received an answer to my challenge related to class management. For well, it is important that the principals of Norway now have long-term and important competences, but it is all the tens of thousands of teachers standing in all classrooms, who are the ones who can really catch the time thieves and who should become the real leaders of the class. Then it's their skills enhancement in school management that might be the most important thing we can now bet on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1747	I was accused of being unfurnished by the representative Marianne Aasen. What I tried to do was just to nuance a little bit and show that this isn't as easy as saying that everything that's bad is New Public Management, but that there might be more currents behind it. Otherwise, I agree that there is no point in having a long discussion about the reasons. However, it can also be pointed out that the development of red tape in school — introduced by a right-wing government — has continued under the promise of knowledge. It is not to hide that there was one of the weaknesses of the Knowledge Lift. This led to more bureaucracy, and it has continued in the last five years with a red-green government and a knowledge minister from SV. If this is New Public Management, at least SV has greatly contributed to maintaining New Public Management in the school system. When it comes to private schools and private schools, which have to be very bureaucratic, it's one of the easiest things to do. When a private school is approved, the school reports how many students you have, how many you expect to get to next year, and ‘that’s it’. And then you get a subsidy on that. Very simple, no bidding round on it – a very simple and unbureaucratic model has been used there. So for this with documentation. It is not that I am against all documentation. We've always had documentation in school. You have to document the characterization, you have to document absences and some such things – it has been there since the morning. But what I'm very critical of is a lot of the unnecessary documentation that is in school today, where you have the assumption that what is not documented is not done. That's what I felt the case rapporteur said in his opening post here too. There is a problem in school today that what works in informal relationships, in informal settings, should be documented in a formal way. It actually strangles some of the informally important processes. That's why I said in my post that the school is not a bureaucracy, the teachers are not case handlers, it's not a health institution or a process industry, it's a living learning environment. There is, in fact, no evidence of the most important processes going on. That is why I also disagree with the Christian People's Party in the proposal to impose a home-school collaboration. I think you're going into the same problem where -- you're going to start reporting and documenting, and then you formalize something that's an informal process, that's in the law today. Finally, I just want to recapture what I said at the end of my post, this with what comes from the central team, and what you can do centrally: a little prayer to the Minister of Education there also that the guidelines and what comes from the central team must be much more thoughtful than it has been to date. It has created a lot of extra work for schools and teachers to figure out how to interpret and understand this. There's been a lot of frustration out there in many schools. You get a very quick impression that here you don't fully understand the consequences of the guidelines you give to the schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1760	Aksel Hagen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1763	If Trine Skei Grande had followed me in what I said in my first post, she would have heard that I said that School-Norway did not end up in such a disaster as what we see part of in the health and care sector, and as the red-green government has told them to take hold of. Because there is no doubt that if, instead of providing the services themselves and developing the services themselves, the public goes out into a market and starts to buy services, it will have to put in place a tendering regime and a tendering bureaucracy that represents a much greater degree of bureaucracy than if it were run by itself. It's almost at the limit of a professionally undisputed truth, I'm quite convinced of that, and then in case one gets to argue that one achieves something positive that makes it still right with such bureaucracy. Ask, for example: rehabilitation institutions and the Salvation Army on how they experience having to operate in a regime characterised by tendering issues. It is not there today, but it seems that the right parties have ambitions that it will be so in the school sector too — at least more of it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1768	My point in taking up the communication with the representative Lien is that there should be a connection between what is written in the newspapers and what is said here in the hall. In here in the hall, the Progress Party has made good contributions, been reflected around how we can do something about the time thieves in school. Outside the hall, the Progress Party proposes the introduction of individual development plans for each individual student – a little more than 615,000 students this year. Then you get completely unintelligible when you're asked questions about this going to contribute to more time thieves in school, or if it's not going to. There's such a classic FrP rhetorical answer up here whether it's now that the Workers' Party has gone away from being too adapted for training, or whether you've gone away from being so that you can take a higher-level course. No, of course we don't. Last Thursday in the debate on real-time vocational training, we agreed to confirm that we are just very much in order to make it possible to take a profession at a more precise level. We have repeatedly confirmed in this room that we are for adapted training. It's even legal. So putting the question mark on it becomes very strange from the Progress Party. But it is typical – when the Progress Party feels that they are on uncertain grounds, they become more concerned about saying that we are talking about them and not about what is really the policy. That, I think, is a strange approach for a representative who started his first post by mentioning a proposal from the Right on Spanish pipes. When you add up to that kind of debate yourself, you also have to bear to be met with it. We have still not received an answer as to whether it is the way to implement individual development plans – which I believe should be a written plan for each individual student, which is possible to follow both for the student, for the teacher and for the home – that developing the kind of plans for 615 000 students will contribute to fewer time thieves. Otherwise, I fully agree with Lien's representative that one of the reasons why we're going to do something about the time thieves in school is that the teacher is going to have more time to see each student, more time to meet the students at the level they are. Then I believe this with more plans and more office work is not the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1779	Just a few comments on the tame of the debate. Firstly, I agree that we must not now go into the trap of thinking that the school should have a narrow mandate, and that everything that is not about basic skills has nothing to do in school. The school has a broad social mandate. We have a purpose paragraph that says the school should prepare the kids for life. Then we can't define it just as working life. I fully agree with that. But it's a bit of a way from there to send all the good wishes that we had to have, to the school without thinking about what that means. We have a lot of examples of that. So to get other occupational groups into school. I think it's a very important thing, but I think we'll get further into that discussion if we take it concretely in the context where there are tasks we want to solve. Take the health care sister service, e.g. Take other eligible professional groups. Take the role of the assistants and how we're going to define it. I'm absolutely sure we're going to come back to those questions in many contexts. So to something that has also been recorded. The time-use committee faced challenges for all three levels of school. What we're doing now is we're going to ask ourselves what we're responsible for. Of course, it is not a disclaimer to say that the municipality also has a responsibility to go through the time they use in connection with what is done at school. There are many municipalities that impose clearer requirements, more extensive requirements, when it comes to assessment, when it comes to mandatory tests, etc., etc. They have to do the job of going through what they themselves impose on the school. It is also very clear from an overall time-use committee that municipalities must be detained to provide more mandatory tests than is currently the case at national level. In the case of continuing education and clear classroom management. After all, it's the theme of continuing education, it's the theme of the new teacher training, and we're working on it. So just a few comments at the end. I think the case rapporteur, Skei Grande, is in on what's the balances ahead, and you can't do those balances once and for all. Everyone is concerned that students should have a fair stand. How are we going to ensure that we have a certain system for how this is going to happen, while not overbureaucratizing the job that teachers are going to do? Everyone is committed to the exercise of the right to special education in accordance with certain specific criteria ensuring the legal certainty of young people. It has to be done in such a way that legal certainty is not pushed into the parody, but that the kids actually get a good offer. We're going to have a lot of discussion about this in many contexts in the future, for example. in the context of the Riksrevision review of the situation in School-Norway. So here's what it's about to do to keep the perspective forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1798	Tord Lien has spoken twice in the past and is given the floor for a brief comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1801	Back to the representative, Wickholm. It is such that the weakest students are entitled to an individual level for their schooling. The Training Act provides for all students to have a training plan. It's not like the Norwegian school is squeezing out of the very most talented students, so also giving the students – the few students involved – a plan for how to extract their potential, I don't think it's a big bureaucracy problem. We just have to note that the Workers' Party is for adapted training, but not for any plan for it. Well, that's interesting from the plan party, the Workers' Party. So short to Aksel Hagen: We already have a system to finance the few private schools in Norway. I note that SV must have a bad case today, as they only talk about the 2-3 pst. by the schools and not 97 pst. by Norwegian schools. Completely short, President – no...
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1810	The President is pleased that one respects the measured speaking time and does not act as a time thief.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1814	It is so rare that I have the opportunity to draw myself several times, so the temptation sometimes becomes too great. I just want to comment on two things. I will give two challenges to the council, but first a little obs to Aksel Hagen. I think the representative Hagen is going to look very long to find examples that either the public or the private is the only right for an effective and anti-bureaucratic approach. I think you find both parts within different sectors, and I don't think there is any very good supply gel for that very thing. I'm going to give two challenges to the council, to which she doesn't need to respond, but as I think she's going to take along. One is that the Riksrevision must learn to assess the school on the basis of the school’s task and not to measure on the basis of ‘single-petimeter legislation’. That's the main goal. The national audit should actually look at national tests, on which results are obtained. That's what the Riksrevision should have cared about, and I hope you can focus on that. We shall contribute to this in the light of our position in the control committee. Then that's a good example of health care, the last week. The Health Directorate has proposed that children be weighed twice to find them thick. It's a rather fascinating way of thinking, as if not thick kids know they're thick. I guess the vast majority of thick kids hear that they're thick. But the Health Directorate believes that it will be a great discovery if they are placed on a weight and heard that they are thick – and then everything will change. It's now a strange thing in itself. But what this ends with is that there are no health sisters to follow up these weighings. It makes no sense to weigh children and that adults, in addition to all the messages they get that they are thick, should tell them twice during school that they are too. Then I'm terrified that it'll be the teacher's job, that it'll be the gym teacher's. Gym teachers have a lot of fine education to do activities for children, but they are not always the best people to motivate those who are all, least motivated to do gyms. Therefore, this is a warning from this pulpit that all such good intentions will end up being the work of the teachers. There will be expectations that teachers — gym teachers, house teachers, all those who can be close to this — will suddenly be responsible for this too. That they're going to look into the bag and see if you have the right food package, is something that really is a task to help parents, to help the children, and then they need health professionals to do that job. That's why it's so important to expand the health care service. That's why it's so important to fight down these types of demands that come from different sides, when we think it's the teachers who are finally left with the job – a job that they don't have any education or motivation for, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1825	This has been a great and good debate that has contained quite a lot of what teachers are going to spend their time on, the student, and what teachers are not going to spend their time on. In the light of what has been debated here, we think it is very important to follow up on this matter further. That is why we will support proposal No. 5, which is available here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1830	First, a comment on proposal No. 5, which is identical to a proposal on page 10 of the biggest message itself. It says it. ‘Implementation of a new study on the time use and organisation of teachers and school leaders to see if there have been any improvements in time use’. The only thing missing there is a year, and I'm not sure if 2013 is the right year to carry out this survey. For, as Dagrun Eriksen was about earlier in the debate, it is actually a rather time-consuming operation to map time use in school in such a broad way. If the proposer would like to submit that proposal, I would like to be in further dialogue with the Committee during this major period of time when a new time-use study is being carried out. I think the most important thing we have now to focus on is to make sure that the good intentions of this debate are translated into action in large and small matters that we are discussing further. I think Trine Skei Grande was in on a couple of important questions. The National Auditorate is the body of the Storting. Of course, I will never think of interfering with what the Riksrevision will do with requests or criticisms about reviewing the administration. But when the Stortinge assesses what you get from the Riksrevision, it's interesting how you sign out, because it's clear that it controls very much what you get criticism for, and what you don't get criticism for, having followed up. There may be an exciting discussion next time you discuss requirements for School-Norway and for the Ministry of Knowledge in such a context. I think that in the case of lack of health sisters, you can get into the situation that no one is following up the children who face some challenges, whether there are eating disorders of any kind, or not touching, or needing to change the diet. We are also there that some children get further stressed that they have some challenges, but do not get help to follow them up. Because I'm not sure whether teachers or anyone else are throwing themselves over these problems. So the health sister function is important both in terms of the issues that have arisen here and in terms of the psychosocial environment at school – because we know it's almost 20 pst. of children and young people with some mental health challenges. And it's clear that a health sister has a different entrance to it. We're definitely going to get back to that at many crossroads in the context of the further discussion on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1846	Elisabeth Aspaker has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1849	It was the invitation of the Council of State when it came to proposal No. 5, which made me take the word. That proposal states that a new monitoring should be carried out by 2013. When the Right promotes such a proposal, it is simply because we now want to put some pressure on ourselves to get the measures that everyone thinks are crucial to taking the time thieves who today eat quite significantly with time from the teachers, but who also eat important teaching time from the students. Norwegian students need to learn more. Therefore, it is important that we are sure that we will get the measures started, and that we can verify the effectiveness of the measures after a while. But I follow the call from the Council of State and say that it is okay for us to turn the proposal into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1856	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2620]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1872	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and that speaking time be allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to 3 minutes on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time be given a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1879	Let me begin by thanking the Cooperation Committee on this matter. It is a topic of major educational policy and social policy importance that is addressed by the proposers in this document. The document sets out seven concrete proposals for action to strengthen the basic skills of the adult population. The right of adults to training in order to ensure basic skills was introduced in 2000. The system has now become more well-known and more widely used, but there is still a great need to strengthen efforts to increase literacy and ensure good basic skills in the population. It is a problem both for the individual and for the big community. The ability of individuals to cope reasonably well in an information-intensive modern society is significantly weakened if one cannot, for example, do not. read and write. According to figures from the Reading Centre in Stavanger, 330,000 adults have very poor reading and writing skills, while as many as 950,000 read less than they should. Basic skills are about preparing for further education and professional life, promoting democratic participation, developing and maintaining cultural skills and contributing to the experience and meaning of individuals. The Committee underlines the inter-political commitment and consensus on these principles and will continue to work on them. Of people in working age who are currently out of work, about 40 pst. Of these, also those who have the worst reading skills. The skills of the unemployed are constantly weaker than those who are in work or studying. The Committee believes that this demonstrates that society needs to strengthen its efforts to increase literacy and ensure good basic basic skills in the population. The Committee agrees that the programme of basic labour skills is a very important complement to municipal adult education. The Committee agrees on all the essentials of facts and the importance of future focus on actions that can strengthen the basic skills of the adult population. I assume that the representatives of the majority and the proposers themselves will supplement the content as necessary. I will then go over to comment on some of the suggestions in the matter. The party notes that the focus on and efforts for basic literacy have improved in recent years. Several measures proposed are under way or under way. There is an overall plan for continuing training for teachers in municipal adult education. The Party agrees that there is a need for information measures to reduce the stigma associated with lack of basic skills. But no one has earned the benefit of launching a campaign until we are sure that the offer is feasible. Today, many educational institutions and organisations provide adult education. This makes adult education somewhat fragmented and, in many cases, spread in an unfavorable way. Focusing on better cooperation between existing study associations and offers is therefore important. For the Progress Party, it is important to point out the importance of the fact that the training provided ends in a formal competence or other relevant competence related to participation in the labour market. I am in favour of the proposals on which the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is advocating.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1905	The representative Bente Thorsen has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1908	According to OECD criteria, nearly 30 pst. by the Norwegian population for poor reading skills. We're not within the OECD's desired level. However, although this figure is high, Norway is actually among the best countries in the OECD. Nevertheless, we are talking up to 350,000 people who, according to the websites of the Reading Centre in Stavanger, do not have the reading skills they need. Still more jobs require reading skills. Adults aged 41–65 years, who are at the weakest level of literacy, have more than 12 times the risk of falling out of work that the good reader has. The Nordics are a reading people, and the requirements for basic skills are greater in the Nordic countries than in many other countries. In the last 10–15 years, demands have increased both within and outside the labour market. Demographic development is also a challenge in itself. Age sustainability shows the relationship between the active part of the population and the older part of the population. This relationship will change dramatically. In 2000, there were 4.7 persons of working age per age group, while by 2030 there will be a reduction of 3.5 persons and by 2050 to 2.9 persons. In order to meet this, it will be essential that as much work as possible be done. Then reading skills are a prerequisite. Good basic skills are an important prerequisite for stable labour market links. Norwegian working life is largely knowledge-based and demands a high level of adaptability and innovation. Innovation and value creation depend on a competent and productive workforce. Future jobs need competence independent of industry. We must therefore ensure that each individual has the basic competence to acquire new knowledge and to participate in the transitions. The basic labour skills programme was established in 2006 and allows enterprises and public enterprises to apply for basic education support in reading, writing, billing and data. Since 2006, there has been a considerable increase in the number of drug users in the EU. 13 000 persons were trained through the BKA. The evaluations show that the programme meets the target population well. The BKA programme is a very important complement to municipal adult education. A challenge in reading skills is also that half of those who are among the weakest, even they seem to read well. Some of them also seem to read very well. Firstly, it is difficult to admit failing skills in such basic reading skills as reading and writing... – it is obviously a little disappointing for me even today! Basic skills also prove to be weaker the older the employee is. Older workers are therefore an extra vulnerable group. Efforts to increase the skills of disadvantaged readers must therefore be seen in the context of measures to keep older workers at work and to reduce the use of early retirement. An additional challenge is that older workers themselves take less initiative in training than younger ones. According to the Reading Centre in Stavanger, many employers tend to downgrade the training of older employees. This is serious, and it is the responsibility of the employer to motivate workers in the risk zone. This will be a key to putting in place effective measures that can help maintain basic skills in relation to labour requirements. Training of own labour must be a field of activity for all serious enterprises. The right shall be praised for putting this theme on the agenda of the Stortinget through this Document No. The 8th proposal. The opposition also promotes a number of proposals related to it. The Workers' Party supports the intention of many of these proposals. And you'll also be able to read it from the notes. However, we will not vote in favour of the proposals here today. That is also explained in the notes. The Labour Party believes that the government takes the challenge of adult literacy seriously and that the establishment of a 10-year plan will not necessarily constitute a strengthening of work. In recent years, the government has strengthened the investment in BKA and, in addition, strengthened the economy of the municipality and county, where much of this responsibility lies. The government has also launched a project to establish skills trustees to be drivers in the workplace, so that lifelong learning can be shared as much as possible. With this, I look forward to a further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1929	Taking hold of the reading skills of the Norwegian people, wanting to improve it and, in particular, giving new opportunities to those who, for various reasons, have not fully developed their literacy skills, is taking hold of one of the basic prerequisites for success as a society. We know that it has always been so that those who could read, write, calculate and maybe re-into speaking foreign languages had great opportunities, and they got the forward positions. However, there has also been a good place historically for those who were not so schooled. The change in the assumptions of this last group has been enormous, and ever-new professional groups are challenged in a day-to-day time when professional replenishment, qualification requirements, documentation requirements, instructions and instructions for use challenge reading competence. Then I have to hurry to add that it is not just in the traditional professions that this challenge is being reinforced. It applies at all levels of work, or privacy for that matter. In a labour market with new generations beyond 70 pst. have taken on higher education, it is a very important task for us as politicians to do everything we can to make sure that everyone can see a possible change of work and work desire to meet. This is why, over the past six years, the Right has repeatedly called for a systematic and long-term effort to increase literacy and basic skills in the adult population as well. The reactions to our proposals have been varying, from a very welcome attitude of the then Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal, who said that there were several things going on here, and that he would like to play with the Right – we still do not know exactly what was going on at the time – to several more lukewarm receptions with later ministers. Today, we feel that the government parties will not vote for any of our proposals, and that is rather surprising. I am recording correctly that the comments of the government parties give a very positive mention of some of our proposals, but they will not be in favour of an overall and clear demand from the Storting for increased attention, attitude changes, long-term investment and evaluation of the work, so that we can ensure as much equal access as possible to the labour market for as much as possible. Right-wing is pleased that there is a strong consensus in the opposition that a long-term initiative should be launched to ensure that basic skills-wearing adults are provided with help. It is also widely agreed that it is important to widen the range of supply in such a way that all relevant public bodies and natural partners are involved in order to reach the maximum possible level. The red-green parties also refer in this case to actions that have been initiated, and decisions that have been made, yes, we even get small glimpses into orders made in the inner circles around the Council of State. That's great. What surprises me, however, is how the representatives in their comments can express their appreciation for the matter being raised, stressing that more needs to be done, so as not to vote for any of the proposals. The right has also called for a campaign to make it easier to recognise and participate in additional training in basic skills. It was significant to see the recent survey showing that a significant part of the workforce was probably in need of such an offer, while only a few of the employees in the same establishments thought they needed it. Now I'm not going to say what was the correct answer, but there's enough reason to think that it wasn't that easy to admit the need for extra training. That's why I appreciate the Workers' Party's great representative, Arild Stokkan-Grande, who, after looking at and learning about the results of the use of the new pageturner reading program, immediately decided: I could need this myself, we should have had this on Stortinget! – a great attitude that I would like to see infected on his party traps in the Kuf Committee, so that we could say: we will be clear, we want an overall increase to be behind the demand for increased investment. We want to make use of all possibilities, not just on the Storting, but in the many companies and organisations with employees and members who need such help. Finally, I would like to point out our proposal to create a programme of basic competence in volunteering. We have the programme of basic competence in the workplace. The program works well, but should have had resources to reach far more. Our hope is that by creating a BKF, we can reach new groups of adults, those who may not be in the world of work, or who work somewhere where it's not a BKA project. If they can get an offer through a nationwide voluntary organisation, or through a volunteer centre, another group of adults could go into everyday life with enhanced self-esteem and new opportunities. Finally, I take up the suggestions Right promote alone or together with others, and that have not been addressed before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1950	The representative of Svein Harberg has taken up the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1953	Not being able to read really when you're an adult, I think a lot of people think of it as a terriblely stressful and in many cases a shame. One is ashamed that one cannot read well enough and avoids getting into situations where one can be ‘discovered’. That this can be seen as a handicap and a limitation in daily life and in the working situation is obvious. In today's working life it is no longer so easy to work without good reading skills. The result is that many fall out of both working and social life, with the consequences it has for individuals and for society. Speaking in class has probably been a true nightmare for many. Fortunately, the pedagogical methods have evolved a lot since it was the common way to test reading skills. Focus on early efforts to help students break the reading code early and focus on training reading speed and understanding will hopefully make no one leave primary school in the future without mastering reading. Probably it's about. 400,000 adult workers in Norway who lack sufficient skills in reading and numeracy to master the challenges of today’s working and social life. A number of measures have therefore been taken in recent years to increase literacy and literacy. If reading skills rise now after action is started, many of our societies will still be poor readers. There are also measures for these, but the biggest bend is probably to admit by itself that one needs help, and that one then actually seeks help. I want to draw a concrete example from my own municipality and one of the city’s taxi and bus drivers, who is also a member of the Centre Party. When you're a driver, you'll have a good time to think, as he said. He had learned that there were many who were reading, but there were few who would admit that they were wasting it. He therefore aired the idea of a reading training course for his local taxi driver, who thought it was a good suggestion, and via via he got a meeting with the Career Centre Opus Hadeland. The end of the visa is that they have now started a course of 50 hours, twice a week of 3 hours. I'm drawing out this story to show how important it is that we care at all levels. It is important to provide services that provide adults with lack of reading skills, opportunities to become good readers. Providing those who are currently out of work, monitoring, can be a good measure, but the most important thing is that we talk about it, so that it does not become a taboo topic. I think it is also important that the offers made are easily accessible and have a low threshold to contact. If the cause of the problem lies in poor school experience, it is important that you be met with respect. Organised courses in cooperation with the employer will be easily accessible and a generalisation of the offer. The Directorate of Education has already been entrusted with the task of establishing an overall plan for continuing training in adult education. Combining this with the action plan for full and long-term reading in initial training may be helpful. Work is also under way on developing comprehensive circulars for municipalities on the rights of adults to education. It's good that we get this discussion in Stortinget. It is important for us to make arrangements so that as many as possible can take part in the pleasure of reading, both for use and for pleasure. It can also be one of the keys to getting more people into the world of work and getting a meaningful daily life. Therefore, it is important that all good forces move in the same direction – and that people dare to admit that they need some help, and that we provide them with the help they need when they need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1979	In order to break a little bit with the stigma and the shame around it not to be able to read, it is also important to say something about that it is the society that has failed. It's society, through school, that hasn't managed to involve students so that they're equipped in a way that allows them to face life with reading and reading. I think there are too many high thresholds to go over, there are bad experiences to break through, before you can both admit and say that here you have failed me. There's a lot of work to do to get this in place. The BKA funds have been mentioned by several, and I think it's very positive and good experience with that. But there's also a lot of other things happening. I was lucky and got to visit the Kiwi school – I know someone else has been there – that's in the Drama. They also run BKA projects, they just don't know it. They have a setup. Even if you're going to stand and sort bottles, which is often the first job you get in a Kiwi store before you can get up a little bit, you have to go through Kiwi school and submit some small questions and answers to get in place. The Kiwi management discovered that there are some who lack the literacy skills among those employed by them. Kiwi has taken responsibility and agreed to have both a literacy course and a writing course for those who are employed by Kiwi. So there's a lot of work to do to get this done. It is also the case that private schools have been allowed to have a regulation in which they are offered further training to adults without rights. Also there is a meeting point for those who have a lack of competence that it may be important to use in this context. We are going to support proposal No. 7 – we are not behind it in the setting – about using the so-called BKF funds. We also thought it was important to get in the study federations, which is a proposal that we are in. But we therefore support proposal No. 7th@item: inlistbox But then: earlier today, we had a debate in Stortinget on a proposal – not in this committee, but in another committee – which the government parties had voted down, but which they came back to today and fully agreed with. It is a mystery to me that of all the eight proposals that are now on the table in connection with this Document 8, there is not one that the government parties will support. And there are no own proposals from the government parties about what they want to do in this matter, which is so important to them, we hear in the submissions. It's a mystery to me, that you completely ignore it when there's other issues. I've heard the government's representatives talk about that there are demonstration proposals we're dealing with, and I don't know what other issues, whether to say it like this. It's in this room that we're developing politics. Is it so that it is a principle that if these proposals have not come from the government itself, we do not go into it at all, we refuse to support it? Is it so that the government parties do not have their own proposals in this matter – or is it such that all thoughts are thought, everything is in place, everything is in order, and we can only see that this goes on? I want a government apparatus and some government parties who dare to go into the important issues – even when they themselves have not taken the initiative. There are eight proposals on the table. The Christian People's Party has gone in and said, "Some people we support, some people we don't support. I experience government parties in this room that just say that when it doesn't come from us, we don't agree. This matter does not deserve to be dealt with that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e1994	There are many adults who don't remember their own schooling with joy. They may remember it as a continuous experience of not being able to master and not knowing exactly what to achieve, and not being able to progress in developing their own skills. And there's a lot of adults who won't get by if they're offered something that reminds me of the old school. For this reason, workplaces and activities around them are so vital to enable adults to improve their basic skills, in particular their literacy skills. I'm glad there's a high level of commitment around this. In fact, there are many adults in today's working life and among those who are unqualified who have not received any particular part of the educational goods, because they were disillusioned at school and were not seen properly early. In areas where action is sought in the proposal, efforts are on a large scale or under planning as part of the follow-up to the Education Line, and this is something that I see the majority of the Committee has also taken note of. This call for proposals must in itself be regarded as a long-term national plan for lifelong learning specifically aimed at those with weak basic skills. The current actions of this Communication are: strengthening the Programme of Fundamental Social Competence, the grant has increased to 86,3 million. in 2011 development of a framework and guidance for training in basic skills adapted to adults under Vox participation in the OECD study PIAAC, a kind of PISA study for adults, where results come in 2013 and will provide a better basis for developing new measures strengthened national coordination of career guidance further development of the real-life competence system to make it more consistent and user-oriented; I would like briefly to look at how the government is going to develop more relevant and adapted offers for adults, which I see as a matter of great importance to the Committee. Adults without completed secondary education account for 700000 persons. We have therefore also increased our efforts towards them with the need for higher-level vocational skills. The government has done a lot to strengthen the workplace as the learning venue, and for this particular group, this is a crucial element for participation. Vox has developed skills objectives that describe and concreteise training objectives that are suitable as a basis for providing training adapted to the working and life situation of adults. Own profiles have been developed for basic skills in the job related to a number of professions, making it easier for trainers to prepare adapted courses. BKA has a very good employer search, and evaluation indicates that we reach the target audience very well. The programme is within its sixth year, and so far it has been distributed approx. 200 million. NOK and approximately 13000 workers and job seekers have received training. The candidate figures for this year's call are record high, while Vox has received 409 applications for support. Several enterprises may join forces to apply, and therefore applications contain approximately one or more of them. 700 different establishments. That means that we're getting up an offer that many people think is useful, and that there are not as high thresholds as it used to be, in order to actually participate. Like the majority of the Committee, I support the proposal for the identification of basic skills for those outside the labour market. Vox has developed an approach aimed at case handlers in the Nav system to improve their identification of the need for basic skills for users for whom it is relevant. I believe that this can be an appropriate and effective way to reach the target population in question. I want to further develop the BKA based on experience and evaluation. Voluntary organisations are already involved, as study associations are invited to participate in the programme. Some 400 organisations are members of study associations, so the voluntary sector already has a good opportunity to cooperate with the labour market through the BKA. In 2010, there were 36 psts. by the application of the study associations as a course provider. Two words also about higher-level vocational skills: we know that in the context of the New GIV we also have a significant target group among adults who are already in work, or who may be unskilled at an early age, and who have had little part in the educational goods, which I was in. That's why I have a very strong desire that we also get more focus around this group of adults in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2029	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2033	In addition to providing adult education in workplaces, more than 400 approved adult membership organisations provide adult training. But then it is that a good part of the offers given does not provide any formal or relevant competence related to participation in the labour market. For the Progress Party, it is important that the training offered can be used in the labour market. Will the Minister ensure that more of the public adult education resources go to basic skills — educational services that can be used in the workplace?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2038	That's the job we're in the middle of, and it's quite right that the study associations are responsible for a significant part of this offer. In terms of basic labour skills, as it is now, we know that we are going to have significant challenges in being able to allocate funds to all those who are applying, and if there are 700 different jobs, it is essential. Then I think it's important that we continue to think about formal competence related to what I was about in the final analysis, namely the possibility of e.g. to be able to take a professional letter attached to the job. What's the challenge in basic skills is that it's largely about rejuvenation from primary school, and there's very few of the adults who are very motivated to think they're going to retake primary school exams.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2043	There is no doubt that basic labour skills are good and work well, and I think the Council of State agrees with me when we say that we wish there were even more who could be involved. It's a little bit sad that the lack of resources limits the offer, but there are some groups that are not reached. And then I record that the Council of State refers to other ways of organizing it, including in the voluntary sector. But our proposal to create a basic competence for volunteering is to reach groups that one does not reach in the other ways. And there are enough people who could be reached that way, through the nationwide voluntary organizations. Doesn't the Council of State see that by launching such a project, an uplifting of that opportunity and inviting a new group of people to acquire this basic competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2052	Well, I think that's absolutely right, and that's in the case of a budgetary question. What's going to be the challenge now is that the 86.3 million. kr that we have in the basic competence of work, is going to get legs to go on, to say it like that, because there's going to be a lot more people who want to get awards from that pot. And, of course, we should have challenges in relation to groups that do not get the offer through their job – or perhaps have no job to offer it. But that's in case we get to come back to when we discuss the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2057	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2621]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2075	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2084	I would like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation in the drafting of the proposal for a representative from the Right on clearer guidelines for national tests. The setting shows that there is a broad consensus on the importance of national testing as a management tool for each school, that as many students as possible should participate, and that the tests should be completed in such a way as to provide comparable results. It is also agreed that national samples are an important part of the quality assessment for Norwegian primary schools. Together with other international surveys Norway participates in, it provides more knowledge of learning outcomes. Although national tests are unable to tell everything that is important, they still tell some of the important things, namely the status of the basic skills of students in writing, reading and billing. These are skills that are essential for the success of the student at school and in later education and working life. There is a considerable potential to obtain the results of national tests if they are used wisely and closely followed, including by local school principals and school politicians locally. Ideally, all local school politicians should know the results of the national tests at their schools in their community, so that it can be part of the decision-making framework for which instruments the school may locally need to strengthen its learning outcomes. The Committee also points out that schools should invite more parents to dialogue on the importance of tests and how the school will follow them up. I think that's wise. The home has an important role to play in playing the school and the students good. The second paragraph of Section 2-4 of the Training Act specifies the conditions for exemption from national tests. National testing is planned this year. It will provide a better overview of practices. The Committee agrees that this will be a good foundation to ensure that exemption practices become more comparable and more consistent. It is positive for the school and the debate on the school that the committee does not make it a champion of party politics. School needs peace, and it needs clear political signals about what's important. That is why I am pleased that the committee is working together on the full description of reality in the vote. The only thing the committee seems to disagree on is the appropriateness of the proposals as such, and that is an honest thing. In any case, we agree on the purpose of the proposals, as expressed in the draft representative and in the vote on the proposal. So I'd like to address some of the things that I feel we're still fundamentally disagreed about, but that's not worth mentioning in the proposal or the vote, but that's taken up by the Council of State in the letter to the committee. These are issues relating to the publication of the national samples. Here it's a clarification that it's worth taking with it. When the Right was in government, they had a public policy that led to the rankings of schools, based on the results of the national tests. This led to massive protests from both teachers, parents and students — yes, students who even boycotted the national tests. The University of Oslo gave strong criticism of the right-wing government's arrangements for the national tests. After our government has changed the practice of the right-wing government, I feel that there is peace in the use of the national tests. They shall be used for quality development, not for ranking. I hope that when the cooperation has been so good, the Right may also agree with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2101	Knowledge of the school is important in order to contribute to the knowledge of the school. Over the last few years, national tests have helped to measure knowledge and thus also laid the foundation for and have provided the opportunity to improve the learning of each municipality and school. The result you've seen of the tests is that schools can learn from each other, and they've been developing the school supply around the country. The party welcomes the fact that today’s debate on national samples is about how to help make them even better. It hasn't always been like this. As the rapporteur also pointed out, the debate has changed in the past. Some of the new developments in the debate in the Chamber today show that some parties have strongly reversed their position on national tests. I think we now see that the national tests as an instrument have been useful. I hope that all parties will learn lessons from that. However, there has been a debate related to different practices of the exemption regulation. It's got a lot of stuff. the claim that in some municipalities there are many more people who are exempt, and that therefore the results of the tests are not always as accurate. It's a debate that's going a little bit well. Therefore, it is important that the Storting today gives a clear signal on how the exemption regulation should be practised. It is important both to ensure that the experience gained from the national tests is actually comparable, and it is also important to ensure the trustworthiness of the national tests, both in the municipalities and in the individual schools. At the same time, it is important to review the practice of the legislation and follow-up of deviations, as the Progress Party, along with others, suggests here in the Chamber today. It is disappointing that the government party also says this time that they are some of the intentions of the proposals, but choose to vote them down. I hope they are nevertheless accepted by the Council of State, as many other things seem to be happening, namely that one to the seventh and the last to adopt the proposals when one is allowed to promote themselves. I would like to take up with this the proposals that the Progress Party is behind.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2114	The representative, Jon Georg Dale, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2117	National tests are now established as an important tool for controlling school activities and learning outcomes. So big is the cross-political consensus on the national tests that it almost seems incomprehensible that this was a combustible political topic just a few years ago. Following the launch of the idea of national testing by the Supreme Minister of Knowledge Kristin Klemet and the launch of the implementation, SV made a choice in 2005 for the national tests to be stopped. However, after the government change, the red-green government agreed that national tests are an important and appropriate tool, as well as the international tests that Norwegian students have participated in in the last ten years. There is no longer any doubt as to the importance of the national samples. National tests have provided valuable information on differences in knowledge levels, both at school and at local level. The government has failed to keep the results completely secret at school, and it is therefore not so strange that different results have led to debate the reasons why some schools and municipalities perform better than others. Among other things, Oslo School has received a lot of positive feedback for its results, which have been partly significantly above the national average. In the right's view, these results have confirmed the impression that many have had of Oslo's systematic work over many years, with emphasis on nuclear science and extensive use of tests and tests to monitor students' learning outcomes continuously. That students at Oslo School perform very well is no coincidence. The reason is simply solid efforts by all parties. When questions have been asked from time to time about the results of the national tests being fully comparable, this is related to the fact that the exemption rules are claimed to be applied differently between schools and municipalities. For the Right, it is important that right-hand controlled Oslo and other municipalities that score well on the national tests have results that are fully comparable to other municipalities, so that there is no doubt about the validity of the results. Should there be differences in the practice of exemption rules relevant to the results, the national samples lose much of their purpose. In the opinion of the Right, it is not sustainable if the legislation is unclear and allows for different interpretations. The right-wing representative’s proposal is intended as a contribution to remedying any weaknesses in this way. The rules for exemption from national tests are linked to those students who have special education under Chapter 5 of the Training Act and/or to those students who receive specific Norwegian training. The total number of exemptions given at step 5 is 7.4 pst. and on step 8, step 3,7 pst. The proportion of pupils with special education is around the national level. 7 pst. Statistics from the School Gate show that the number of exempted students varies relatively widely between schools and, in part, between municipalities. The Education Directorate has therefore announced a review of the rules and practices for exemption. This is a review Right wishes welcome. We are served by a regulation that is clear and clear and is therefore understood and practised equally throughout the country. It is natural that the results of the national samples are given high weight and stimulate debate. The right considers, therefore, that the government’s anxious attitude to transparency about the results at school level is a false step. National tests are an important source of knowledge on the learning outcomes of pupils, measured against national averages and the performance of other schools. It is well known that different factors, such as: The social background of pupils may have an impact on learning outcomes, but it must nevertheless be a fundamental pre-requisite that school activities and education should also provide results for which the national tests provide information. The exemption rules therefore have to compensate for the greatest differences in the student mass of individual schools, so that the results are comparable. In the view of the Right, therefore, there is reason to emphasise the results of the national tests as an important feedback on the work of schools providing the desired results. For teachers, principals, parents and school owners, not least, knowledge of pupils’ learning outcomes and outcomes is essential to assess the activities of each school — especially over time. It makes no sense to keep these important results secret from those to whom it applies, namely the students and their parents.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2132	Then is the moment of the morning meeting. The vote will now be adjourned, and the sitting will be resumed at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 16th@item: inlistbox The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2144	The decision continues to deal with case No. 5 on Agenda No 55.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2147	It's kind of ridiculous that there's so many going on, when you'd finally seen a slightly bigger audience! Over to the matter: Since we started using national tests, there has been a lot of discussion related to these. The issue today comes up because we don't fully trust that everyone who's going to be in the test is involved, but that the schools are deliberately keeping some students away from the tests in fear that they'll pull the cut down for their own school. And why? Well, because the results are often familiar. Which schools are best, and which schools are worst? Nobody wants to be hung out in the media to be ‘bad’ schools. As a national measuring tool, the national samples are important. On the other hand, the results for each school are most important in improving their own education and becoming a better school owner and a better school. The fact that some students are not present on the probationary day with a valid reason for absence is natural. However, as one can see in the media, in some schools there may be striking numbers of pupils who usually score low in the subjects and subjects that are the theme of the test, which do not participate in the national test. This is at best a misunderstood attempt to achieve good results. In addition, it is unfortunate if the national samples are to give a correct picture of the status. No school gets better than the students in total get from learning. It is therefore important that as many as possible participate in order to obtain the most truthful results and images of the level of knowledge. That one suspects some municipalities or schools to exempt more students, undermines the purpose of the tests, and deprives school owners of important information. An unfortunate outcome of the ranking hysteria is that it seems that a good number of schools spend a lot of time rehearsing on the subjects on which the students are to be tested. This means that we don't get the right insight into whether ordinary education has a good learning effect or one. It's an unwanted adjustment. One of the points of the tests is just to see the effect of teaching and to give a hint of the need for change. Once we've just dealt with Meld. St. 19 for 2009–2010 on time use in school, it is a paradox for me that schools choose to spend time on such ‘teach for test’. I think this is the wrong priority of time, and a culture that contributes to time theft in school. As already noted in the notes, it is clarified what are the conditions for exemption from the samples. It has also been shown that last year’s national tests were successful. It may therefore appear that the organisation of the tests, including the practice of exemption, has become more systemic. National testing will also be carried out in 2011. We therefore do not see the need to implement the measures proposed by the opposition. Since the introduction of national tests, there has been a lot of debate on the implementation and publication of results. I think there is still a need to explain the purpose of national tests, and not least do not have, and dampen the ranking hysteria around samples. Here we, as politicians and media, still have a job to do. National tests are not a measure in themselves, but a tool to increase the quality of teaching and increase the learning outcomes of students.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2170	Some speakers at this morning's meeting were about how much more excitement it is about the national tests now than it was when they were introduced. It seemed almost as if this progress had fallen from above to great cheers, but there was no attention around the special measures that were taken. Indeed, much has been done with the national tests and the way they have been carried out. It is quite right, as many people have said, that there were strikes, boycotts, major conflicts around the national tests when they were introduced. A test break was taken in 2006, and there was a dialogue with teacher organisations about the time in the school year when it makes sense to carry out the national tests, the stages at which we are going to do it, and the way in which we are going to organise it. There was agreement not to publish rankings, and there was also agreement to teach more about what the national tests show and what they do not show. It's former councillor Øystein Djupedal who took a test break, and it's awareness of what the national tests show, which I think now makes more people see that they can benefit from it. It's still the way many people think they can read more of the results of the national tests than you can actually do. It's e.g. such that our national tests, e.g. Unlike PISA, our national tests are. All questions and tasks are public. That's because the schools should be able to use them and work with them afterwards. But that means it's hard to compare over time, while in terms of the PISA results, there are some public tasks, and then there are some secret tasks, which means that the students get the same type of problems on all the tests consecutively. So it's limited to how to measure evolution over time. What gives the schools important information is to measure up to the average of a country, to measure the municipality against the average of a country, and to analyse what the variability of results can be due to. Of course, there has also been increased attention to exemptions from national samples. That's right, there's been a steady increase in the exemption for all samples from 2007. However, there has also been a steady increase in the proportion of pupils with individual decisions on special education that can be exempted, or specific language training that can be exempted. Part of the increase can find its explanation in it, but not all. So the question is, what is the background for there being great variations between municipalities and between states in relation to how to deal with the question of exemptions? I think it is interesting to continue working on how to understand the provisions on exemptions, but I do not agree with the proposers that it is a goal that as many of the students as possible participate in the national tests. The reason why there is some discretion about participation in the national tests is that for some students it will be experienced as a continuous failure to solve tests where they do not have the chance to master the answers at all. The reason why we have good pedagogues – which we were very concerned about in the debate that went on all morning, namely the teacher's competence and the ability to assess – is that they should have some discretion. If they think that a student shrinks from taking a national test, the teacher's judgement will help to find out if it makes sense or not. If they see that this is a way of supporting training, it should be possible for the teacher. So, of course, someone might wonder about exempting a lot of students, while other schools have a policy that says that all the students should be involved because it's exclusive in itself not to participate. Here we have to discuss ourselves until a more nationally equal understanding of how to deal with it, but I really believe that there must be a certain room of discretion at the end. As regards proposal No: 3, on transparency about the rates of exemption, we're doing the same transparency around the rates of exemption that we're doing around the results, i.e. at municipal level. I think that's the most important starting point for discussing why the rate of exemption varies. Of course, we're going to see if the way we're dealing with this issue today is appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2188	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2191	The Councils of State, like several previous speakers, are concerned that the major debate around national tests is about to wane or disappear altogether. The only thing that hangs again is the discussion associated with the exemption treatment, i.e. the exemption percentage. The question is, when the only thing that's going on across the country during the national tests, is the debate related to how many elephants absolve internally in the different municipalities, but also within the different schools within a municipality, which allows you to get results that may not be comparable, why is the Council of State opposed to publicising these rates of exemption, so that we could have a more holistic debate based on the facts underlying it, and could also help to make the results more visible, and that the processes in the future are even better than they are today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2198	I believe that the clarification that has now been made in relation to how this legislation is to be understood is clear. What is clear is that the student must have a decision on special education or language training and that it is clear that the tests will not have much to say about the students’ training. It should really make that the room of discretion is relatively limited, but it should still be a room of discretion. This is because it's about the experience around what it's like to do national tests. If we were to have a goal that this should be practiced equally everywhere, or that there is a goal that all students, no matter what their basis, should carry out the national tests, for some single children, will experience as a very unpleasant situation that can block them from further learning.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2205	There is a strong consensus that national tests have become better adapted and functioning than they did. That's good. I understand in this case that there is a great deal of agreement. Although the vote does not necessarily make it visible, there is quite a consensus. But there's something there's disagreement about, and that's how we get access to the results both in terms of the exemption rate and in terms of results. In several articles, reference has been made — including from government parties — to the importance of school owners having this as a tool. Does not the Council of State see that it is a paradox that school owners, i.e. municipal government politicians and, to the extent that we, as members of the Church, education and research committee at the Stortinget, are best informed by the Dagbladet and VG about how things are going with the schools, and do not have a different approach to it initially through the publication of results?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2212	No, I don't think so. This is because the knowledge committee at Stortinget should take a look at the overall results of the national tests and how we can use them to support the local learning work. Having information about single schools has no particular value at national level. It can be of value at school, because you can compare your school with national average results and figure something out. But most of the time, there are many factors involved in why the results are as they do, until at last you can possibly get to what's the school's own effort. It may have to do with the level of education of parents, it may have to do with rates of exemption, and there may be other conditions. You have to discuss that locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2217	The national tests and some of the others have given rise to little concern that schools are now only rehearsing, and that it is difficult to get to the education element in school. So far about it. But that's the rate of exemption I'm most concerned with. There is uncertainty as to whether the reputation of the school or the best of the student is at the root of the fact that the rate of exemption increases as it does. The Committee says in two places that it is desirable that as many students as possible be involved in order to avoid doubting the comparability of the results. We say it a little bit stronger down – it's an entire committee. The Council of State was a little unclear in her statement as to whether she also believes that it is a goal to participate as much as possible, and how we can avoid that it should not be the reputation of the school, but the very best of students on the ground.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2224	I don't think I was unclear. I think I tried to say exactly what I think, that there should be a certain room of discretion, because today you can be exempted either if you have decisions about special education or about extraordinary language training and you don't have the benefit of participating in the tests. I think the last point is very important, because it's about how each child experiences the trial situation, and it can be important for further learning. So my deep hope is that we get our shoulders down a little bit when it comes to the discussion of the national tests. They're a tool. If they are used with a sense of reason, they can provide teachers with some information on how the students are compared to a national average. They can provide the school with information on how to relate to a national average. But it's the learning between the tests that is crucial to what is quality. If you practice on a trial situation, I don't think it's that bad. But if you're being tricked and tricked and tricked at what's being measured on national samples, it's at the expense of other things in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2231	The chord shift has been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2236	The representative, Anne Tingelstad Wøien, said that the samples are not «a measure in themselves.» I think there is actually no one in this room who thinks. However, as the representative also said, the tests are ‘a tool for raising quality’. Then it's actually quite so essential that the results can reach school owners and parents without encountering unnecessary obstacles on the way. It is also important that as many students as possible can participate in the national tests. So I think the council has a pretty, what to say, trendy history of national tests. So it's not a political idea of the previous government. In fact, there were also several of today's government parties who agreed to introduce national tests. But what's right is that SV has been against the tests, counterproductively changed their vision to be gradual in order for parts of the student group to be included in the tests, to be present today, that all the students should be included in the tests. So there's certainly been a little bit of a journey for SV in terms of the national tests. I also think that some of the problems with the introduction of the trials at the start-up stage were that there were actually parties here on the Stortinget and almost legitimately said that you sabotaged the tests out, that it wasn't so careful if you were on them, because you didn't like the tests like that. I am sorry, but I am pleased with the journey that the tests have been through, that they have improved, and that the expertise and competence you have both here in the country and abroad have been used to get tests that are as good as possible. So I want to say that I visited the Math Center in Trondheim just before Christmas and had the pleasure of meeting Grethe Ravlo, who is an expert at the mathematics exam of the national exams. I think she is in a very excellent way at a conference that took us on a journey through how a national test should be read by the teacher and by the parents, to find out what kind of task types there are students in the class are struggling with, which means that you can actually put the bump and train in either percentage or fraction or where the problems are actually buried. So those tests can actually provide important information to the teacher, to the parents and, I think, also to us as politicians at the overall level as to how to and should prioritise within subjects or deploy resources to strengthen subjects. Then I want to say to what is said here in terms of ranking, that it's true that the media asking for access to the test results actually get it. And now, as well as before, there are newspapers here that draw up lists of the results in different municipalities and schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2249	Just a little comment at the end. I believe that the form that the national tests have now taken shows that they are quality tests. They have been developed by competent environments. In fact, many teachers spend a lot of time doing their own tests — we know that from the previous debate on time thieves — and can use the national tests to the benefit of using them instead of sitting and doing tests on their own. So there's one thing about time usage in school. It's incredibly important to be able to nuance what information you get about it. I believe that just the job that first Øystein Djupedal did, and then Bård Vegar Solhjell did, in terms of how the national tests found their form, is of great importance that they are now a useful tool for very many teachers and school owners. But it's not like the school-Norway rebellion against the national tests came because SV protested in the staging room. It was simply because you felt like you were getting a samplegime down your ears to rank schools, and that when you go in dialogue with them, and in understanding with those who are going to use the tools you're developing, you can find a form of what makes sense. This has been done in the case of national tests. The discussion of whether it was national tests that all students were to take or that a sample of students were to take, and that the others could eventually use, is not a very rabid discussion. In Finland, national samples are not available. In Finland, samples are available. We all know that Finland has a quality of its training system that is not behind us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2258	The President is now certainly in doubt whether 'rabbiat' is a parliamentary expression or not. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2622]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2276	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2622]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2292	I would just like to point out in general regarding these tax agreements and these information exchange agreements – I said the same thing last time – that I want the Minister of Finance to be able to ensure that all these agreements, both the exchange and the damage agreements, are in consultation with stakeholders and that they are treated with potentially interested parties. We had one unfortunate episode of the tax agreement with Poland, which must not be repeated. Now we've had written consultation on it in the committee, but it's okay that any input comes before they get to the committee. While there is no disagreement about this, there may be organisations and companies affected by special agreements with special countries. I would like to be assured in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2297	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2622]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2313	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2622]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2329	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2623]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2345	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of up to five lines with replies after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time, and that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2352	I am not going to spend a long time on this matter, but first of all I would like to congratulate the opposition on having this matter dealt with so quickly. I think more than myself have received some e-mail in the last month from pensioners who are wondering what the final tax arrangements will look like. The matter itself is a natural follow-up to the treatment of the state budget for the current year, which we had in the harvest, where we posted some changes in relation to the tax on pensions. There, the government asked to come back with a slightly wider transitional code, so that you can take into account the eventualities that lie in it. That's what you've done. The change in the case is 400 million. kr in lost proceeds for the current year. It is a unanimous committee that supports the proposal of the government in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2361	I thank the President-in-Office for his brief comments. I just want to say that you don't lose proceeds, but you let people keep more of their own money, in this case pensions. The aim of the new pensioner tax is to create incentives for retirement pensioners to return to work after reaching retirement age, and that is positive, without taking a new fight over pensioner taxation here. But to punish one third of pensioners for the other two thirds to get tax relief is not a zero-sum game in the case of pensioners tax in Norway. Neither in the case of pensioners nor other economically active persons, there is a zero-sum game in the case of pensions and taxes. It is not a matter of course or a necessity to punish some pensioners for other pensioners to receive tax relief. There is a widespread misunderstanding in this room. The Progress Party wants all pensioners to retain more of their own pension. So pension is a right, and I know from the old rhetoric of the Workers' Party about other things about other employees, that retirement is always a right. We have not heard this in this case. But you can punish pensioners because they've earned too much right by getting pensions. That there is obviously a lack of money in the treasury, although it now seems that you might get 70–80–90–100 billion. kr more than you thought was initially when the year started, and you have 3,000 billion. So I'm going to punish some pensioners for this. Furthermore, this is also a matter which concerns only transitional rules. In other words, I expect that the representative Thomas Breen has answered the pensioners who have called, that no, you should not get any tax increase, at least not before the 2013 Grand Prix. For it is in 2014 that these tax increases, if any, should also apply to them when there is a transitional period of three years. But then I can comfort Thomas Breen that in 2013 we get a new government that does not propose increased taxes on pensions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2370	There is reason to stress that treatment has gone quickly. We now provide more money than we were able to move on during the treatment of the state budget. So there's a reason to think through this a little bit. It's actually 400 million. kr. There are also reactions from the outside, as the rapporteur said, and many of us get an e-mail from pensioners who are obviously insecure about what is happening and who have received a tax increase that they had not expected. Here's something the government didn't see when they proposed the changes in the pensioner tax last year. There is reason to recall that the Right had a scheme when the State budget was treated, which would have given tax relief to all groups. Moreover, there is reason to stress what the previous speaker said that this is a transitional arrangement. The proposition states that ‘pensioners with high interest costs but with so low income that they are taxed under the tax restriction rule’. High interest rates usually mean that you have a high debt. It rarely resolves during a small transition period of three years, with only the first period of full coverage. That's why the right-hand side in the notation has asked that you maybe follow the group a little bit especially to see if this is a group that actually comes out very badly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2379	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 11 and 12 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted. [[See page 2623]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2409	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies following the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2418	These are two things that we've been discussing regularly over the last few years. The reason why they're still coming up again is so much multiple. I want to start by saying that since the issues have different angles of incidence from the different groups in the Stortinget, from now on I want to focus on what is the red-green majority's position on the question. The reason why the issues arise again is that there has been a development in both technology and a development in how the media has used — or perhaps abused — the information they have received through access to the tax lists. Here, there are really two societal reasons that stand a little against each other. On the one hand, there is a need for publicity about fiscal conditions, which contribute to a socially critical debate. I can mention several examples of changes in reality, for example: in the zero-tax spender debate, or, perhaps recently, the debate on dividends from private individuals providing public services. On the other hand, the consideration of privacy, which also, given the development we have seen especially in the media, has been put under pressure. Then there has been a process along the way, both before and after the proposers have made their proposals, including: There have been reports from the police where they have made it apparent that information based on the tax lists has, to some extent — not to a large extent, but to some extent — been used for criminal activity. Media has linked tax lists data with other publicly available information and sold so-called applications to online products. You can, for example: download on your phone the ten richest in the area you are at any time. Then you get a map and you can walk around Oslo City and find out where you have big revenues – that is, a relatively simple tool for those who have bad intentions. Now you shouldn't exaggerate that aspect, of course, because you don't have so many documented events, but it's still a problem. As we have seen developments over the last two years, there is every reason to believe that the problem is also increasing. With regard to what has happened after the proposals have been promoted to the Stortinget, it is a fact that the government has put forward proposals on how this can be resolved, which in a way neither lands on the privacy side nor on the information needs side, but perhaps finds an intermediate solution to limit the full use of information. I think the proposal that has been put forward is exciting. It requires media information management for the next year. It's going to be exciting to see how to deal with that responsibility, because, after all, it hasn't been a lack of warnings both from this pulpit and from the media about the developments that have been taking place in the last few years. These warnings were not followed, so it's going to be exciting to see how the media is dealing with the new set of legislation that you now have to deal with. It is briefly summarised that you sign that you should not misuse surplus information – to call it that – from the lists, and that you do not make the lists searchable for others. This would then prevent the commercialisation seen in the tax lists, provided that the legislation is followed. I think you're going to do that, but it's still to be seen. Finally, I would like to say that this is the background for the red-green fraction proposing to the Stortinget that these two proposals be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2435	The Progress Party is today promoting proposals for a ban on the publication of the tax lists, in combination with a system of concessions for access to the tax lists where specific information on the individual taxpayer is needed. The proposal has been taken up. The principle of general transparency in the tax lists is intended to contribute to ensuring the ability to check that taxpayers are treated equally. However, the use of the lists has evolved into something quite different. There are a number of fundamental objections to the publication of the tax lists – not just the practical ones, on which Breen was involved. Wages and salaries, wealth and taxes are a matter between each taxpayer, employer and government. Those who invoke the freedom of expression in such matters are unable to distinguish between freedom of expression and privacy. It is, in fact, unethical that the State may use forced information provided by the inhabitants for publication without the consent of the inhabitants. There is nothing fundamentally different if the government published an overview of how much each citizen receives from public benefits. In fact, identical arguments can be used for the publication of, for example, social security payments by people. It's just this that's the crown argument for socialists in different denominations. The publication of tax lists creates necessary debates on the tax system and detects any injustices. Publication may reveal tax fraud, it is claimed. This means, in other words, that the authorities encourage an indication. Then it's amazing that after six years in the Financial Committee, I can't remember one such debate, based on the publication of the tax lists. Nor can I recall that what has emerged from such publication has led to debates elsewhere, despite the claims made by the representative of Breen about the opposite. So it's the government's job to reveal this, that's exactly what's the whole point -- not every citizen in society. But what's been a lot of debate about is the actual publication. How many have actually read the tax lists and started a debate on the tax system or the tax level? How many have gone to the tax rate to do that? How many calls have the tax haven received from people who have discovered ‘holes in the tax system’ — which is one of the arguments? Perhaps those who are most concerned with such a violation of privacy may even come up on the pulpit and point to distortions in the tax system or tax fraud that they themselves have revealed. And why is it that Norway is the only country in the world that needs to open up all its taxpayers to a critical debate on the tax system? Or are there perhaps not critical tax debates in any other country on the planet? If it is actually believed that disclosure has an impact on the tax system and the level of taxation, or that it can detect tax fraud, it should be easy to reverse the argument by claiming that what each person receives in public benefits is useful information that can create necessary debates on the social security system and detect any injustices or social security fraud. Perhaps in the future you can report the neighbor for lifting heavily, if you know that he is under-retiremented? Here's the unsavory red-green possibilities. But such a principle approach is unpleasant. No, rather, let's hang out all those who fund the welfare community differently. Let's compare, connect, suspect and accuse and collectively reintroduce the gap stick. For the Progress Party, both forms of disclosure are unethical, unacceptable and privacy violations. We just don't want it like that. Yes, in fact, the publication of the tax lists has become a public incited social pornography. It appeals to one of the least sympathetic qualities of people, namely the gypsy mentality. Yes, we have it to different degrees absolutely all of us. Today’s publication of the tax lists also has a number of other negative consequences. The lists are inaccurate, they contain many errors, tax values in many cases do not reflect the economic reality, the figures emerging are often not final, and taxpayers do not have the opportunity to provide any corrective information. Children and young people are the most active users of the Internet, and publication has led to bullying in school and leisure settings. The publication has been used as a reference for criminals, which has led to extortion and burglary. Furthermore, ID thefts have increased, and figures from last year show that 40,000 Norwegians have chosen to insure against ID theft. The Progress Party is pleased that the government has proposed changes to the way in which the tax lists are to be published in the future. However, we are very disappointed that the government is jumping over the principal aspects of publication, and that it focuses only on some of the practical consequences. As it says: «Tax lists shall remain public but changes in the way the information is made public are proposed.» In the press release sent on 31 January of this year, the government initially claims that income and tax information is a central premise for the social debate, and it is therefore important that the tax lists are public. This is a statement that there is no evidence whatsoever, but that the government takes as a given premise. It's sad, because then there's only possible results of the publication that are wanted to be changed, and that of course will create new unique issues. In the consultation note, the Ministry proposes that the tax lists be publicly available on the tax haven’s websites throughout the year. That people have to switch websites to search the tax lists is probably bad for the online media, but it has the same negative impact on privacy. The system proposed to the press is very worrying. The media shall have access to electronic copies of the tax lists, but the lists shall only be given to editors agreeing with the tax law not to publish complete lists. This is a system which is entirely in the spirit of Prime Minister Berlusconi.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2464	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2467	The matter continues to come up again – I think the case rapporteur said – and then you can just say: it’s because you don’t take the necessary action. It is clear that the issue of tax lists will come up again, because there are a number of conflicting interests around this with privacy, privacy and the need for transparency on the part of society – this is right against each other. In addition, there have been trends in commercialisation and crime and bullying around tax lists. We note that the government is trying to do something about the commercialization part of it, but you don't do anything about crime and bullying. That's why Right thinks you don't go far enough. Right wants openness. There are long traditions of transparency around tax lists in Norway, so we don't want to ban tax lists. But we think there is some reason to take. This can be done much better through anonymised figures, by building up databases to look at social criteria to see whether the tax system works as it should. Because today, we see that society's transparency is largely linked to the identity name or some known name in the local environment or nationally, and then one completely forgets a critical look at the tax system, other than if it's zero-tax collectors and the kind of things you can discuss. So looking at how the tax system works would be much better done through anonymous numbers. So it's this crime thing. There the rapporteur said not to exaggerate the effect. I don't think you should underestimate it either. Because it is clear that there is a rather naive openness in Norway, when we know that new media and the Internet have made these numbers not only outsourced in Norway, they are outsourced around the world. And believing that the rest of the world is going to sit and look at Norway's honey pot without learning how to use this -- the kind of openness I think you're going to have to settle with. And you would do that very well if you didn't allow anonymous searches. The applicant must identify himself/herself to the applicant. Then you would very quickly get rid of neighboring search and all the binoculars that exist. But the media wouldn't be hindered by it. I don't think VG would blink for a moment even if I got a message that VG had applied for me. But I think neighbors would actually stop searching, and criminals would at least have been much harder to get through. The last is this with bullying in the schoolyard. We know that there are school classes that rank parents' income, and you don't use it to bully them with the highest income, I think, but rather to bully those who are low on the social ladder. Then I think this has gone too far. Therefore, the Right has a completely different proposal, which seeks to ban the type of anonymous search and instead to find solutions that need to be identified when applying in the tax lists. I take up the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2480	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2483	The representative Thomas Breen has explained what the government has done in relation to this issue recently. We now have a hearing case where we insist that certain changes should be made in the way this is presented, and in the possibility of applying or where to apply. This is done in the light of the fact that, what to say, extreme commercial interest from some actors, which has made the debate much more than it should have been, has been about the actual publication rather than what has actually been published. However, I would like to use my post to focus on the background that tax lists in Norway are public. Now there are two different proposals being debated here. One, from the Right, does not go as far as the Progress Party, where we want to ban the publication of the tax lists, which we have a long tradition of publishing in Norway, and which is probably some of the basis and background for having little social differences between people in Norway, relative, if we compare with other countries. I want to remind you that having little differences is an important value of our society. I know that especially Christian Tybring-Gjedde from the Advancement Party is not particularly concerned about having small social differences, but from the Red-Green Government it is an important value, and some of the background for us to also put more instruments on the tax side to reverse a trend that was moving towards greater differences between people. It is important to have small differences between citizens in a country; it is not least about trust between citizens. The trust between people gets much worse if the social divisions, the class divisions, increase. Helsa also gets worse, not only for those who are at the bottom of the ladder, but in all parts of the people. There will also be more crime. And it's related to this discussion, because if we close the debate around taxes, around that we're all going to contribute according to ability, we're also laying the foundation for increased differences, because it'll be easier to influence for those who initially have a lot of interest in that there's little transparency around these questions. I think that Christian Tybring-Gjedde jumps very smoothly over an important fact when he says that tax is a matter between the individual citizen, the individual taxpayer, and the state. He jumps over the fact that money is power, and that the discussion about money, about the resources that people sit on, is an important aspect of democracy as well. We need to discuss the allocation of resources and the distribution of the tax burden also in a power perspective. That's why there's a public question about how our tax system works. It is of public interest to have a debate on whether that is what we want: that those who have a lot also contribute the most. And it is important that we have a public and informed debate on justice in our society. Because if we lose the legitimacy of the tax system, if people feel that it's not a fair system, the will to contribute away falls. It also means that the emergence of the community, of an extremely important tool for civilisation, namely tax revenue, will also be threatened. That's why this is a very serious question, which you can't argue with in the way that Christian Tybring-Gjedde does – at least not without a thorough analysis of what it's going to mean for the unification of the community. But it's interesting that the party that is most extreme to distribute the biggest tax credits to those who already have millions – not to say billions – and turn them into zero-tax collectors and it seems that it's all right, and that, in addition, it's okay to flag out or invest their money in tax havens, it's also those who want to ban a public and informed debate on this particular issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2498	The President wants the representatives to talk about their co-representatives with their titles.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2501	As the rapporteur said, we have almost annually considered various proposals for restrictions and changes in practice relating to the publication of the tax lists. At the last reading, in March 2010, the Left proposed tightening tax list disclosure practices to make them publicly available only from public databases/websites. This is, in fact, the same as the proposal that the government has now sent out at the hearing, and it is very pleased with the Left. With regard to the publication of tax lists, we are, as the rapporteur also said, in a tension between two important principles: transparency and privacy. The government's proposal – which is identical to the position of the Left – takes care of both parts in a balanced way, as we see it. Transparency around tax lists has a long tradition in Norway. The main reason is that our tax system is the main foundation for financing public activities and that it is therefore important to have an open debate on how the tax system plays this role. However, the extent to which tax lists are to be transparent is a balance between a range of conflicting interests, including privacy, privacy and the need for transparency and control by society. The left has traditionally chosen to support transparency in the publication of the tax lists. The importance of transparency, control, transparency and, in particular, the legitimacy of the entire tax system has outweighed the importance of privacy and privacy, as there has been an acceptable framework for transparency and transparency. However, following the changes made by the majority of population in 2007, in the view of the Left, developments have gone in the wrong direction. The transparency of tax lists has become more and more a purely commercial entertainment industry, and new technologies, new technological solutions and new social media have led to a seemingly well-founded desire for increased transparency and transparency that we have not fully understood. Therefore, there has been a need for tightening up, as the Left has previously proposed, and as the government is now following up. I also register that many media, including Dagens Næringsliv in the leadership position, support this balanced solution. I am not going to spend more time here today, but end by saying that it is important for the Left that the balanced proposal that the government has now sent to the hearing is adopted in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2514	As others have noted, there is a long tradition in Norway of publishing tax lists. There is also no doubt that publishing tax lists contributes to the transparency of society, and that is important. This is a tradition that has survived many governments, and governments of different colors. And without going back to childhood: I remember it was always an event when the paper version of the tax lists was published by the local merchant. So this is something that has been going on for a long, long time – and as long as I can remember. As several speakers have pointed out, information on income and tax conditions is also important for the social debate. And I am absolutely convinced that transparency around such information helps to strengthen the critical debate on fiscal matters. But it is also the case, as many have pointed out, that this public interest must of course be weighed against other social interests, for example. Unwanted commercialisation. There is also no doubt that the development of new information technologies will make this easier and more accessible, and we have seen results that it is important to try to slow down the development of new information technologies. Therefore, it is important that the tax lists are public. However, changes should be made to the way in which the lists are published. That is the background to the consultation proposal which was sent out on 31 January this year, and which, when we receive the hearing opinions, we will be preparing and promoting a proposal for the Stortinge on so that this can take effect from the harvest this year. Only a few comments on the proposal: one is that the tax lists should be available on the tax haven’s website for one year. We're winding up the paper list system, it's played out its role. The press shall have access to an electronic copy, but one shall have an agreement between the editor and the tax office so that one does not publish the whole or part of the list in searchable form on the Internet. We believe it is a balanced approach, which ensures that the press can use this for critical journalism. But the press's ability to publish the entire tax list in searchable form on the Internet is being removed, and that reduces the risk of abuse after the proposal that we have now sent out, and we believe that that is important. Then the Right has an intermediate proposal. One can always discuss the way this is designed, in reality means that it almost becomes a ban on applying to the lists, or that there will be a very strong tightening of transparency. But I see that this is a sort of intermediate proposal in relation to what is proposed by the Progress Party. As I said, when the consultation round is over, we will put forward a proposal for the Storting in the spring, so that the Storting can then have a new discussion on the final proposal to publish tax lists in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2528	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2531	The government is justifying the publication of the tax lists to control and to have access to the tax system, to treat people equally. The same argument can, of course, be used in the case of government benefits for those who receive social security benefits, so that they are treated equally, that they control the neighbor and control that there is no sneezing, no tax sneezing or social security sneezing. You talk about these types over the kitchen table, etc. Then you can have a real public debate. The progress party is against both of these two privacy violations and simply believes that it is unethical that you have to publish that kind of thing. The same applies to the health of individuals: there is also something that, although the state has access to information about it, should not be communicated to everyone else in society. What is the basic reason why the names of those who contribute taxes to society are to be published and that they are put in gap, while the names of those who may need social security benefits and receive that type of health care are not to be published, when exactly the same justification can be used for these two categories?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2540	There's a pretty big difference between the two things. Firstly, the tax system is entirely central to the financing of the Community's revenue, and thus also of the Community's expenditure. It is important that there is a great deal of transparency about the design of the tax system and a discussion about it, and spending the tax lists contributes to it. Then we have a system -- what we can call social security -- that will help people who are in a difficult situation. It would be quite different if we were to start publishing income relationships to people who have been in a very difficult social situation. There's a big difference in principle between the two things.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2547	But it is that many of those who pay taxes pay very little taxes or have quite little wages, and they have children in school who are subjected to bullying, etc. That's not typical of the coffers in society, which the Minister of Finance refers to pretty much here. Obviously, there are many people who get more public benefits than they actually have rights and rights to. I repeat that the Progress Party considers this principle to be wrong, and I would like to have the Minister of Finance's principal reason why the name of people who have little tax, low income, no wealth, and who may have children who are bullied in school or elsewhere, while not being able to give the name of people who receive, for example. social security benefits – not just that you feel sorry for them, and that it has always been that way. But what's the principle justification? After all, there must be a principle and ideological justification for the policies pursued, and not just general considerations about the development of society over the past 30 to 40 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2554	I refer to my previous answer, which I think was a good explanation of why there's a pretty substantial difference between the two things. Providing according to ability and getting as needed is a very central line in society, and having transparency about income and tax matters contributes to a good debate on those things. So there may be – and that is a bit of the background because we have put forward proposals to tighten up the use of tax lists – unfortunate results that we should rather be ahead of, and I believe that the proposal that is now in place is a good balance between having transparency on these issues and being tightened up at the same time. But there's a difference in substance between this and publishing relationships that relate to people who come into a difficult economic situation and who need the security of the community when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2561	Technological developments require a review of the balance between privacy and transparency. The Minister of Finance will be in favour of addressing this issue now and trying to address one of the challenges that technological development has given us, namely the commercialisation of the tax list. But there are also other considerations that the Right is concerned about, and there is ID theft, crime, bullying and ranking parental income. This challenge does not take account of the proposals made by the Minister of Finance. That's why the Right has launched an alternative that doesn't involve any kind of ban or almost ban, but that means that it's completely possible to apply, but you have to legitimize yourself. That is why my question is: is not the Minister of Finance concerned with the crime aspect of the transparency of the lists and can he confirm that the Minister of Finance's proposals will not meet that challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2568	I am concerned about what Mr Sanner is now dealing with, and that is precisely the background to the proposal that has been sent out. I also want to refer to the letter that I sent to the committee, where it is suggested that an option in terms of applying to the tax lists would be to use MinID as an entry port to tax lists. It is a proposal that we will consider after the hearing. This means that it will be much harder to search than to search freely with mobile phones and other things. I think that if a porter there, it could be an opportunity to maintain both transparency and to make it harder actually to commercialize that kind of information. Yes, I'm concerned about it, and that's the background for the consultation proposal as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2575	Commercialisation is clearly taking the proposal into account, and it seems to the Right as I said is positive, but it is the crime side that the Right is concerned about here. I can't see that the Minister of Finance's proposal in any way makes it more difficult for criminals or people who want to commit ID theft, to apply relatively freely, with the proposal that is on the table. So I'm going to ask the Minister of Finance to also look at the Right proposal, which ensures transparency and makes it fully possible to search the anonymous numbers, and fully possible also for the VG, the Daily and others to tell how much the tops of society serve, but it could lead to thieves and others refusing, because you have to legitimize in search.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2580	I see the issues that the representative Sanner is about to raise. Nor do I ignore the fact that tax lists are available, can contribute to bullying, but we must tackle this with a slightly wider range than just focusing on the tax lists. ID theft is a challenge – false identity, which some people can get, and which we have seen in another case about getting tax cards. Generally speaking, IT security is at stake in general, important areas of government, because the new information technology makes it easier than it was before getting a false identity or getting into IT systems. All proposals will be considered, both through the consultation and through the discussion we have now had. I believe, however, that the Ministry of Finance has put forward a very balanced consultation proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2589	We'll hardly agree on how we're going to deal with this. We note that. However, I would like to refer to the hearing note that has now been sent to the hearing, which will form the basis for the matter that the government will present. In this case, the Tax Directorate has proposed, in consequence for any newspapers that break this agreement, that, among other things. shall be able to impose fines. The government concludes that it must maintain that the next year's newspapers do not have this access and reject the proposal to fine newspapers that violate such an agreement. My question is: Do you reject this with fines on the newspapers and the media on a principle basis, or is there something you would consider at a later stage if this does not work with the reaction pattern that is in the hearing note as of today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2598	Now I'm not going to pre-empt the final proposal that comes to Stortinget, but it's in the nature of the matter that when you make an agreement with the Tax Directorate on publication and how to do it in the press and you break that agreement, there must be reaction possibilities, and they can be more. Not being allowed to sign an agreement next year is an opportunity, another is fines. We have to come back to that when we see the hearing opinions, but there has to be sanctions against those who do not comply with an agreement – it should just be lacking.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2604	The cord shift has thus been completed. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2609	First of all, I would like to say that I will acknowledge Tybring-Geded against, for he has. I'll come back to why. It's clear that what you know from research done around this field is that transparency connects with a tax system. That's something we want. In any case, it is an important element for all parties other than the Advance Party. It's so funny that it's the party that's most eager to be the most expansive in its budgetary policy, which is least concerned with having an upturn around the income side of the government budget. But I think it is a safeguard that all parties, except the Progress Party, recognise both the need for transparency and the need for privacy. That means that no matter how things go in the future, at least there will be a real debate around these two sizes, which will ensure that in the future you will also have an openness around such an important question in some form. So back to the motto: I think it requires great courage to be up on this pulpit and assert with patos that his party is the only one that has a principle approach to this issue, when all the other parties from this pulpit in this debate have said that here is the principleal consideration that weighs against each other. Then it could be that there is a party that does not recognise the one principle that all the other parties see, and it demands against it. So I'll end by saying that courage is often a positive property. What I've learned through growth, is that sometimes bikes move over to something else. You have to be careful, but that's the way it is now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2620	Then the president has to repeat himself. The President believes that representatives should talk about each other by name and not by name.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2623	I thank you for the wise advice from the experienced Thomas Breen. I really appreciate them and I'll use them in the future. My comments are first addressed to the representative of Thorkildsen. Firstly, there is a broad consensus on the tax system in Norway. That's the level of taxation we're discussing. If one believes that the publication of the tax lists will create debate and commitment among the people most and among No Marte Thorkildsen's voters, and that this should be reported back to the Tax Act with: Look at the unfairness of this, and look at the unfairness here! The neighbor made so much money. He has so much in fortune and pays so little tax! Is it positive for society? Is that the transparency we're going to have? Is that what society should strive for? Is that what creates the social equality that we all want? Does the representative Thorkildsen think that's what we're going to get out of this? Is that the result up to now? Why is it that Norway is the only country in the world to assess it that way? Yes, I am aware that there have been old books at the Tax Agency that could be opened and found out what the neighbor was serving, etc. But how many actually did that? We live in another world. We can't justify what it was like for the merchant 50 years ago. It's another world, and then we have to look at this in principle. I believe the principle is that privacy is more important than the transparency of what the neighbor serves, and it also creates no debate. It doesn't create any changes in the tax system, nor does it create any positive things, except that you have a history of this. I want to return to the agreement to be concluded with the editors. Have a taste of this: the Tax Agency or the Ministry of Finance – that is the Tax Agency, I guess – will enter into an agreement with the editors to give the editors full access to the lists, but they should not be able to use that access. It shall be capable of being used piece by piece and divided under the agreement concluded with the Ministry of Finance. In which other areas of society can a ministry or government enter into an agreement with an open and free press that they publish piece by piece and split, and this under an agreement? If they break the agreement, they lose access to information, or in the worst case they get fines. There's no other place. And that is, those editorials can sit with all the information, they can coordinate all the information, they can sit around the editorial table and laugh at each other because they've compared the lists, but they're not allowed to publish it, but they can publish it individually and in part and in part. And when they publish piece by piece, it's impossible for the person who hangs out, or the person who says it's the best paid or the worst paid – because they have nowhere to go, they have nowhere to defend themselves. You say first that you should have transparency about this, but you should limit it to the editorial work under an agreement with the authorities. That kind of agreement is in the spirit of Silvio Berlusconi, and we in Norway are very, very careful to criticize relationships in Italy. That's the exact same case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2632	I can't believe that Christian Tybring-Gjedde doesn't see that it's valuable that there's discussions in society that highlight whether we have a fair tax system, and that those debates are just blowing up in the context of publishing the tax lists. It's not long since some of us were in debates on TV about our tax system, especially about the taxes on wealth, which came into the cold water from the publication of the tax lists, and the media took this into account, among other things. based on an approximation of justice. I have a feeling that the Progress Party, and especially the representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde, combines the sense of justice in the people and the perception that it's really about envy, that justice and justice are nothing else. It is very important that we ensure that we can have a debate related to justice by allowing those who really have great resources and a lot of power in society to escape by paying very little in contributions to the community. That debate was put at the head of the shipowner Stolt-Nielsen, who even had the stomach to ask the Norwegian community to stand up for him, after he had emigrated from Norway to avoid paying taxes to this community. I record that special representatives from the Progress Party are in the vanguard of some of these people who do not want to contribute to the community after they have even used public schools, the public health service, their own family members, and they think it is perfectly all right that they just run away from this country, even though they really have no problem contributing to the community. That not the representative Tybring-Gjedde and especially his party sees that it is important to get these discussions up from a principle consideration of democracy, I think it is strange. I think it comes from not seeing that there is a difference between being concerned about justice and being petty – that there are not two sides to the same thing, or that this is about envy. It's about justice. I don't think we're ever getting close to agreeing on these questions -- I think I'm okay -- but it's important that at least people in Norway are aware that there's a very big difference in the principleal approach to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2650	I have to say I'm quite provoked when I listen to the representative Thorkildsen, because when you're so concerned with justice, you should at least be a little concerned that the tax lists actually contain a lot of mistakes. It is errors that then remain out of place for a whole year, precisely because the tax authorities are not required to rectify it, and the editorials do not fix it at least when errors are first presented. We had an example last fall, where he who was on the income list in Norway as number two, actually had an income of one percent of what was in the tax lists. There was only one mistake made by the Tax Directorate. So when the representative Thorkildsen is so concerned with justice, you stop being just naive to what's being published. And then it's the second -- to mention many of those who run and own the largest businesses in Norway, as if they don't contribute. If you were concerned with justice, you should also find out what these people actually contribute to society. It is not that taxes are paid only on the person's hand; taxes are also paid through companies. So in the case of the zero-tax problem, one should be concerned about getting it into a real light and not abuse it in a debate in the way that the representative Thorkildsen does. Because then we could actually get a pretty good debate about the function of the tax system and whether you achieve what you want with the tax system. And that's one of the things. Right has suggested that we should build up much better anonymized numbers, because then one could also analyze the distribution effect without connecting it to people and celebrities, which we know remove any critical sense in all editorials when this comes to looking around in the media. This was just to get that debate a little bit more balanced than the representative of Thorkildsen's power.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2659	First of all, I would just like to inform you that the Progress Party subsidiaryly endorses the Right-wing proposal contained in the Innst. 190 S, so you've cleaned it up right away. I have been sitting in my office and joined the debate. There has been an interesting debate, which has been culminated in the speeches by the representative Thorkildsen about justice and that piece, on which she has put great emphasis. The problem is that it might seem that the representative Thorkildsen does not fully see the consequences of a proposal relating to the publication of the tax lists. The representative constantly places emphasis on the rich, and that it is important to keep up with them. The problem with the tax lists is that they are also used at the other end – they are actually used as a tool for bullying children of parents who do not have high incomes, and where it becomes the big issue at school: Yes, they have so little money, they are so poor. What about the sense of justice of Thorkildsen's representative? It certainly does not apply then. The representative of Thorkildsen also used his post to refer to Mr. Stolt-Nielsen here instead. I shall at least guarantee that both the shipowner Stolt-Nielsen and his family will pay, and have paid, infinitely much more tax and contribute more to the community than the representative Thorkildsen will do. Because it's not just that it's whether the company is registered here or there, which makes you participate and contribute. Seafarers of these companies, the returns and the investment, yes, all of this is also part of and contributes to getting resources to the community. It was even pointed out that it was almost a frenzy that Stolt-Nielsen wanted help from the Norwegian authorities. What was relevant was whether Norway should be involved and contribute as one of the world's largest maritime nations to ensure Norwegian seafarers and Norwegian values, the same persons who are involved and contribute to the community, those who are involved and contribute to the maintenance of the well-being that we have, that helps our goods to be sent around the world market, and that we get a refund. When it comes to publishing tax lists, it's not just a matter of taking the richest. We also have to take into account those that are at the other end of the scale, those that maybe every time these tax lists come out, get bullied because you don't have the high incomes. Perhaps the representative of Thorkildsen will take it over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2670	The President believes that putting what Mr. Inga Marte Thorkildsen is going to contribute to the tax, in the context that the representative Nesvik now did, is premature. No Marte Thorkildsen has had the word twice and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2675	With that temperature I get the impression that I have actually hit a little sore toe. But what I'm going to say is that I get the impression that you're trying to push people who earn little, in front of you in a debate that, after all, isn't about it. I have been involved in discussing bullying in school on the radio earlier today, and there are a lot of things you can do with it. You could, for example, Introduced school uniforms for everyone, or could not introduce grades from fourth or fifth grade at primary school – for which the Progress Party has agreed – that we know could lead to a number of problems for young people. But that discussion we're going to have to compare to bullying. This is an important principle, namely the publication of tax lists. Then I think it's simply not appropriate to push someone who makes little money, in front of him, when this is really about having an open discussion about the basis of the community.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2682	Unfortunately, it's not as simple as the representative Thorkildsen is trying to give the impression, because if you're going to get the bully alive, you have to look at what's at the root of the bullying. Where do you get that information? What is the background for some to be bullied in a period of high or low income? You can't solve that with a school uniform. There are a lot of instruments that can be put in place in this context. The representative Thorkildsen is trying through this to create the impression that those who make money in this country are trying to avoid taxation. That's not what this is about. We're going to be terribly happy that there are people in this country who make money, because it shows that we can create jobs, it shows that we have the means to make new investments so that people out there have the opportunity to get a job. That's what makes us have money to finance schools, care for the elderly, hospitals, etc. The money of the public doesn't just count on a mountain, someone has to create it. You're always trying to create a debate, considering that you're going to take those who make money. I do not share the approach angle of the representative Thorkildsen. I think it's healthy that people make money in this country. What's not healthy is that in this one period every year we're going to publish, go out into public space and tell how much each servant earns. The problem is that the sum of these lists is not real either. It doesn't say anything about the actual income situation of the individual. What it really says about, is who has bad advice, and they're getting bad into this. We have to see the whole picture, and not just this one bounded part of the case, as the representative Thorkildsen is trying to imagine us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2691	First, I would like to point out that no one in this debate has spoken negatively about making money. No one has spoken negatively about getting rich on it either. No, it's not. No one has made fun of anyone who has succeeded either. It must be a feeling that Nesvik's representative has got in the office or in a misconception. At least I don't recognize any of the elements of this debate. On the other hand, there have been two principles, the principle of transparency and the principle of privacy. All parties, except one, recognize that the two principles are in this debate here. In that perspective, one might wonder why the one party, which only recognises the one principle, should support a proposal from the Right subsidiary. It's kind of a funny thing for me. With regard to the shipowner Stolt-Nielsen, I am a little uncertain about whether to give him some more space for folding. After all, he did not politely ask the Norwegian shipping nation to set up in the Gulf of Aden. What I remember best from that play, and which was most mentioned in the media, was a shipowner who thought you should be shot on the spot, hung or lowered with man and mouse. He even went so far that the Shipowners' Association took a sharp distance from the play. Why you need to paint it, I don't understand. It can then be agreed that there is a major debate on Norway to contribute in the Gulf of Aden now or in 2012, but it is not a matter of this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2703	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 11 and 12. [[See pages 2624 and 2623]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2719	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2726	I wonder if I am about to get into a little too early World Cup form with the trips up and down here today. Also in this case, there are slightly different views outside and go between the different groupings. I expect the others to explain their views, and therefore in my speech I will explain why the parties in government will not adopt this proposal. The proposal is to introduce the system before the tax reform introduced in 2006. At the time, we had a divisional model that separated income from labour and capital. This system did not function as intended, because it was easy to circumvent the legislation through, for example: adapting the activity requirements limit. The consequence of this was that a tax system was introduced in which the same type of income was taxed differently. This also led to a lower redistribution than envisaged, and the overall reduction in tax revenue. The tax reform of 2006 replaced the sharing model with a screening method in which we are now shielding the risk-free return on capital invested for additional taxation. In addition, a screening method was introduced with a shareholder model and a participant model, providing better non-discrimination for shareholders, participants and individual enterprises. The aim of the reform was to tax people with equal income, equally. For this reason, it can also be said that the forestry situation was intentional and desirable. But even though forestry felt that the reform was exacerbating, I would point out that the industry still has many favourable tax arrangements. Here I can mention the forest fund scheme, the average equation and social security contributions with intermediate rates as examples. The majority also believe that it is unnatural to classify the revenue from forest property as a passive return on capital for as long as it can be said that forest owners can equate their operational responsibilities with other industries, regardless of whether they hire help or do the work themselves. It would also be unfortunate to have a forest owner classified as a passive asset manager without any business ties. This is the main background that red-green lots will not adopt the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2737	The tax regime for forest property was severely tightened in the context of the tax reform in 2004-2006 because the possibility of operating forestry as a purely capital management was curtailed. Revenue and gains on the realisation of forest property owned by individual enterprises are subsequently taxed on the new business model as revenue at peak tax rates if the return on business goes beyond a protection rate corresponding to a normal return determined by the ministry. In the past, forestry income was considered to be capital management on the basis of its long cycle. The tax rate was 28 pst. Now it can go into 50 pst. Both the Norwegian Forest Association and the Progress Party warned against this in the context of the treatment of tax reform. The progressing party said that one should look at an extraction model or make a risk premium in the screening rate of between 4 and 6 percentage points in addition to the risk-free interest rate. Forests are traditionally owned in Norway through an individual enterprise as they are also the most common form of ownership in Norwegian agriculture. The Progress Party opposed the proposal for tax reform for which the government was given a majority with the Workers' Party. The reform provides for strong tax incentives for Norwegian business. However, when the reform was implemented, the Progress Party promoted a modification proposal to improve the reform for business, innovation and initiatives. This is important for maintaining safe Norwegian jobs and for creating new ones. The Party of Progress notes that the Committee of Inquiry assesses the possibility of introducing a model based on distribution taxation and that the Ministry has assessed an exit solution but has ended up rejecting such a solution. However, we point out that several of the hearing bodies considered that an extraction-based model should also be able to be implemented for individual enterprises, and that this should be further investigated. The Norwegian Authorised Accounting Association has even presented a possible model. The Progress Party notes that for individual industries and districts there will be dramatic consequences if you do not have the opportunity to follow an exit model. The Norwegian Forest Association fears that this could eliminate the possibility of operating forestry as a purely capital management, as is currently the case, with the consequences of this for forest rejuvenation and renewal, as well as district settlement. In addition, the Progress Party would point out that forestry is an international, competitive industry, where the tax system should not destroy competitiveness and incentives for rational management. I would also like to highlight the significant disadvantage of a current tax burden, as there is no possibility of saving funds in the business without additional taxation. The notion of equal treatment between types of companies suggests that individual undertakings should also have such an opportunity. Another drawback to the ongoing taxation of individual enterprises is the realisation of larger operating assets or assets that are intended to reinvest in new ones. It is not reasonable for the activity to be taxed for that gain to the extent that the consideration is sufficient to obtain a new equivalent operating resource. We also see that Norway’s Authorised Accounting Association in its letter of 25 May 2005 to the Finance Committee of the United Kingdom points out that the rules on excise duty for individual enterprises should have been given greater attention and further explored before concluding that it was not possible to implement excise duty for this group. The Progress Party notes that the majority considers that classifying forest owners as passive asset managers without business ties would not be socially beneficial. We also record in the light of this that the government proposed instead to buy forest areas under the companies Borregaard Skoger AS, Borregaard Vafos AS and Børresen AS through Statskog SF for taxpayers' money at a price of SEK 1.7 billion. kr. The amount is likely to be too high and the sum is poorly justified. The Progress Party believes that it would have been a much better solution to develop sensible tax rules that do not allow foreign capital to be favored when Norwegian forest properties are offered for sale. The party of progress is critical of the fact that it must be a state task to own forests, bogs and lizards. The promotion party is of the opinion that forests on the hands of private operators provide the best forest management over time. At the Nordic Council in Reykjavik last year, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg stood in the pulpit and stated that he has great faith that the market is self-governing, that we must therefore let market forces rule, and that it is not in Norway that the state should own a country. In international contexts, the Prime Minister agrees with the policy of the Progress Party. So where was the prime minister when the state council went in order for Statskog SF to buy Orkla's forests? The new slogan of the government must be: Do as we say, don't do as we do. You get the impression that the state has driven up the price of forest property. The Progress Party is surprised and disappointed that taxpayers’ money is being used in this way, and questions how this investment can ever be profitable. The current cash flow from the properties cannot defend such an investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2774	The President assumes that the representative should also make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2777	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2782	The representative, Mr Träldal, then referred to the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2785	For many forest owners, forest land is considered to be the bank account itself, and timber is often regarded as interest. Forest is an asset in Norway that is, of course, subject to property taxes. Forest logging timber can be regarded as a return on wealth and should therefore be able to obtain a capital income assessment on the basis of such a type of perception. Forestry is beekeeping for most forest owners. This means that forest income today comes on top of ordinary income and is often charged with top taxes, of course up to 50 pst. Taxation of forest income as capital income can be a powerful incentive to achieve the political objective of increasing forest logging in Norway. If a person uses the money to invest in shares, the return on that money will be taxed as capital income. If you sell the portfolio, it'll be the same in terms of capital taxes. If the corresponding amount is used to purchase a forest property, the income is taxed as revenue. If one sells the property out of the family, the entire sales gain is taxed as personal income. There is quite a difference between industry and others, and a major challenge for Norwegian agriculture. Growth in Norwegian forests has been around 25 million in recent years. m3. Much of this volume is, of course, not impulsive, but the impact of industrial activities through reporting from, among other things. Norwegian forest has an output of approximately 6,5 and 8,5 million. m3 per year. And of course we'll work on it. The forestry industry believes that sustainable logging can be increased by 5 million. m3 if you know that a first-hand value of such a lot of timber could be 1.7 billion. kr. The logging of forests is the first paragraph of a Norwegian value chain with large societal effects. Many people in the forest industry like to use 10 and 12 times to take care of the portfolio. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change states in its fourth main report: ‘In the long run, sustainable forestry aimed at maintaining or increasing forest carbon stocks while being produced annually will have the greatest climate impact for timber, fibre and bioenergy.’ St.meld. No 39 for 2008-2009, Climate challenges – agriculture as part of the solution, have increased logging as an objective to strengthen the importance of forests in climate action. The significance of the forest in climate context is not exploited when the activity is too low. Climate change 2020, to which the Right refers in its proposal, proposes an explicit objective of a reintroduction of 28 pst. taxes on the entrepreneurial income of forest for all owner groups could stimulate increased logging in the forest. Market and technological developments have been driven by the Norwegian agricultural property structure. 40 pst. of Norway’s cultivated land is still tenure land, and 60 pst. farmers depend entirely on renting land to run profitablely. The banks, which provide collateral for the investments, do not always accept leased land as collateral. The self-righteous peasant is unfortunately beginning to become a myth. If Norway is to develop a robust, profitable property structure, it is necessary to provide an opportunity for those who wish to invest in agriculture to acquire additional land. If a few purchased additional areas, of course, others have to be willing to sell. Today, family sales are tax-free if they are sold at no part price, but are sold out of the family, which is not unusual – and which is the reason that very few agricultural properties are sold – the sales profit is taxed as entrepreneurial income, and thus also with top taxes, i.e. by half. And then no one bothers to sell. Thus, we have a system that stimulates the maintenance of a property structure that the industry is not served with, and that Norway as a nation is not served with. In the context of the evaluation of the tax reform and the preparation of the new agricultural notification, which has both started and started, the government should use the opportunity to assess whether forest income and, in particular, the gain on the sale of forest property are to be taxed as capital income. I take up the Right proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2821	The representative of Arve Kambe has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2824	I take the floor only to promote the proposal by the Christian People's Party and the Left that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2830	The representative Borghild Tenden then addressed the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2833	This could be an interesting debate on forest policy in general, but we do well to reserve it for the nutrition committee, so that we are not accused of interfering in the debate of other committees. The representative Kambe made me think of something that I wondered about many times when I traveled across the border from Hedmark and into Sweden and drove down along the Älvdalen – that was the case with the bank book. I expect that the representative Gundersen has also seen it; I noticed that on the valley sides there was a rectangular field in the middle of the forest. This I wondered for a long time what was wrong. Then there was a Swedish who explained that it was in Swedish called PV hatches. That was exactly the area of forest that had to be harvested in order for a Swedish forest owner to get a PV. He took it out of the bank account and bought himself this amazing car. - It was a little side run. I believe that what is important on this occasion is that one had tax rules before the 2004–2006 tax reform that were beneficial to the forest industry, among others. the old divisional model from the 1992 tax reform. It turned out that the activity requirement contained in the split model was easy to bypass. There was also some background to the introduction of a new scheme more generally in the 2006 tax reform. The purpose of that reform was to tax persons with equal income equally. Then it's an intentional effect that some people who had a modest tax before got a certain sharpening. I would also like to point out to the rapporteur that the forestry industry has a number of special arrangements in the tax system: intermediate-rate social security contributions are mentioned, average compensation, forest fund schemes, direct costing of road installations and profit exemptions in intra-family sales with a discount of 25 p.m. after 10 years of part-time work. I just want to grab hold of something that has also been promoted in the debate, and it is that I believe that for many forest owners it is such that it not only involves a clear nutrition exercise, but one also has a well-defined operational responsibility under forestry law. Exclusion of personal forestry income from the ordinary tax rates applicable to traders in a separate classification of income as a passive return on capital out of industry seems to me to be a weakly justified proposal. I believe that it is actually so that many forest owners – I know some forest owners because I have the joy of coming from the country's largest and best forest counties – put down a great deal of self-esteem on their property, so that some of the operating profit is probably more labour return than capital return in the industry. I also believe that forest owners who are active, who are competent and conscientious, would rather be classified as active foresters than as passive asset managers. However, this issue and more questions need to be addressed when we are going to discuss the evaluation of the tax reform in 2006, and the taxation of traders is an important part of that evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2850	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2853	At the Nordic Council in Reykjavik last year, Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg stood on the platform and said: I have great faith that the market is self-governing. That is why we must control market forces. It is not the case in Norway that the country should own a country. Then my question becomes to the Council of State: Why is the Minister of Finance on a collision course with his own Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2860	I think it's going to be a little too far. Both the State and the public are major landowners in Norway, the state through State Forest. In my county, Hedmark, there are many municipalities that have significant properties such as municipal forest, and of which these municipalities have good use. It is clear that there should be a diversity of owners. Now I wasn't in Iceland, so I don't know in what context this was said, but I'm now assuming that the prime minister's aim is that one must have a variety of owners in the country. The public is a major landowner, and the public will probably also be a major landowner in the future. There are different considerations that make the public such a landowner, among other things. As I said, municipalities that own forests are in many cases good forest owners. Forest revenues are also used as part of financing for important municipal purposes. We'll probably see a variety of ownership in the future, including here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2867	The statements made by the Prime Minister in Reykjavik were from his introduction that it was important to allow the industry to rule, and that the state should not put too clumsy a hand over this. I record that I did not get an answer to the question that I asked the first time, so I want to moderate the question and ask it this way: When you look at that agreement again, is there any chance that the Minister of Finance can talk to the Prime Minister, so that the Prime Minister's words that the State should not own a country are followed?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2874	I refer to the answer I gave instead. It will probably be that, in the foreseeable future, both the State and the municipality will be major founders in this country. At the same time, there will also be a large element of private landowners, as it is also in forestry in Norway. There are many good private landowners who do a great job both to cultivate the forest and to harvest the forest in a good way. We will probably see a mix of public and private owners in the case of real estate in Norway, including in particular forests.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2879	In the context of parts of the Right proposal, we have looked at this – we have respect for the tax reform in the Right too, and of course there should be something in and out of it when major changes are made to the tax reform. But in the case of agricultural properties in general, and in this case forest properties in particular, a person can imagine empty A and empty B for the same reason. One plot is regulated for industry, so you can technically actually build a gas station. You get a high price for it, and you get a low tax. The other plot is a forest property, so you get a low price and a high tax. To what extent does it contribute to getting a living barley Norway? And is the Council of State willing to look specifically at the consequences of this policy in relation to both the forthcoming agricultural notification and the evaluation of the tax reform that will result in you getting too little forest property and thus little deforestation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2886	Now I am not going to pre-shoot an agricultural message that is being prepared. I would like to leave at least that part of the job to the Minister of Agriculture, so that we also have the basis for a wide-ranging debate on these issues in Stortinget. So it's probably also that it's not possible to make a general rule that says that it's just the big forest owners that are good forest owners. I also know many smaller forest owners who run their forest in a reasonable and conscientious way. As I referred to in my article, there are many schemes for the forest industry that help to cushion the tax, for example. average equation, which is an important part of forest taxation. So I don't think I can signal here and now that there will be significant changes in this through the evaluation of the tax reform. I think we have had a good reform that shows that income is taxed fairly equally. So, excuse me, President, now speaking time is over, and then I'd rather come back to other considerations around the forest on other occasions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2897	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2902	By the end of 2009, it was registered approx. 120 000 properties with at least 25 beds of productive forest land. About 2,000 of these were owned by the state or other impersonal owners. About 36 700 forest properties were run in combination with farming, which is approx. 800 fewer than in 2008. Of these approx. The 120000 properties were taken out for sale in 2009 for only about. 12 500. This again is approx. 2 900 fewer than the year before. The proportion of harvesting varies, inter alia: where you own the property, the price of the timber, and not least the tax rate. The proportion of logging properties increases by the size of the property. Of properties that are larger than 2000 000 dekars, there is a yield of approx. 77 pst. every year. With regard to the economy, only 23,900 people had a positive income from forestry when all services were included. This is also a decline from last year. What's also worth noting is that the average income is only NOK 34,000, and that is only 15 pst. of all had a taxable income of more than NOK 50000. But this also showed a decline. The highest average income was too high in Hedmark County. What does this tell us? In the view of the Progress Party, a reduction in the tax rate will go back to 28 pst. lead to more activity in forestry – with all positive ring-effects. An investment in new forest means that the next harvest may be in 70–80 years, depending on wood species, bonyness, care, climate, etc. Therefore, this type of industry cannot be compared to any other industry, and what is harvested has been invested in for generations. Once again, if it becomes more economically interesting to run the forest, tax revenue will increase, and it will in turn give more employment and thus good ring-fences. It will also provide more stable deliveries to the timber industry. Important is also the recruitment of the profession. When the income base is reduced, the number of those who will operate this type of industry is also reduced. It should also be borne in mind that forestry property is located in districts where unemployment is often relatively high. Reasonable tax rules in forestry will also make us more competitive in the foreign market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2918	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2624]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2926	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e2934	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs at the Stortinget meeting on 17 February 2011 on the status and prospects of Norwegian aquaculture be annexed to the Protocol. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e3039	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 3 and 4, by Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 5, from Elisabeth Aspaker on behalf of the Right Proposals Nos. 1 to 4 is included on page 15 of the vote, while proposal No. 5 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 5, from the Right, during the debate has been converted into a transmission proposal and is amended accordingly. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended that the government review teachers’ time use by 2013 at the latest in order to clarify whether the measures announced are working and whether the individual teacher has been given more time for teaching and professional guidance by the individual student.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government requests the establishment of a ‘regulatory board’ composed of parties to verify the consequences of new rules and changes to existing school-related rules, with a view to reducing red tape and freeing up more time for teachers’ core functions in school.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government asks the government to set a concrete measurement figure – 25 pst. – for the reduction in the number of state circulars, regulations, etc. in school context.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e3085	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to return to the Storting with a concrete financial escalation plan for the measures indicated to require ‘essential public appropriations’ in the Time Usage Committee’s report.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e3100	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to return to Stortinget with concrete measures to increase the inclusion of other groups in the school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e3131	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Bente Thorsen on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 5 and 6, by Svein Harberg on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 7, by Svein Harberg on behalf of the Right and Left proposal No. 8, from Svein Harberg on behalf of the Right There is a vote on proposal No. 8 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to establish cooperation with municipalities and county councils with special competence and to give them a national responsibility to conduct training for adults with lack of basic skills. Local authorities shall be compensated for having this additional responsibility.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e3161	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to establish a programme of basic competence in the voluntary sector. [[BKF]] The Christian People's Party has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e3178	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a campaign to help reduce the stigma associated with lack of basic skills, so that more adults are seeking help.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to strengthen its teaching skills in adult education.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e3200	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to launch a national initiative on adults with poor literacy skills and poor basic skills. The bet shall extend for a period of 10 years up to 2021.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to facilitate better the provision of basic competences for adults by study associations, distance learning and other non-governmental organisations.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking that those who are outside the labour market and who are assisted by public authorities are automatically offered basic skills mapping.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that there is consistency between the training rights of adults and the training provision of this group.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e3248	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Jon Georg Dale on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 3, by Jon Georg Dale on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for full transparency on the rates of exemption and the results of the national tests as part of quality development in Norwegian school.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e3272	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up clearer guidelines for national samples in general and for the exemption regulation in particular.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to carry out checks and sampling of schools and to contribute to the special follow-up of schools with special deviations.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e3533	We have now come to Case No. 11 and 12, which were treated as a whole earlier this evening. The President will propose that we vote on case No first. 12, because the Progress Party has expressed its wish to receive subsidiary support for the Right-wing proposal under case No. 11th@item: inlistbox – No objections have been raised and this procedure is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e3541	During the debate, Christian Tybring-Gjedde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to propose a ban on the publication of tax lists, in combination with a system of concessions for access to tax lists where specific information on the individual taxpayer is needed.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e3568	During the debate, Gunnar Gundersen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to tighten up the availability of income and wealth relationships for individuals as soon as possible and to look at solutions similar to the credit information system, which will prevent the misuse of tax information and reduce the number of calls.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on. The Progress Party has, as stated, notified its support for the Right-wing Proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e3595	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1 by Mr Torgeira Tåldal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 2, by Arve Kambe on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 3, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks in the evaluation of the tax reform and the preparation of the agricultural notification to assess the consequences of amending the tax law in order to tax forest income and profit on the sale of forest property as capital income and, where appropriate, to present proposals in line with this.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e3622	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to amend the tax law so that revenue from forestry and forestry management will again be regarded as capital income, at a tax rate of 28 p.m., from the income year 2011.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e3641	Alternatively, between the setting and proposal No. 3, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:20 S [[2010-2011]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-22.ana.ud2483e3725	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
