ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e35	The representative of the Svein Fleet will present a proposal for a representative. If there could be peace in the hall, we'll hear what the Fleet is going to propose.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e40	I can talk loudly. On behalf of the representatives of Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, Frank Bakke-Jensen, Henning Warloe and myself, I am delighted to promote representative proposals on the tool for business development and innovation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e47	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e63	Shipborne freight transport is the most energy efficient mode of transport. Maritime transport reduces road congestion, reduces the risk of accidents and also reduces noise pollution. One of the most important keys to succeed in the goal of increasing the share of goods going by sea is to move the goods as seamlessly as possible, between ship, track and car. Ports are hubs and are central to the success of short sea shipping. Short sea shipping is an area in which Norway can make important contributions into the EU Community. When Norway has logistical challenges, it is also obvious that the EU system has it, only to a much greater extent. The capacity for land transport in the EU has been decommissioned and is planned to bring more of the transport onto the ice, either as coastal or canal traffic across Europe. With the correct and dynamic development of Norway, Norwegian short sea shipping can thus become a natural and strategically important competence within the EU Community. In order for this environmentally positive mode of transport to have the best possible conditions of competition, good and competitive framework conditions are also necessary. This is the responsibility of the Minister for Fisheries. There are a number of measures that together will contribute to enhancing the competitiveness of maritime transport. The different elements will help to increase profitability to a different extent and thus also provide better opportunities for fleet renewal and upgrade, and provide a better picture of the contribution of short sea shipping to Norway. The competitiveness of maritime transport depends heavily on State charges. The infrastructure of maritime transport is largely financed by users, and for this year, 2011, it is worth nearly 640 million. kr in the fees and charges for the Coastal Works. Of this, approx. One and a half billion, 500 million. kr, to the unloading service. The rest goes to the traffic hubs, lighthouses and brands. In addition, port and environmental taxes. It is essential for the competitiveness of maritime transport to reduce the overall tax burden, with a particular focus on the state level of taxation. This will be one of the key elements in strengthening the competitiveness of maritime transport by land transport. It is good that the industry's share of coastal fees has been reduced, and it is wise to remove it. There is also a potential for more efficient use of traffic centres through, for example: to make greater use of remote unloading in cases where it is appropriate. There is reason to question the safety charge that finances the traffic centres if this task is to be user-funded in the future. In any case, that service must be performed more effectively than today. An alternative can be co-location with one traffic centre and with today’s technology it can be fully feasible. Not that I'm going to talk about one traffic centre, but we have more traffic centres, and the question is, in 2011, using today's technology, you can imagine a different organisation and a greater degree of efficiency and thus also quality assurance in this area. There is a need for more holistic thinking in transport policy – both planning and organisation. Effective hubs where maritime, land and rail transport meet are a prerequisite for success. One of the main competitive advantages of maritime transport is the large volumes which can be taken by one ship. The challenge is that the fragmented port structure may not fully benefit from this advantage. If targeted at some ports serving as international ports of entry and exit to the Norwegian coast, long-distance truck traffic will be reduced and the benefits of large volumes on ships will be better counted. Optimisation of possibilities in this area requires a holistic approach to which the Right is concerned. The overall trend is, above all, crucial — and business-critical — in terms of land planning in relation to environmental impacts and other purposes, such as housing and industry. A holistic approach in the transport sector will thus provide significant and visible synergies in Norwegian maritime, land and rail transport, both in the short and long term. I would like to point out that there could be an interaction between environmental and economic synergies. Work is in progress on a national transport plan for the period ahead of us, 2014-2023. An analysis by the Transport Economic Institute shows that it may be possible to transfer more than 25 pst. the number of tonne-kilometres in domestic and international freight transport from road to sea and rail based on what we know today as today's transport offer. To achieve this, concrete measures and strategies are needed. I also hope that the Council of State's response will address how the government will work precisely to achieve a seamlessness and to fulfill what is in the intentions of the government's own Soria Moria strategy. There may also be a need for a review of the unloading system in this context. This is the key to safety along the coast. The need for los has changed over time. In a few years, maritime traffic has undergone major changes in the course of technological and digital development. Monitoring systems, the competence of navigators and on-board navigation systems have improved dramatically. Nevertheless, the scope of the unemployment obligation appears to have occurred little in recent years. It is a crossroads of thought that some of us who run smaller boats have GPS on board and control the information coming through this system, while electronic maps do not seem to be equivalent mandatory for some of the larger ships. I just want to refer to some of the basics we've had in recent months. It may be that the unloading service can appear to be a low-efficiency and very expensive service, without safety at the heart of regulatory design. There is reason to question whether the unloading service in 2011 should have a different development from that which has been so far, and that it should not be self-interest in the unloading system, but the need for security for all those travelling on the sea, and for all those engaged in business activities along our coast, which should be decisive for how we organise the unloading service as well as for having other newcomers' electronic solutions. Thus, the challenges of the unloading service are also largely linked to the dimensioning of the service and modernisation. It's the prevention safety that gives a countdown. It is the competence to carry ships safely in the flight crew that is essential. Navigators on ships frequenting an area will be able to acquire, over a relatively short period of time, good navigational knowledge and be able to operate a safe navigational system, but due to the unloading system, ships with so-called polluting or dangerous cargo, or having a certain length, will be required to operate independently. In individual areas, additional resources may be needed on the bridge for traffic management or because of the inconspicuous waters, but it may also be ensured by the use of their own navigational officers in the form of additional crews on the bridge. It is a natural development that ships serving the Norwegian coast become larger — especially those that go from the continent to Norwegian ports. It is ships that have a better environmental profile and have several systems that can enter when a situation arises. Due to the large costs incurred when the obligation to provide services occurs and the use of own navigators with evidence of fairway, these ships will have significantly reduced their competitive position and will probably not be able to operate on the Norwegian coast. Then we have a system that favors the smaller and older ships with a completely different environmental profile. It is neither good safety nor environmental policy. The challenge to the Council of State is that such a system is today, it is more profitable for business to carry goods by road than to carry goods by sea. The second challenge lies in this seamless design in which we have coordinated transport so that businesses can easily transport their goods from car to train and hence to sea and easily get back to the continent and the equivalent. So I hope that the Council of State can clearly indicate the direction of how the government intends to fulfill its intentions in the government statement of the next national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e101	The interpellant addresses an important issue in the field of transport. The overall objective of the government’s transport policy is to provide an efficient, accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport system. The government will contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of industry through a long-term policy for better accessibility, reduced distance costs and rational competition between modes of transport. Demand for transport will increase sharply over the years to come. At the same time, the analyses show that there will be greater growth on the road than at sea. This is a challenge, both in terms of road safety, road congestion and greenhouse gas emissions. The government therefore wants a maximum share of the growth to take place on track and sea. In order to achieve this, it is necessary to exploit the different advantages of transport and to facilitate combined transport solutions. The government’s transport policy is presented in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. The plan shows that the government is betting on transportation. The financial framework has increased by 100 billion. kr compared to the previous planning period and the annual framework for the maritime transport area has increased by 77 pst. It represents an annual increase in the Coastal Agency budget of about 470 million. kr. With such a framework, we will both strengthen investments and the maintenance of the maritime route and reduce the level of fees and charges. This has been followed up by the government's draft budget for both 2010 and 2011. For Norwegian business, transport costs are a challenge, and if we are to have an increase in maritime transport, it must be competitive with road transport. The government takes this seriously, and we are doing well to ease the charging and charging burden. The annual port security fee has been removed. In addition, the coastal charge has been reduced from 34 pst. until 20 pst. Overall, these charges are reduced by about 55 million. kr in the last two years. A further reduction must be followed up in the next budgets. In parallel with reducing the charging and charging burden, we have also reviewed the pilot service with a view to improving its efficiency, without jeopardising safety at sea. Proposals for changes to both the rules on the discharge of obligations and the unloading charges were at the hearing in spring and summer 2010, and new regulations on the liability and the charging of unloading came into force from the turn of the year. The changes in the obligation of unloading mean that between 10 pst. and 15 pst. by the traffic previously unincorporated will now be exempted from the obligation to provide services. Furthermore, the faire certificate scheme is simplified. From emphasising formal requirements for seagoing service and sailing on the Norwegian coast, one has now passed to actual testing of the navigator's competence. The overall cost reduction associated with these changes has been estimated at about Twenty-nine million. kr. Because the ransom service is 100 pst. user-funded, the obligation to pay for shipping will be reduced accordingly. The cost reduction is expected to be even greater once shipping has adapted to the new fairway ticketing scheme. Then I also hear about shipping companies that experience cost increases. Therefore, it is important to continue to review the unloading service. In order to provide an efficient, accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport system, we rely on an appropriate division of labour between modes of transport. The challenge will be to establish combined transport chains with efficient transhipment between modes of transport. The government will therefore also focus in the next national transport plan on concrete measures that will provide effective ports and integrate maritime transport into the logistics chain door-to-door. In order to improve the interaction between modes of transport, we have defined 31 ports in the national transport plan as main ports. These ports are important connecting points between maritime and land transport and will be prioritised when there is a need to improve infrastructure and interconnection between modes of transport. Societal developments have called for modern and dynamic port and water legislation, and from 1 January 2010, we were given a new port and water law. The new law, together with its regulations, constitutes an important part of the legal framework for maritime transport. The new law is also an important tool to enhance maritime safety and maritime accessibility, and in particular to enable ports to develop as an efficient logistics hub. The Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is well underway with the next transport plan, which will apply for the period 2014-2023. The cancellation notice is scheduled to be submitted to Stortinget in the spring of 2013. The coastal works, the State Road Administration, the Railway Agency and the Avinor will draw up their proposal for priorities for resources and investment projects, the so-called plan proposal until February next year. The plan of the establishment is drawn up on the basis of professional reports and investigations, and the work is guided by guidelines from those departments. The plan proposal of the etates and Avinor is drawn up within sectoral planning economic frameworks, which are based on the framework applicable for the period 2014 to 2019 in the current national transport plan. For the Coastal Plant, this provides an annual framework of 1,209 million. 2011-kronor. In addition, the agencies shall carry out so-called marginal considerations, i.e.: make proposals for prioritisation of actions where more or less resources are made available. These additional assessments will be important both for the government to determine the final level of the financial framework and for the allocation of funds within and between the major sectors of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. Goods in the cold and the competitiveness of maritime transport are areas I want to prioritise in the work of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023. At the same time, we need to recognise that there are a number of other actors who are also involved and who must help to make the seaway even more attractive. I am thinking of ports, municipalities, carriers, shipping companies and not least owners of goods. I'm convinced that it's possible to think new, and for business, a new approach to transport can quickly prove to have positive effects. The government will continue to look at the framework conditions for maritime transport in the context of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, for more maritime transport will contribute positively to social development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e139	I listened with interest to the Council's presentation. I think there are many good paces for the future and also an emphasis on how complex, difficult and demanding it is to achieve a comprehensive planning in Norwegian transport at large. I also hear that the government has had a will here for almost six years – in two years there are two periods of collapse and government. Although there is an increase in the budget, the forecasts in the report presented on 1 February this year — a technical report in connection with the National Transport Plan for the next period, handed over to the Ministry of Transport for further policy treatment — show that land transport will increase dramatically, while sea and track have little growth. It will further increase the share of road transport at the expense of maritime transport. It is good to use more resources and have a desire for more coordinated planning, but development is not going the way we want to get seamless and to think about the environment, and promote business. In Sweden, transport, communication and transport have been organised in a common transport establishment. The Council of State itself presented all those who have a challenge and who need to cooperate and who can have new opportunities by thinking new and different – the shipping companies, the municipalities, the business community, the ports and all other transport operators. It could then be interesting to hear the Council of State’s assessment of a committed, comprehensive coordination of transport in general in Norway, because it is about social development. These are, of course, the means by which industry should have good growth conditions in Norway, to ensure coordinated planning in its entirety. So I'll just briefly point out that there are a number of other areas that help to strengthen maritime transport more indirectly, like this, that Norway is going to be an attractive maritime host country, and that we are going to try to get more Norwegian flagged ships. It is strange and paradoxical that the only international ship register that does not allow Norwegian ships to carry cargoes between Norwegian ports is the Norwegian International Ship Register.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e148	The inter-pellant calls for coordinated planning and holistic thinking. That is exactly what we are doing in the preparation of the national transport plan. It is precisely the tool and the document that takes care of the whole thing. That is why I and the Minister for Transport agree that we need a close dialogue, because it is in the transition between the different modes of transport that are part of the challenges. It is now once that the goods to be transported are rarely produced at a port, and they rarely have a port as an end station. So getting coordination in and around the ports, both track and other modes of transport across the boat, is absolutely vital to success. For the costs are one side of it, and we still need to have a big focus on that, and to reduce the cost of the boat transport, but at the same time it is that if you look at the costs in terms of kroner and ears, it is often more reasonable to send goods by boat than by car. But then it's probably the time that costs, it just takes too long by boat. Here comes the efficiency of the ports. So that's the way I said in my post, that we can make great plans and have great ambitions, which we also fulfill. I just want to remind you that this government is the first and only one that has actually met the national transport plan ever. Many great national transport plans have been written over time, but this has been fulfilled. But the plan is one thing – in fact, the most important thing is that the actors who are going to transport the goods, whether they are owners of goods, shipping companies, ports or others, are in and out of the picture. That's the background for me inviting all the actors to a meeting with me. I travel a lot around and talk to those who run the ports, with those who run the shipping company and with the merchants to get good insights and real ideas about how we can solve this challenge. Because there is no doubt that the expected development of transport presents us with challenges. I don't have to repeat all the good arguments because we have to succeed in getting more goods on the keel. It is a matter that I work intensively on and will give priority to working on the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e157	Interpellant wants to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport in the transport of goods. It's a wish that I fully share. The Government, in its Soria Moria II Declaration, has also stressed the need to stimulate the development of freight transport by sea, and this helps to create the background for the government to its holistic transport policy. Maritime transport is a natural and important part of the national transport plan, and NTP is one of the most important tools we have to achieve the objectives of the transport sector. In a press release submitted earlier this year by Avinor, the Railway Agency, the Coastal Administration and the State Road Administration, transport networks present their sectoral core network services in connection with the National Transport Plan for 2014-2023. This is an important basis for further work on the revision of the national transport plan. In addition to the more sector-specific formulations, common target formulations are also presented. Not surprisingly, there is a major challenge in getting traffic from car to public transport in our metropolitan areas. In addition, it is emphasised that businesses and district dwellers depend entirely on a functioning transport system in order to create the most robust housing and labour markets possible, and that, therefore, more needs to be organised in order to transfer more goods from road to sea and rail. I see this as promising to see the modes of transport better in context, and further work on the transport plan – where Stortinget will also be involved – will really be able to take action to achieve the goal of more goods from road to sea. When the objective is to increase the competitiveness of maritime transport, it is important to define what are the competing modes of transport – not so much research is needed to establish that it is largely our roads and trucks. This is why it is very crucial that a move forward in the transport planning process is really able to balance this in a way where the road system is also more involved in making maritime transport and our ports more attractive. Both the interpellant and the state councils were in on that very element. The current NTP is also a good framework for improving the competitiveness of maritime transport, and I cannot agree with the interpellant when it is said: ‘The government is on the wrong track in getting more goods at sea’. It is not the case that it is the fees alone that determine whether maritime transport is profitable. Nevertheless, in recent years, several important measures have been taken in relation to the reduction of charges before this field – reductions that, in some cases, amount to approximately 55 million. kr. In addition, the cost of the loading service is reduced by about 30 million. kr, and we have been given regulatory simplifications in addition to an additional effort to repair ports and fairways. When it comes to maritime transport, the annual budget for this area has increased by 77 pst. compare with the previous planning period. It equals an annual increase in the Coastal Agency’s budget of about 470 million. kr. All of this is good. Maritime transport is increasing the amount of goods, but at the same time it is increasing the amount of goods on the road. This is why it is so important that the forthcoming budgets also follow up with measures under this initiative that the government has had in recent years, because there is a great potential here, not only for getting more goods at sea, but also for reducing climate change emissions and getting more environmentally friendly transport. 60 pst. of the carriage of goods by sea. The advantage of maritime transport is to be able to take large quantities of goods over long distances. The interpellant claims: ‘The government’s maritime transport policy has failed. The government and the minister play together with all the actors involved in the industry, just to gather and coordinate efforts, to give the desired results.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e180	Making maritime transport more profitable is important. I recall that on 14 April of this year, Stortinget discussed the proposal for a representative of the Progress Party, Document 8:53 S for 2010–2011, to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport in Norway. I refer to the setting in that case. The Progress Party was endorsed by the Right and Christian People's Party to report on measures to strengthen the competitiveness of maritime transport in the national transport of persons and goods. The parties to the Government voted against. It is a pity that the red-green government, which in its speeches celebrates maritime transport as environmentally friendly, correct and important, does not find it important enough for its own notice to the Stortinget. The size is getting a lot of messages about important things. It provides a basis for wide-ranging debate, not least on the instruments involved. Instruments are needed, not just for festivities — instruments that work, are also needed. I recall that a hearing was held on the proposal of the Progress Party on 10 March this year. Representatives from the Norwegian Port Association, LTL, KS Business Port, Norwegian Shipowners' Association and Maritime Forum participated. Afterwards, there was also a recording from the Shipowners' Association. Everyone supported the proposal for a self-declaration. Such a big message will be a strategy paper. It is a paradox that the government last time created a strategy paper for aviation – the transport sector for which this government is least enthusiastic, to put it mildly. It is quite strange that the government will not produce a strategy paper through a major communication on maritime transport, as this government says is so important. I want to point out what representatives of the industry themselves – i.e. the ports, users, transport companies and shipping companies – said in the hearing. They asked for government – or central – control, and they first asked that all transport be grouped together in one department. I also remind you that a report has been prepared from a number of operators related to maritime transport. 20 action points have been submitted. I want to mention cards some of them: The first point to be addressed in the report is that the next national transport plan must contain concrete objectives and strategies for the transfer of goods from road to sea – not just celebrations, but concrete objectives. The second point is that the means of transport must have the same framework as possible for user financing of public infrastructure. A third point is the strengthening of transport planning in the Coastal Plant. The establishment must have greater responsibility and role as national port authority. A fourth point is the desire for a government investment fund, which is set up for the development of efficient and environmentally sound logistics points. This government operates with five so-called designated ports in Norway. One of the points addressed by key maritime transport actors in the consultation process is that port development and activities in ports need to be managed more strongly. There are therefore five designated ports in Norway. These are the ports of Oslo, Kristiansand, Stavanger, Bergen and Tromsø. Here you have to look at the interaction between sea and land. A key prerequisite for the transfer of special freight from land to sea is to get well, quickly and without problems to the central ports. This means that we need to look at the location of the designated ports in these major cities, and that is a matter that both the Minister for Transport and the Minister for Fisheries must look at together. It also illustrates that it becomes more complicated than necessary to deal with two departments when entering the transport sector and trying to find good and coherent solutions. It reinforces the need for us to have a department. It believes that the Progress Party will be crucial, just as the industry itself points to it as essential in order for us to have more goods transferred from land to sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e208	Good transport services are important in general, but for competitive business in particular. There is often talk about how important it is with good framework conditions and safe jobs. At the same time, it is not possible to focus on the frequency of industrial and job vulnerability, related to the lack of safe transport years and good logistics. In order to succeed in getting realism in more goods from road to sea, as the interpellant takes up, more political action needs to be taken. The right-hand alternative transport plan states that maritime transport ‘should be given good conditions to obtain more goods from road by sea on board ships’. We also want to reduce Norwegian port and water charges if estimates show that reductions can lead to a marked transition of freight from road to sea. I also refer to the interpellant’s statement on the importance of just reducing the overall level of charges. The government claims it has the goal of getting at least 25 pst. of today's heavy goods transport from road to sea and rail. That's good, and it's high time. At the same time, it sounds quite unreal when you see that the same government is training to remove the most important and dangerous bottleneck along the west coast. I'm talking about the demanding State Sea, which in stormy periods stops most of the ship's traffic, with the huge costs it brings for both seafarers, business and society in general. A ship's tunnel past the State Sea will provide increased safety for seafarers, with a reduced risk of death and personal injury and minor pollution, while at the same time reducing traffic accidents caused today by large wagon trains on bad roads. I support the representative, Mr Lundtigen, who from this chair last night said that the City Tunnel would be an investment measure for the Community. This cannot be said often enough. I also refer to the Council of State, which just said from this chair that maritime transport takes longer. That's what the challenge is. The realization of the marine tunnel will provide safer and faster maritime transport beyond one of the world's most dangerous sea areas. The tunnel will provide easier and safer transport for business and people on both sides of the City Peninsula, while providing for an exciting and more robust residential and working region between Ålesund and Florø. If the government turns the thumb down for the construction of the City Ship Tunnel, the goal is to get 25 pst. more goods from road to rail and sea utopia. It actually just becomes a distant dream without root in reality. This means that the government's declared commitment to getting more goods from road to sea and track will not capture the west coast, which is currently leading in value creation with corresponding exports of its production. Norway is currently in a special position with regard to the possibility of a much larger share of freight traffic crossing the sea. There is also a strong consensus in the political environment about transferring larger parts of the goods transport from road to sea and rail. I therefore hope that the government will prove that it is effective, not only in word, but also in deed. But then the whole coast has to be included. ‘Everybody should join’ is the Workers’ Party slogan, and I hope that I will also be included and used in this context. More and Romesdal and the West Coast do not have the same access to the railway as the rest of the country. Nor do we have the opportunity to use the sea in the same way as the rest of the coastal population, precisely because of the difficult and dangerous seas around town. My appeal to the Council of State will therefore be: Remove the bottleneck in the Stadhavet, and join together the West Coast to a powerful region of residence and work. It will also provide more road-to-sea transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e234	I would like to thank the interpellant for taking up an important area of maritime industry. The right is fully occupied, repeating the interpellant on the interpellant. Although it is relatively long since the Right has been in government, it may be good to remember that they did not follow up on the NTP when they sat at the rudder. It was only a wishful dream, not a priority plan that was followed up with money. This government is delivering on the crown what has been put into the current NTP, and has made it a political, real global priority plan and followed up with money. Government rates on maritime transport. The budgets for 2010 and 2011 clearly show this, where the government has now increased the state allocations for maritime transport actions by nearly 120 million in 2011. kr. And the government has followed up the goal of reducing the level of fees and charges. The government has always been concerned about having a good dialogue with the industry and getting through different points of contact about where the shoe actually prints. It has been crucial to take the different measures we have provided to maritime industries in general. It is – as the inter-pellant also says – not a single solution to trigger the potential of maritime transport, but a whole range of different elements that need to be put in place. And the government has provided a number of measures. I allow myself to mention some of them: we have our own environmental effort under Innovation Norway aimed specifically at short sea shipping. Norway’s Research Council has focused on demanding environmentally friendly maritime operations, especially in the north. There has been a complete removal of the ISPS fee, a reduction in the coastal charge, as mentioned earlier, a review of the entire charging and charging system, where several changes have been made, and a further signal is that several changes can be made that will contribute to cost reductions and more simplifications in the future. It is active to remove international bottlenecks through participation in the IMO. And now, in the revised version, there was a desire from the industry even to make quarterly payments of the annual fee over the current system of advance payments for the whole year. However, there is no doubt that there is more to be addressed, and that the requirements for efficiency improvement, cost reduction and more environmentally friendly solutions need to be looked at continuously – not just by the government, but by all stakeholders, and generally together. It must be competitive to take the sea route versus the motorway. If we are thinking about the environment in the future, it is important to consider how to secure watercraft power from land when they are at berth. Here, Bergen Hafen is a good example of more, both public and private, coming together to put in a power supply box. I am reasonably convinced that more ports should look at such good solutions. You can imagine Geirangerfjorden, who is on the world heritage list, with a magnificent nature: clear water, clear air – until three–four–five cruise boats have lain and sour and gone beyond the day. Then it can look fairly gray, even if it's a fine weather day. It's a challenge you actually have to tackle. We must constantly contribute instruments that build up under research and development of new technologies and fuels that contribute to less greenhouse gas emissions. It is also a challenge that short sea shipping is made up of vessels with an average age of 25 to 30 years. We have to join in and facilitate fleet renewal. On the part of the government, the Council of State has today shown that goods on the keel and the competitiveness of maritime transport are areas that will be prioritised in the work on the NTP in the future. I am also pleased that the Council of State is willing to find good solutions to single challenges. In particular, it has been indicated today that it is important to look at the dialogue with industry in relation to pilot regulations and the potential challenges facing them. The sum of all these measures, and the financial framework, must help all actors to understand what their chart looks like and to enable them to easily manoeuvre from A to B in a safe and efficient way. The sum of these must help to make the choice of freight transport the right course for the sea route. Now I don't know what kind of party the Blackevik representative has been at, but message or not – I believe in a way that the measures need to be delivered individually, and together, there will be a good whole that contributes to this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e266	First of all, thank you to the interpellant, which gives us the opportunity once again to discuss this topic in this room. There is no secret that this about how to get more transport from road to sea has been – and is – a political mantra for very, very many years. I don't have numbers on how many times I've heard state councils and other politicians talk about that we now have to do something, so that we get to twist part of the transport from road to sea. But the problem is that when we discuss these issues in the national transport plan, maritime transport becomes only a very small part of the discussion that comes about in that plan. There is a tendency for this particular part of the national transport plan to be treated very voiced, and the background is, of course, that there is no willingness to take the right measures. We may want to – and would – make these changes, but they will never get in place until we use tools to help, and it is that business itself must be able to benefit from this mode of transport. We can talk about having the salmon on the keel and having it sent down to Europe. But it does not help as long as the transport years that make it possible are there. For salmon, it must be transported and placed on the market in France at a given time on a given day of the week, and it cannot be waited and risk not appearing. If an hour is delayed, the race is over for that auction. Furthermore, it is quite right that the representative, Mr Sortevik, raises this: we need to see this in its entirety. I just sat here and got from this pulpit an idea of all the amazing things that the government has done about the charging system. So it doesn't help when the total load is equal. We can turn the charges around, we can change the charges, but it doesn't help as long as the level of the charges is the same – whether you call it "loose" fees, "port" fees, "kai" fees or "goods" fees. The interesting thing is the sum that must be paid by the goods manager and the goods owner in order to get the goods to the market on which they are to be supplied. There are a number of measures. We have the five designated ports replacing the former central ports. What do we put in these ports, in addition to the good ideas and the introduction of a new concept in the national transport plan? There's no world thing in this -- if you don't do anything, among other things. with the administration. What about these ports' way of dealing with future ships? It's over at the time when it was just a small freighter you were supposed to handle. Today, the heavy container ship, usually with two or three cranes on board, comes to handle this goods. Then we need the fairways up to go in a proper way. Furthermore, the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve has been involved with the City Tunnel. Yes, we've had 17 investigations relating to the City Ship Tunnel. And what was the answer from the government when the 17th came? Yes, we need another one. There must be limits to how many investigations you should have on the same matter before you can choose to make a decision. This shows that you don't want to make a decision right now. And that's very regrettable, because there's just an opportunity for short-haul shipping, an opportunity to get better transport between ports in a given area, so that the goods can actually get to receivers unharmed. Because in the winter half especially when you're going to go around town, and when you get a hit on the boat there, you actually feel that goods could be damaged between the ports. I hope we get our own port message, which is just about sea transport, so that we get a complete review of the instrument. One thing is for the representative Else-May Botten to have, in connection with the fact that these vessels are now getting so old. And they're not able to renew themselves, because this would be a small family company. We have a way to go, and unfortunately, the government has not delivered.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e287	There are many who have made very many positive proposals during the debate here to achieve what everyone agrees on – that we should get more across from road to sea and track, with the emphasis at sea in today's debate. There is no lack of consensus, but there is a lack of action to make it happen. The representative Else-May Botten said that shipping by sea must be competitive. Yeah, that's right. Without it becoming competitive, no one will do it, unless it is by law imposed by the state, and I think that's not feasible. Why doesn't that happen, then, when we all want to and we're all kind of trying to make it right? Well, I think the Council of State was in on several of the important things here. It's going to be small steps, if we're going to call it a step. I'll call it the little step at least, because there's no change. What happens all the time is that road traffic is increasing. Road freight traffic is increasing significantly, but it does not increase at sea. What's going on? Well, it's a holistic approach and what Sortevik referred to from the sample that came up with a number of measures, including: The coastal community was involved in this with the need to have concrete objectives and strategies. You could say that the targets are there if you've decided that you want more over at sea, but you don't have a strategy to achieve it, and that doesn't help. This is where the strong grip must be, I think. It doesn't help with small grips all the way. There are many things that affect this. The Council of State said that there is a very close dialogue between the Minister of Transport and her. Yeah, I think so, but I don't think it's good enough. Twice the Minister of Transport has been in Trøndelag to be briefed on a logistical node. I should have liked to have seen that the Minister of Fisheries and Coast had been with her to focus on the importance of getting this at sea. Because when the Railway Agency investigates it, and, among other things, come up with one of the proposals, an alternative, and place a logistical node to take responsibility for all the pathways we have – trying to put it in a sand roof up in Melhus, someone should have reacted quite immediately and said that this is not a mandate to have a logistics node. 'Cause there's no boat coming. There will never be any boat to Melhus – up there. Here, I think, it has to be seized to rule. The environment is one of the key factors linked to this. Yesterday there was an investigation from the European Union that, among other things, recommended increasing the diesel tax, getting more toll roads, etc. etc. I have no faith that this is the big effect. As long as we don't manage to get anything over at sea, and despite the fact that the diesel is getting two dollars more expensive for the gallon, it gets transported on the roads -- now the Council of State said it's not just the price, but there's probably a powerful factor here. Then I have to say that the unloading service needs to do something about it. In my time as responsible for air surveillance in Air Force, we centralised it. We centralized it to Sørreisa and not to Oslo. I believe that was an important step. Everything could certainly be controlled throughout the country. Why do you have to be on board a ship when you know that you have GPS and transmissions of the image? It must be possible to sit in a maritime transport centre and provide the necessary assistance for a ship, also, at a long, long, much lower cost. But it means that there must be agreement with the losers, and if the losers are to decide, it will not be that way. Then the state councils were in on the time aspect. Yeah, that's clearly an important piece. If you're going to keep transporting the goods to Alnabru, reloading them and bringing them on in Norway, then this is not going, we know very well. It's taken care of for that as well. It is possible to pack containers that will carry the entire contents to Trondheim, to Tromsø, to Bergen, and there it is done a good job. But I think the coordination of the Councils also up against the owners of the goods and up against the charterers is one of the most important things. What is most important are concrete objectives and strategies – strategies for achieving the goal. Good luck!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e307	More goods must pass from road to rail and sea. That is the broad political agreement. It's been a goal as long as I can remember, both politically and otherwise. And the discussion of whether we get it done, and what has to be done to get it done, is constantly recurring -- fortunately for that, because that means that commitment and will are there to achieve the goals of getting more goods across from road to rail and sea. That also means that we have a long way to go before we can say that we're in the port of reaching the targets. The question remains whether we have the right tools. But it's like there's a lot more to this than the fees that play into this context. There are many other actors who have to move in the same direction as the state. It's not just the state that's the actor. Ports, not least those who own ports, which are often municipalities, are important players and they have a great responsibility. And the shipping companies, the collectors and not least the goods owners have a great responsibility. All of these actors have to move in the same direction in order to aim to get more goods across from road to rail and sea. So it's also that all modes of transport have to be seen in the context. The Progress Party will have its own notification on maritime transport, and the Progress Party will reduce the fees. The problem is that the Progress Party will also reduce the fees on the road. The competition between sea and road will not change. That's why our answer is the National Transport Plan. All modes of transport have to be seen in the context, measures have to be seen in the context of the same plan and instruments have to be discussed. Changing the means of action changes the competitive position of the sea. Changing the means of action also changes the competitive environment of the road and the sea. So it's right as it's said, that we have to have a seamless system. We need to put a lot more emphasis on that than we've done so far. It has to be organised for combined transport solutions, the infrastructure is very important, and we have to have an effective logistical node. So, as the representative Myraune was in front of me, the process around a new logistical node in Trøndelag is an interesting process, because it will be a testament to whether we are actually able to create infrastructure solutions that meet the objectives we have. The railway works must build a new freight terminal. Trondheim port is to be moved from Trondheim out of Brattøra. Then it is – we have to agree on this, at least initially – that the goal must be that the new logistical node of the Trøndelag must be by the sea. We must get road, track and port connected in an efficient logistics hub at Trondheimsfjorden. Last week, the Railway Agency handed over its concept selection inquiry for the new logistics hub, its freight terminal, to the Minister for Transport. I was with the Minister of Transport in that regard. After a while, the government is going to choose the concept, but I think it's important to send an order, which I actually perceive is from a total staging: this logistical node in Trondelage must be by the sea. I understand that individual municipalities and communities will not have such a large logistical node. It's not sure I would have had if I had lived nearby, either. But sometimes social considerations actually have to go beyond what is local considerations. In this context, we must be willing to put into practice the means of operation contained in the Law on Planning and Building, which is called state regulation, if that is what is needed to achieve a logistical nodal point in Trøndelag located at port. It will be a testament to the success of some means of transporting goods from road to rail and sea, and it will be an important tool at least for Middle Norway in this context. There is a good illustration that there is much more than charges that are important to getting transport across from road to rail and sea.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e324	It has been an interesting debate and nice to hear the representatives of the government parties say how great it is to move goods from road to sea and track. I think maybe the biggest challenge – what you really don't want to discuss properly – is how you've organized the whole setup. Thus, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is responsible for maritime transport, while the Ministry of Transport is responsible for the other modes of transport. So I think you can't get a real, complete thinking about it either. Then I just have to say that I'm a little stated when the representative Bratli says that the discussions are "still recurring", and that's good, because it shows that there is commitment. But that also shows that you actually don't do what business and actors ask us to do. Now you've had a government that's been sitting for six years and running the store. I actually thought that one of the goals of us politicians is actually to do things and take into account the recordings you get, and at least to make sure to follow up what you say in party speeches is important, both for the government parties and to the extent that the whole Storting. For everyone agrees that you want to move more of the goods to maritime transport, and then you have to make sure to give them the opportunities and make sure that you get the framework conditions that allow you to actually move goods from road to sea. After listening to the representative Else-May Botten, I wonder a little, because she was very concerned about how well everything has been, and all that has been done with the framework conditions and not least with the charging system. But then it's good to read what the industry itself said to the Nation just before we discussed the proposal for a representative to get its own message. The National Association of Logistics and Transport considers that ‘the political will to invest in maritime transport so far has shone with its absence’. It is not very long since the industry itself says that they feel that the political will has shone with its absence, and that after taking the grips they took on taxes. The Progress Party is very pleased with the tax reductions that have come, but it is not enough if you think you want to move goods from road to sea. Then you have to do far more and be far more active. Then I would like to remind you that very shortly ago we had a proposal for a representative in this room to build City Ship Tunnel. Unfortunately, we only received support from the Christian People's Party for that proposal, and that is something that the industry has asked us to get in place as quickly as possible. Then I think that in the debate on how many ports we're going to have, how do you prioritize the ports you say you want to focus a lot on, get a little too simple to say that we now have five national ports, and then we have 31 tribal ports. But you're not willing to give priority. What do you give priority to? Which ports should we give priority to? To the government parties, who have been up and said that it is important to get intermodality and to build something, that is to say, to give priority to something: in the border region, there are big plans and desires to put in place one proper port with rail links and a good infrastructure for a new port. But there are government parts the largest brake block to make it happen. Talk to the head of the nutrition committee so that you can know what the government parties are doing to destroy maritime transport and not to strengthen maritime transport. If you really mean something by this, you have to make sure that there's a big hub, which makes you compete with some of the big ones out there. I do not think it is good enough, I am not satisfied that it is Gothenburg which is the largest port in Norway. I think it is important to ensure that Norwegian ports take up competition with Gothenburg, precisely because we believe it is important to have national, large ports, and to ensure that we do what we say in the celebrations, namely to move goods from road to maritime transport. I really hope that the government will strongly consider removing port policy from the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs and putting it in the Ministry of Transport, so that a comprehensive transport and infrastructure policy can be achieved in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e343	Basically, all the posts from the Progress Party are the ones that annoy me the most, because there is a sport in sewing without equal – without a political course at all. One complains at just one point, that port policy is too bad, too little comes over at sea. But then one has its own policy where one has to have more transport on the road. I don't think that's a good idea. The Progress Party's policy is to get more transport on the road. One should get rid of all the charges, one should bring down the price of one and the other, one should get rid of the tolls, so that it becomes the cheapest possible to drive on the road. This means that the government can't stand up because it has no offensive port and maritime transport policy. This is impossible. I believe that is understood by all the progressive party voters, in contrast to their deposit representatives. I would also like to get the inter-pellant, Schou – former government councillor Schou, who did not cut down on the fees when she was in government – to clarify what is in the inter-pellation, namely: ‘The government’s maritime transport policy has gone down.’ After listening to this debate and listening to Schou’s comments, I cannot see that this is true. However, she is now given an opportunity to clarify ‘the Government’s maritime transport policy has failed’. And we're working on the case to get more over at sea. But it's clear that something is not right. You can see this when it applies, for example: Port of Nord-Trøndelag, or what happened in my region, where the municipalities became a few to build a difficult, new port to several billion dollars in Risavika. When the transport takes place there, find out that we do not have a proper way here, and we do not have trains. Obviously, there's something wrong with planning processes when you don't cooperate with the government about this in a proper way. So what the Progress Party is about when it's about organization, I want to be with and discuss, but one is not running when it's about politics in general. Finally, one must not do as the Right-Representative of More and Romsdal do, and make this a matter: if one does not get a designated tunnel, then everything goes wrong with maritime transport. There is an object that is not holding. One must use the Storting for something else just to greet one's own country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e354	I would like to say that the debate has been informative in the sense that there have been common objectives here – in the memory of women, as far back as you can remember – to get more across from road to sea, that we have an objective within an existing national transport plan, but that this should also be an objective for the next national transport plan, and the fact is that the policy that has been pursued over the last six years – and will probably be followed by the next two – will increase land transport. Then you can ask yourself, is it because our roads are so golden, or if it's so very good that you can definitely count on getting the goods to the continent and other places, because the roads, after all, are essentially connected – it's floating, and you know for sure that you can get there. I do not think that land transport is increasing most because one sees a goal that promotes that one can get this on the road to a greater extent. That is what I believe the government has not met the objectives of getting more on the road. So the charges – as one of the most important incentives to reduce the transport of goods by road – are designed to make transport more profitable today. Despite the fact that the government says that a number of measures have been taken, reduced charges – I welcome it – are thus increasing land transport. For operators and industry, it is known – they also report back – that there is no lack of seamlessness, that there is no predictability, that goods have not been moved from one place in the country to another part of the country, so that they can be safely obtained by means of a track and keel. What I miss in the Council of State statement is this whole thing. It's to make visible the consequences of getting goods from the road to the cold and the track – I'm going to be careful with the cold, as it's the responsibility of the Council of State. Avinor has made it clear what consequences it would have for air traffic if we got double tracks, if we got high-speed rail, or if we had several four-field roads built out. Similarly, I expect the Council of State and the Government to make visible the extent to which it can safely be taken from the road and over to the keel, and what relief it will be on the road and what road safety we achieve in that way – and correspondingly over on the road. This scenario statement, this holistic approach in a national transport plan, which we are now in, should have been much more visible, and I expect it at least to come next. That is what challenges governments – a lack of overall planning and organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e363	The interpellant has raised an important issue, and I thank you for a good and interesting debate. And as has been mentioned repeatedly, the expected development of transport gives us challenges. These include road safety, road congestion and greenhouse gas emissions. The government will meet the challenge with measures that help to maximise the growth of freight transport on the road and at sea. Yes, the government is paying for transport, and we have therefore also asked the Coastal Authority and the other departments to draft a plan for rolling out the national transport plan with an economic framework of 10 pst. higher than the average for the first four-year period of the current transport plan. At the same time, the 2010 and 2011 budgets show that the government is following the national transport plan in practical policy. And, as has been said, in the 2011 budget, the government budget for maritime transport measures has increased by nearly 120 million. NOK, and we have – to repeat for the last time – followed up the objective of reducing the level of fees and charges. We will also look at the financing of the services provided by the Coastal Agency in the context of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, while stressing the effectiveness of the Coastal Service Production. I need to replicate a little bit for what was taken up attached to the City Ship Tunnel. I record that the representative Røbekk Nørve accuses the government of «trenching» City Ship Tunnel. It's an old thing that many people know about. In this context, I must remind you that it is only six years since the Right had the Council of State, who also got the name Coastal Minister during that period of government. So in that way, this government is in good company. When the representative Nesvik points out that there have been 17 investigations and that the government wants a new one, it is about all major projects to be quality assured. This too, so what we're doing now, is not a new investigation, but a quality assurance. I am concerned that we are going to get freight transport higher on the agenda in the transport debate. I can assure you that freight transport by sea is an area which the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast will give priority to working on the next transport plan. Then the representative Nesvik is right that there is nothing that has it as busy as a dead fish. The goods shall be transported from door to door. It's a whole bunch of thinking that's going to happen. Therefore, the development of maritime transport is part of the national transport plan and not of a separate, narrower notification.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e384	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e400	There has been a long debate in Norway on the implementation of the third postal directive. Listening to the arguments put forward by those who believe that there should be a refusal to implement the Directive, it may almost seem that by implementing the Directive, postal services in Norway will be destroyed. Then I actually think it's important to bring with me what this really is about. So this is a letter under 50 grams. All other postal services are currently exposed to competition, and it works very well. As far as I have registered at least for the six years I have been sitting on the Stortinget, all the parties agree that even if you implement the third postal directive, you will continue – at least so far – to maintain six days of destruction, and you will ensure that the whole country will receive the mail distributed. You also want to ensure equal prices for postal services. It's important to bring it with you. Another thing I think it is important to bring with me is that in the areas where the Post has been exposed to competition, much better services have actually been provided than before the Post's services were exposed to competition. Now it's pretty much such that you can always trust that the post office will come when it comes. I think many people didn't experience it exactly the same way when the Post was a monopoly company – just as people remember the time it was called Televerket, and you had to wait several months to get a phone in. So today, it doesn't take many ‘small ones’ until you have installed the phone, if you ask for it, whether it's a mobile phone, which you get in a few minutes, or you have to install a new phone at home, which also goes very fast. At the time, too, there was great concern about the consequences for users, when the Telecom was transformed into a company that competes in the same way as everyone else and is an enterprise that no longer has a monopoly service. So is the Post. They're actually some of the best in the class to deliver mail over 50 grams or letters or packages. They compete very well with everyone else. That's what this is all about. It is also important to have a customer perspective, that customers get the best possible offer. I don't think anyone wants to go back to the time when you had a post office that was open just from the clock. 9 a.m. to 9 a.m. Six o'clock, or maybe four o'clock. 16.30 some places, and that closed early on Saturday. Now a lot of people can pick up their mail or packages for maybe both at noon. 22 and 23 in the evening, which a few years ago was just a thought that I think many would never have thought would happen – it is a revolution that has happened. I also think it is important to bear in mind that the management of the post office, i.e. those who run the company and believe that they have a company that is both mature and ready to meet the competition, almost immediately after the EU decided to implement the third postal directive, they said they were ready to meet the competition. They wanted the State to implement the Directive as quickly as possible, so that they were ready when all EU countries were to implement it in 2011. I am also aware that a number of countries – I believe it is 11 countries – have been postponed until 2013 to implement the Postal Directive. Some of the reasons may be that some new countries have come along, but there are also countries that have had some challenges with some of them. I think it is important to note that the Post Norway has also wanted to compete outside, but after 2011, some countries, if they want to, may refuse to participate in and compete in these countries if Norway exercises the right to reserve or choose to postpone implementation. I think it's stupid, because I think the Post has a lot of very good employees and a good management who are actually busy getting to be in and compete, and who think they're actually great at being able to compete with anyone else who might think of competing in Norway. We know that for a long time the government parties SV and the Central Party have been very critical of the implementation of the directive, but at the National Assembly of the Workers' Party recently a majority, against the wishes of the management, decided to refuse to implement the directive – that is, of course, despite strong opposition from the management, which I experience is life-saving as to what a no to a directive could mean for the EEA Agreement. I find it interesting that yesterday in Stortinget the Foreign Minister spoke a lot about the process and process, but he was very little clear about what the consequences could be for Norway by saying no to the implementation of the Postal Directive. But in today's Political Quarter, I think there was some new and eye-catching information from the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because he said that now you're going to be in the process. After all, the process is not new – as he said many times yesterday, too – and now we need to discuss the directive with the EU, which could lead to Norway being able to implement the directive after a process. It may be interesting to know what the Council of State thinks about the Minister of Foreign Affairs' opinion in Political Quarter today. The whole point of the interpellation is to know what the Council of State has done to find out what the consequences of saying no to the Postal Directive can be for Norway. I record that some people believe that there may be consequences for Telecommunications Norway, and I assume that the Council of State and the SV and the Senterpartiet have assessed the possible consequences for Norway. For me, it's all about knowing that it's important to know. Since the Council of State has been against it all along, I also assume that it has looked at the possible consequences. As regards the Data Storage Directive, which is so important to us, I and the Progress Party have been clear that because it might have consequences to say no to the Data Storage Directive, one has been willing to assess it – just as I assume that the government has done in this matter. I know that there are many in this room who really wanted to vote against the Data Storage Directive, because they are very critical of it. However, for fear of what the EU can think of, it was decided to vote in favour of the implementation of the Data Storage Directive. I think many of them may feel a little tricked now, because they end up implementing a directive that means something to a company, versus the privacy of all residents in Norway. And that matter the government chose to deal with this one, with a company and the postal services, while the privacy of all residents in Norway was not chosen to be taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e423	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government states that the postal services are important for maintaining settlement and business throughout the country. We announce that through concession, we will maintain the societal tasks of the Post Norway. We want to maintain an equivalent offer of postal services throughout the country at an equal price and maintain the unit portfolio. We also report that we would postpone the implementation of the EU's third postal directive, acquire knowledge and obtain consequences from the possible implementation of the directive. The government has received five awards. For the first time, the impact on all parts of society of liberalisation, a report and an additional report are taken into account by social and business research. Then there's an outsourcing of consequences for government purchases of unprofitable mail services from Oslo Economics. Furthermore, there is an outsourcing of the consequences of exercising the right of reservation by Kluge Lawyer, and so on, of effects on pay and working conditions in countries that have liberalised the postal market, from Copenhagen Economics. These figures have shown that full liberalisation of the postal market in Norway will require increased government budget promises to maintain today’s supply. The distributions have also shown that the introduction of the Directive will put pressure on the system of unit-sports and that the pay and working conditions of those added to the Post will be put under pressure. Among other things, based on these statements, the government now wants to use the right of reservation. Hoksrud's question is three-thirds. For the first time, he asks what a veto against the Postal Directive would have to say for the Post's business. Secondly, he asks about possible effects on telecommunications, and thirdly he asks about effects on the whole EEA Agreement. Finally, I would like to show that the Foreign Minister informed the Storting about the matter yesterday, and that he went more in detail when it relates to the relationship with the EEA Agreement. Let me first say a few words about the effects of the Post. Norway is a geographically large country with scattered busses. This places great and costly demands on the infrastructure in order for it to function properly. For the government it is a priority task to ensure good quality postal services at reasonable prices throughout the country. The transfer of post six days in a week and one-person sports is a means of achieving this. Part of this social responsibility is so-called unprofitable and is now partly financed through the one-off right of the Post Norway AS and partly above the state budget every year. Increased competition weakens the possibilities for maintaining postal policy objectives. By saying no to the EU’s third postal directive, the government makes it possible to maintain sub-funding from the one-rights business. There are also questions about whether inclusion of the Directive into the EEA Agreement could adversely affect pay and working conditions in the postal sector based on the experience we have observed in some EU countries. Against this background, the government finds serious reasons why Norway is opposed to incorporating its third postal directive into the EEA Agreement. What would a reservation against the Postal Directive have to say for the whole EEA Agreement? The EEA Agreement provides for common legislation in the internal market within the EEA. As a result, new EU legal acts are incorporated into the various Annexes to the EEA Agreement. However, the agreement also gives EFTA and EEA countries the right to reserve themselves against the inclusion of new EU acts. Overall, the government believes that there is a serious argument that Norway is opposed to incorporating its third postal directive. The first thing we want to do is to inform our EFTA partners and the European Union about our attitude. We'll follow the booking procedures as they come out of the agreement. The procedures for dealing with such cases are laid down in Article 102 of the EEA Agreement. This Article regulates a situation where there is disagreement between the contracting parties on whether or not to include new EU legislation in the EEA Agreement. It is the party that wishes to incorporate the acts that decides when to formally initiate an Article 102 procedure. This procedure is initiated by the formal request of one of the parties to the EEA Committee. The EEA Committee then has six months of consultation to find a solution. The Committee shall examine any other possibility for the agreement to work satisfactorily. In the absence of any decision by the EEA Joint Committee and in any other way, the relevant part of the Annex which is directly adopted will be suspended temporarily. This will take place six months after the expiry of the time limit for resolving the matter within the EEA Committee, but in any case not before the implementation of the act in the EU. Several countries have not yet implemented their third postal directive in national law. Some EU countries have been deadlined for implementation until 31 December 2012. How the EU page will assess the implementation of the 102 procedure is therefore difficult to say. The right of reservation has not yet been exercised. There is therefore no basis for comparing experience with that of political, legal and practical application of the right of reservation. It is thus not possible to say for sure what consequences the Norwegian view of the Postal Directive will have for the EEA Agreement in general before negotiations with the EU page have been completed. So I'd like to say more about what a reservation has to say for the Post's business. The unremunerated social part of the postal services is now financed, as has been said, partly by the one-off right of the Post Norway AS and partly by the State budget. A no to the third Postal Directive makes it possible to continue to maintain funding for the single market. In today's situation, where the amount of correspondence falls, it's not the right time for additional pressure on the Post's economy. If an assumption is made that Annex XI on electronic communications, audiovisual services and information society services is set aside, this will cover the first two postal directives. The parties to the agreement will then not be bound to transpose these Directives into national law. Norway and other Norwegian companies will not be able to benefit from the Directives in an EU country, whereas EU companies will not be able to benefit from the Directive in Norway, Iceland or Liechtenstein. The practical consequences will depend on which parties will be listed in the EEA Committee. If the first two postal directives are temporarily repealed, the main part of the EEA Agreement will remain in force. However, Norwegian laws, regulations and administrative provisions transposing these directives into Norwegian law will apply until they are amended. So Norway can still grant companies from EU countries the same rights as before, even if we are not obliged under the EEA Agreement. The EU will also be able to choose to grant companies from EEA and EFTA countries the same rights as before, even if the Directives are suspended and the EU is not obliged to do so under the EEA Agreement. The practical difference would then be that enforcement decisions of the EEA Agreement cannot be used. The item Bring today has the whole Nordic market as its home market. Businesses in Sweden include industrial post and logistics, while one in Denmark only operates with logistics. The main part of Posten Bring's business outside Norway is outside the scope of the Post Directive. The rights in these markets have not been changed, either because the activities fall outside the scope of the Directives or because established enterprises in areas falling within the scope of the Postal Directives are allowed to continue. However, they cannot use the EEA Agreement’s enforcement decisions. Finally, some words about other areas within telecommunications. The EEA/EFTA countries have the right to reserve themselves with new legal acts. The consequence of exercising the right of reservation is that the parts of the relevant annex in question are temporarily set aside. The first and second postal Directives are included in Annex XI to the EEA Agreement on electronic communications, audiovisual services and the information society. When Norway reserves itself against the inclusion of the third Postal Directive, Annex XI is the relevant Annex and that part of the Annex concerned may be disregarded. Annex XI applies to telecommunications services, postal services, data protection and information society services. I have to be allowed to come back to the rest of it in the next article, but let me just say in the end, that being able to receive post six days a week, close to every cage in this country, is a quality of our society as we know it today. So we're going to go on with this value.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e474	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am very pleased that the Council of State says she will come more back to telecommunications, because there I think she was little concrete and little clear on what consequences it could have on the telecommunications market in Norway. There is no disagreement that it is important to maintain six-day mail accommodation. I also said that in my first post. There's been a consensus on this all the way. Also in terms of the unit price, there has been a broad political consensus in the Storting that you want to maintain it. I also think, and hope, that the Council of State could say even a little bit more about the consequences. She referred to what the Foreign Minister said yesterday. I do not think yesterday the Minister for Foreign Affairs was very clear and clear about the consequences it could have with the EU countries. I would very much like the Council of State to be more specific about the impact of a no for implementation on Norway. The Council of State would not respond to her agreement with the Minister of Foreign Affairs that, after a process and a process, one can end up agreeing that a solution has been reached which, because of the process, is chosen to say yes to implementation anyway. I hope that the Council of State can answer if it's one of the alternatives. Is it such that the Central Party and the Council of State have committed themselves to the fact that there is no implementation independent of this, or can the consequences become so great that the Council of State will say yes? I look forward to the debate and the recordings, and then I have the opportunity to come in at the end. It's okay after the last debate, where Langeland got his outcast opinions. Now I might be able to follow up some of the recordings that come into this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e485	Let me first use a few more words on the consequences for other areas of telecommunications. The answer may not be as comprehensive as Hoksrud seems to hope for. Annex XI, which is the starting point, is a comprehensive annex which is divided into four parts: telecommunications services, i.e. electronic communications services, postal services, data protection and information society services. The postpart contains the first two mail directives. We assume from the Norwegian side that it is the postal part of Annex XI that is relevant to the case, and that it is possible that it will be taken side by side. Such a view is closest to the wording of the EEA Agreement and is also the natural understanding from a professional point of view. If the Norwegian view is used, a reservation will not be made for the area of electronic communications, i.e. telecommunications services n.e.c. So to the question of whether I agree with the Foreign Minister in what he said today at Political Quarter. I take the view that the Minister of Foreign Affairs gave yesterday to the Stortinget. I just have to say that it is true that I did not listen to political quarters today, but I have hurt to believe that the Foreign Minister said something different today than he said yesterday. We're both acting on behalf of a common government. I have the professional part that relates to postal and telecommunications. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is the one who formally manages our contact now with both the EEA/EFTA countries and the EU. But let me say that I hear from Hoksrud's posts here that he has a completely different entrance. He minimizes in a way that I have to totally reject when it applies to the consequences of liberalizing the Post Office's services to the Norwegian community even for letters less than 50 g.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e500	First, I must be allowed to thank the interpellant for the opportunity to talk about decisions at the National Labour Party meeting. I am pleased to be part of a majority of governments that are willing to believe something political about our relationship with the EU and EU directives. I think the Minister for Transport gave as good an answer as it is possible at this stage to the questions raised by the representative Hoksrud. This issue was also carefully commented on and explained by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his statement on important EU and EEA issues yesterday. He – and the Minister for Transport today – concluded that there are serious arguments for Norway to oppose the inclusion of the Directive in the EEA Agreement and that he would inform the EEA Council about this in a meeting on the next Monday. The fact that other parties in this Chamber do not believe that there are serious arguments for this view is due to political disagreement. The Right Party and the Progressive Party want full liberalisation of all postal services. It is not a policy of the Labour Party and the government stands for it. There are detailed procedures in the EEA Agreement for the treatment of a reservation. What's interesting here is that in almost 20 years these procedures have never been tested in practice. Norway will follow the procedures set out in the agreement, and I assume that the EU will do the same. And that's what the Foreign Minister was talking about in Political Quarter this morning early. For the Workers' Party and for the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it is not appropriate to include the third Postal Directive in its present form in the EEA Agreement, but, as the agreement states, negotiations should now begin. I am a little surprised that the debate that followed the National Labour Party meeting, which is also expressed in the Chamber through Hoksrud’s contributions, has almost tried to draw a frightful picture of what use of the right to reserve may result from consequences. It is almost assumed that the EU will impose sanctions far beyond what must be regarded as proportionate responses. I believe that the EU is a rational actor and a reasonable contractual partner. If we follow the procedures set out in Article 102 of the EEA Agreement, I have confidence that the EU is also acting in a clean manner. The question of the right of reservation is very much a matter of law and contractual texts, but it is also a matter of policy. The reasons for the Labour Party's position are clearly political. We want equivalent postal services at the same price across the country. Full liberalisation and free competition would not be widespread in Norway. The size of the market for mail in Norway is limited. However, in the very area where the exclusive right of letter goes positive and is involved in financing unprofitable postal services elsewhere in the country, there may be actors who in turn reduce the Post Office's profits. The abolition of exclusive rights may result in a greater increase in the State budget than otherwise. For the Workers' Party, it is not relevant to have to pay more money to balance up for a policy that we do not want. The fact that the right-hand parties have a different view is, to a great extent, okay. If it had been up to the right, postage would already have been completely liberalized. Bondevik II wanted full liberalisation from 2007, against the votes of today's government parties. We reversed that decision when we came into government. When we first attend national meetings, we can also swing into the National Assembly of the Advancement Party. When we saw how those who dealt with employment issues are not hard to understand that the Progress Party is not particularly concerned about pressure on workers' rights, as we have seen in several of the countries that have implemented the Third Postal Directive. Ensuring good pay and working conditions in the Post and other industries is important for the Workers' Party. Then I can't fail to get into the debate that we had just over a month ago, which also the representative Hoksrud was involved in, about the data storage directive. Then there was no way in which the Progress Party fought for the use of the right of reservation. Then it was quite okay for the Progress Party to use the reservation right. It is possible that it would have more consequences for Norway's relationship with the EU to say no to the implementation of the Data Storage Directive than to the third Postal Directive. I am concerned that Norway should have a good relationship with the EU, even though, like most people, I am negative to Norwegian EU membership. The right of reservation shall not be abused, and Norwegian EEA history shows that it has not been – not once. There can be no such thing as inflation in the use of reservations, nor is there any reason to believe. However, the EEA Agreement has an Article 102, which was essential for a Norwegian yes to the EEA and which is important for my position on the EEA. I do not fear the consequences of using the opportunity that lies there, in a policy area that is limited in scope and limited in market potential, but nevertheless very important to ensure an equivalent postal offer at equal price, without costing the country more than it has to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e519	I think this is a rather sad day for Norway. So today we have a real debate in our Parliament on an agreement that has given us great opportunities. Now, for the first time in all these years, what we're doing is we're going to go into a landscape that we don't know exactly where we're going. And those who are standing here saying that the statement from the Foreign Minister yesterday gave us an answer to that can't have followed well. But fortunately, that statement is printed in the representatives' shelves, so here you can go and read again what he said. And it's quite right as it's been said from here: it was process, process, process. In the opinion of the Right, Norway is well served by the adoption of the EU Postal Directive. The Postal Directive will ensure lower prices for Norwegian business. These savings will make business more competitive and will once again benefit consumers. In contrast to the view of many, the Directive ensures the collection and carriage of items at least five days a week at affordable prices. If we want six days, we have the full opportunity. It is regrettable that the European Union's opponents in the Workers' Party and the trade unions have been implemented on the basis of incorrect information on the impact of the Directive. I believe it is serious that the Workers' Party has now said that they want to make use of the right of reservation on such an important part of the EEA Agreement as the free movement of services. We also know that the Post itself wants this directive. It is difficult to predict the consequences of a veto, in addition to the fact that the Post – I say it is likely – will be excluded from markets in the countries that will implement the Directive. This will, of course, contribute to weakening the security of the post office in the long term, not the opposite, as the opponents apparently believe. Nor am I in any doubt that it is in the interest of the Post that we are immediately exposed to the competition that this will entail. You can read that in the excellent annual report that came to this house yesterday, from the Post Office, which thus describes a very vital and potent business in Norway, with 22 billion. kr in turnover and with operating result of SEK 1,6 billion. kr. They define themselves as a Nordic company, with the Nordic as their core area/home market. They have a vision: The post Norway will become the world's most forward-looking postal and logistics group. I don't think it's possible if we say no to the third EU postal directive. I think this is serious for Posten's development. I think it's serious for Posten's customers, because this does not give us the pleasure of greater competition and better services that always happen in the wake of competition. I think it could be serious for Norwegian business. It can be crucial for the fantastic opportunity we have had in all these years, with the free movement of goods and services within the EU. We are a very small country with an exclusive association agreement with the EU, and we have two even smaller countries with us in that cooperation. Thus, the assessments related to the importance of the EU in relation to this agreement were not received yesterday. We have not received them today either. As I assess it, and the Right assesses it, the Postal Directive is a typical competition directive that is several times more serious than the Data Storage Directive, which we debated a while ago. So I find that we have not received an assessment of the consequences today either. You say you don't know, because it hasn't been done before. But at least we should have presented a worst case assessment from a government responsible for such an important matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e536	Every time the veto debate arises in the context of a problematic EU directive, the EEA and EU trailers are most afraid of the EU's reactions. I find it difficult to understand that one has so little confidence that the EU will respect the agreements concluded, while one defends the agreement. In order to ensure that the EEA Agreement does not conflict with the Basic Law, the right of veto was negotiated in 1992. Former Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland assured all skeptics that: ‘We have not negotiated a veto right in order not to use it.’ After 18 years and thousands of legal acts, it is now time to put it into effect. In the case of Norwegian veto, the EU is entitled to penalties. However, such legal penalties may be directed only at the parts of the contract to which the Directive applies. If the interpretation goes so far that the whole agreement is put at risk, yes, those who introduced the agreement to Norway have led the people behind the light, because then the veto is not worth anything. If the EU's reactions were to be as strong as the most bleak predictions suggest, it would be incomprehensible if in the event some would still defend the excellence of the EEA Agreement. It becomes even more strange to highlight any Norwegian membership of the European Union as a dangerous alternative, because with the 1.6 psts of the votes we would have received in Parliament, and the 1 pst - which we would sit on in the Council of Ministers, it is certainly doubtful whether we have changed any of the EU's policies in this area or other areas with the first. The centre party believes that the Post is still part of Norway’s main infrastructure. The post will reach people six days a week and at the same price throughout the country. I can't see that there's any people's demand in Norway to change this. Nor have I seen any political party fighting for change. More liberalisation of postal services in Norway would therefore provide us with another example of the contribution of the EEA Agreement to market management and weakening the rule of law in Norway. Fortunately, we now have a government that dares to contribute to the opposite. That is why I would like to congratulate Norway and wish the Minister for Foreign Affairs a good trip to Brussels.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e555	It is fascinating to hear the representative Hoksrud talk about deregulation and free competition – as one notices that one is almost touched – as opposed to us, who are most concerned with equivalent services and the rights of employees. I would like to pay a visit to the representative Halleraker. In my opinion, it is strange to interfere with the EU's 'yes' and 'no' position in this matter. I'm an EU opponent. I voted in favour of the Data Storage Directive, but I am against the Postal Directive. There are yes-people in the Right who voted against the Data Storage Directive. There are a lot of yes-people in the Labour Party who are opposed to the Postal Directive, and there are several Right-wing rapporteurs who are opposed to the Postal Directive. It is important to realise that here it is actually the substance of the policy that is crucial, and not the EU’s point of view. The Labour Party clearly rejected the third EU Postal Directive at its national meeting. I'm very satisfied with that. Of course, this matter is about formalities and law, but also to a very great extent about politics. It is about postal services being an important infrastructure for housing and employment throughout the country. It is that we want to ensure continued good service and quality of service. It's about equivalent services. In this way, today's postal law, concession and unit portfolio are important. It is about the allocation of costs, so that taxpayers’ money should not be used unnecessarily to purchase unprofitable postal services, while some should shun the cream in the areas of the country where there is a possibility of operating with profits. It's about employees' rights. Experience from other countries shows a pressure on employment and professional rights. It's about keeping and developing one of the world's best postal services. I am pleased that the Norwegian model of equivalency in welfare offers was also made clear in this area. The market cannot and will not solve all societal challenges and needs. Here, of course, there are ideological and political differences between the right- and left-hand sides, and that's all right. The fact that the right-hand side is dissatisfied with the Norwegian model and wants the dismantling and privatisation of our welfare model and our service offering, which is based on equivalence, is an honest matter. Good and equivalent postal services are something that affects most people. In June 2009, the Norwegian Barometer conducted an opinion poll of 64 pst. Norway's population said no to the EU's third postal directive, where 70 pst. The population said no to different postage, where 91 pst. the population still wants six days of distribution per week. Perhaps the representative Hoksrud and the representative Halleraker would listen more to people most in this matter. The population selection survey from the same agency also shows the same trends. 80 pst. of the asked people said no to large price differences in sending letters, and only 10 pst. wishes to introduce the Directive. Here too, I would like to take a visit to the representatives of Halleraker to Hoksrud and say: there are many of their elected representatives who do not want this directive to be implemented. I feel confident that it is important and right to say clearly that the third EU Postal Directive is not compatible with an equivalent and good postal service throughout the country. I am pleased that we are therefore clear that we cannot go ahead of the directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e572	The Minister for Foreign Affairs gave his half-yearly statement on important EU and EEA issues in the United Kingdom yesterday. He said the following: ‘Overall, the Government considers that there are serious arguments that Norway is opposed to incorporating the Directive into the EEA Agreement.’ That's remarkable. In fact, it is also both search and alarming that it is more important for the Workers' Party to protect the post-monopoly than to protect privacy. It is remarkable that the Workers' Party chooses to challenge the EEA Agreement and the EU on a central principle, namely the free movement of goods, services and labour, while saying yes to the Data Storage Directive, which does not represent a central EU principle. It is also remarkable that the Minister for Foreign Affairs said the following: ‘More than one EU country has not yet implemented the Directive in its own right and eleven Member States may, according to the Directive, postpone its implementation until 31 December 2012.’ Then again, I refer to the extensive debate we had on the Data Storage Directive, where for some reason it was very urgent, despite the fact that not all countries have introduced the Directive, despite the fact that countries that have introduced the Directive operate differently, and despite the fact that the EU itself is carrying out an evaluation of the contested directive. There must be a basis for referring to the Data Storage Directive as a controversial directive also in the EU system. Then I agree with what was said by one of the previous speakers: the content is crucial, not the European Union position. Nevertheless, I believe it is time that the right to reserve was actually exercised. It is time for Norway itself to control more in relation to the EU. The special thing in this matter is that we have now had a fairly short period of time debate on two important EU directives, one on data storage and the other on post-monopoly. I also agree with what was said here earlier, that there is no EU system of terror response. Neither does the Progress Party believe that it does. But we also meant that in the previous case, as Stortinget had a broad and comprehensive discussion on the Data Storage Directive. Our point is that Norway can and should govern itself within the framework of the membership we have achieved in the EU through the EEA Agreement. We should do it using the right of reservation. So it's good that it's being used. However, it is also the case that Norway can manage its own privacy policies independently of the various EU directives, as well as in the case of monopolies. We should do that. It cannot be a surprise to anyone that the Progress Party does not want monopolies. We are happy with all the monopolies we can remove. On the other hand, we are keenly committed to providing good privacy to all citizens of this country. That was also why we wanted to challenge the EU veto system on privacy. There is therefore a fundamental difference between assessment and treatment in the Labour Party and the Advance Party respectively. We'll register it. However, there is a bleak situation for citizens, who get lower postal services because the monopoly is maintained and who are now challenged by privacy through the earlier decision, where privacy is sold on cheap sales.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e604	What is interesting today is that we are actually having a debate on the directives relating to the EEA Agreement. I agree with my good friends in the Progress Party that now, as we were doing with the Data Storage Directive, it illustrates the dilemma. It is clear that if the two parties that are trodden through this in the Storting, had allowed a democratic process to do so, as an permission in the Labour Party in connection with the Postal Directive, the Right could in particular have come to a different decision on data storage than they did. But for the fear of the EU, which controls a very large number of Right-wing people, one chose to avoid using democracy when the Data Storage Directive was invalidated. In a way, there is an illustration of the Great Britain and the EEA Agreement, with undemocratic decisions. I've been thinking over the last 14 years since I got into the Stortinget, that Arne Scheie should occasionally be here to comment. Because when it comes to something from Brussels, the Stortinget has mostly jumped in no way – and with a nice style, without much, actually 20 in style – because one should not interfere with the judges in Brussels. That is why I would like to say to Mr Halleraker that today is really a happy day, because the Storting actually discusses an EU directive, and not just jumps, as the Right wishes, for everything that comes from Brussels. In fact, we now have the possibility of a democratic process on an EU directive. There's something completely new. In this way, I would like to thank the basics of the Workers' Party for their courage to oppose their own leadership. Not least, I would like to thank the spokesperson in Sauda – really in the district – who went up and suggested that someone vote this down, among other things. It's brave. But it shows that it is actually possible to have democratic processes in large parties even if one is brave enough. Nordtun should be aware of this. I hope that in the future we can get a process on the Postal Directive that really reveals it even more than what you've done so far. SV has supported trade, and the people in the districts, in this case, to maintain the settlement in the districts. These include: This is what we're talking about. Should we take from people services, with six days of distribution, or should they have this unique national supply? The party of progress is here on the market liberalist track they can also be on, for they say that this must be organised by the market itself. That is why this directive should actually be introduced, because it would have made a poorer postal service available in the districts. There are few voters, so it means little to the Progress Party. But now we're going to have one round of this. I can only say from SV's page that we will follow closely along with the trades, so that no one in the government is trying to train the veto that is actually the basis for getting multiple numbers. This should follow a line up to a point and a dot. It is not that one should try to train it away, because a fear of the EEA Agreement. So one can say that it is easy for SV to say it, as we are against the EEA Agreement because we believe that the EEA Agreement imposes more market power on us every single day. Yeah, that's right. It's easy for SV to say. But the jam must be one on the yes side and the government must admit that it is actually possible to veto, and then this must be followed up. It's a happy day for Norway. We can now secure construction and a business life throughout the country. We can get quality for all places, associated with six days of mail. We ensure that professional dishes for those added are taken care of, and we can ensure that we avoid social dumping in the post office.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e617	What we're going to follow up to is the EEA Agreement provisions in the situation we seem to be in. The purpose of the EEA Agreement is to harmonise the legislation of Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein with EU legislation so that we can participate in the internal market on a level playing field. It creates legal certainty and predictability for Norwegian enterprises and residents in 30 European countries. In other words, as Norway does not participate in the decision-making process when new directives are adopted in the EU, Article 102 of the EEA Agreement provides for a regulatory adaptation regulation in the event of regulatory changes leading to a serious problem, as it states. In so doing, the parties shall endeavour to find a mutually acceptable solution in order to use the wording of the agreement. If such a solution is not found, all other possibilities for the proper functioning of the agreement should be examined. Finally, if this does not result, the EEA Committee may decide to terminate the part of the agreement, which has also been thoroughly explained by the Council of State. That means a piece is removed from the puzzle. There will be a hole in the agreement, where Norwegian companies and residents lose rights in Europe and vice versa. So this right of reservation is no right to choose which rules we want to follow and which we do not want to follow. If we say no, it has a consequence – our participation in the internal market is restricted. If there are too many such limitations, too many holes, the agreement will eventually be broken. That is why I would warn against the attitude that some people have had in this debate, that it is time to use the right of reservation. If it becomes an independent purpose, we are looking to undermine the EEA Agreement. Article 102 also states that the EEA Committee may decide that the part of the agreement on which the disagreement is concerned is not to be terminated. So the legal formulations are the starting point, but the political assessments will ultimately be decisive. Thus, it is completely impossible for the Council of State — or for some others — to answer today’s questions. They may only be answered after the negotiations in the EEA Committee have been completed and at least one year is ahead, as the reference period is, of course, two times six months. In other words, we are going into a negotiating situation with the EU, and in such a situation, it is not appropriate to wonder what the EU might be able to do if the negotiations do not produce a mutually agreed result. Therefore, I would warn against fulfilling Halleraker's wish for a worst-case scenario. It is not wise to deal with negotiations where we are looking to find a solution that poses the least possible problems for the functioning of the EEA Agreement. Until now, we have managed to adapt to specific Norwegian circumstances or traditions, for example. the wine monopoly issue or the case of a differentiated employer's fee. We have managed to achieve this, because if there is something good for the EU countries, then there are good compromises between the many considerations to be taken care of when 27 countries cooperate. If I am to venture to give advice in these negotiations, then it must be to find out the report that the department has produced on the consequences of implementing the directive. That report's assessments are that the threat to Posten's revenue – because that's the problem when we talk about maintaining services both here and there – from letters is a continued transition to e-mail, and I think we can take SMS as a replacement for postcards. The report does not consider that there will be anyone trying to establish an alternative to Post Norway for shipments below 50 grams, simply because the Post is too good, the market is too small, and sinking, and, not least, the profit is too bad. The post Norway has established CityMail in Stockholm and has lost tens of millions of dollars – a bad example of follow-up. The Directive also opens up the possibility of attaching demanding conditions to the concession to establish postal transport, so that the temptation to paralyse the market in key directions can quickly fade. The point is to make visible to the EU that the gap that can arise in the internal market will hardly be recorded by European industry. So we can end up with a unified solution that doesn't create any problems. Halleraker believed that the Post could be excluded from Europe. I don't think so. If they're good, they get the commissions, but they don't have the protection that's in the law. Finally, I would like to say that the directive itself does not contain any wording preventing twice a day, seven days a week. On the contrary, it must be at least five days. Nor is there anything in the wording that prevents equivalent services, unit portfolios and cross-subsidies. It's the income failure that's the threat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e649	It's been an interesting debate. When I heard the representative Freddy de Ruiter, I thought I'd say something, but it's not parliamentary language, so I'm not going to do it. Let me first make one thing quite clear: there is no problem in ensuring that there are six days spent, there is no problem in ensuring that there is equal price for sending letters under 50 grams – whether you implement or not implement. Then I have recorded that the government parties have now had three different explanations of my challenge. One is the Council of State, which says that yesterday the Minister of Foreign Affairs gave a very thorough account of the matter and the consequences. I have taken prints of what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said yesterday. It was 30 lines, and most of it was really GPP, so just an explanation of what this was all about. There was very little about the consequences of refusing to implement the Directive. Then I have listened to the representative, Gorm Kjernli, who says that it is not dangerous to say no to the directive, that it is quite all right. These are completely new notes from the Workers' Party. I think Svein Roald Hansen had a slightly different approach, a little more negative, and he had good explanations as to why the directive should be implemented. So he spoke warmly for the directive, but is going to vote against it when the Stortinge is going to make its decision. It might be exciting to see what's really going to be the result. At least I'm not any wiser after this debate, because now one government party, the Labour Party, has come up with three different explanations as to what can be the consequences, or not the consequences, or nothing, because that's really what you've been saying. The most important thing, or most interesting thing, here is that every time we have discussed the directive, the Labour Party has stood on that platform and said how terriblely dangerous it is to say no to directives. Often we make unanimous decisions to implement directives. I think it's nice to hear the representative de Ruiter and his warm concern for the employees. I have not registered the same concern regarding part of the directives that we have decided on in this Chamber. The party has welcomed and provided for the implementation of a number of directives, both in relation to tenders, the Transport Code and the Directive around it, in which the Workers' Party clearly assumes different aspects in relation to how employees are to be cared for in different companies or businesses and in relation to the consequences of the directives which it adopts. But the most important thing here is clearly: now you get a directive that applies to some employees in one company, and it is more important than actually to take responsibility for the privacy of the entire population of Norway. That's the conclusion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e662	The President believes that the word ‘process’ had been a more comprehensive word in relation to what the representative Hoksrud thinks about Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre’s presentation yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e665	I would also like to thank you for an interesting debate. Of course, I'd like to leave it to the representative Hoksrud himself to consider what makes him wiser. I think I've done well for the value it is in our society that we can accept post six days a week, almost anywhere we live in this country, and at the same price. There is a quality and a value that the government is now moving on to. So the Right calls such a decision “trist”. On the one hand, the Right Party and the Progress Party seemed ready to implement the Directive, and then they asked me to wonder what the consequences would be. I can then remind you that there are five distributions available for a longer time, as in various ways tell of the consequences. This includes: some of these arrangements show that full liberalisation of the postal market will require increased permissions. The introduction of the Directive will put pressure on the system of unitary sports and pressure on the pay and working conditions of those added to the Post. This includes: These are the moments that the government wants to use the right of reservation. Then I thought that here too is a de minimis – I have to say it – because the right of reservation at this time has not been useful. There is therefore no basis for comparing experience with the political, legal and practical consequences of the use of the right of reservation. It is not possible today to say for sure what consequences the Norwegian view of the Postal Directive will have for the EEA Agreement in general, until negotiations with the EU page have been completed. Then the interpellant can choose its words in relation to the foreign minister's statement, but it's actually a self-reliance point that it's the process we can now do well for, as well as the basis for the government to make the decision that's made in order to enter into such a process. Then there are important qualities in our society that some will push over with a pen stroke, and some of us will still fight for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e674	So the debate is on case No. 2 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-20.ana.ud1894e687	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
