ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e134	The representatives Åse Michaelsen, Svein Gielseth, Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, who have been licensed, have again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e152	The President will propose the election of a President-in-Office of the European Parliament today – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr. – Other proposals are not available, and Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr is unanimously elected president of today’s meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e157	Mr Giltun will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e160	On behalf of Robert Eriksson, Laila Marie Reiertsen and myself, I would like to suggest improving the system of Group 2 cars for people with severe disabilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e165	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e179	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President proposes to give rise to a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e188	The case concerns consent to the conclusion of an agreement with the European Union on the extension of trade in agricultural products under Article 19 of the EEA Agreement. The agreement is of particular importance, so that the consent of the Storting to the conclusion of the agreement is necessary in accordance with the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution. Article 19 of the EEA Agreement requires Norway and the EU to review the trading conditions for agricultural products. Agreements have previously been concluded with effect from 1 July 2003. The government decided in 2008 to start negotiations with the EU on trade in agricultural products. A new agreement was reached on 28 January 2010 with Norway and the European Commission. The Agreement was subsequently approved in the EU by Commission Decision of 27 September 2010 and Council Decision of 8 November 2010. The Agreement shall be submitted to the European Parliament for approval. The Article 19 agreement will not be implemented until the middle of 2011, i.e.: in the current calendar year. It is assumed that new tariff quotas resulting from the agreement will be allocated on a pro rata basis from the date of entry into force until 31 December of this year. There is an overall committee which points to an ever-increasing increase in imports of agricultural products into Norway. While the import value in 2000 was 16.57 billion. kr, the corresponding amount in 2009 amounted to a total of 33,8 billion. kr. Of this, the entire 68 pst came. in 2009 from the EU territory. An overall committee also points out that the outcome of the Article 19 negotiations will lead to an increase in trade in agricultural products between the EU and Norway. Article 19 requires reductions in barriers to trade to be mutually beneficial. This is an important principle that needs to be shown greater respect by Norwegian authorities in the future. It is generally stated in the Norwegian political debate that organised imports from the least developed countries – so-called MUL countries – should be prioritised in the future, rather than tolerations from EU countries. It is also an overall committee which points to the fact that the negotiated agreement would involve an increase in the annual proceeds for the State on an uncertain basis of 120 million. kr. The background for this is that the expected increase in imports far exceeds the expected export potential, inter alia. as a result of Norway’s overall high level of earnings and costs. There is also an overall committee which will point out that the conclusion of the agreement involves the establishment of 13 new import quotas for Norway and the extension of 10 existing import quotas. The Agreement concerns in particular two important and sensitive product areas for Norwegian agriculture by increasing the import quotas for cheese and meat by 2 700 and 3 100 tonnes respectively. Most new allowances are allocated by auction, which is a sound principle. Provision should be made to increase the share of future auctions, as an overall committee is in favour. Auction fees will vary according to the circumstances. The market situation in Norway, the relationship between production and demand, is important. Increased cheese quotas come in a situation where today's regular imports are higher than the duty-free quota. For poultry, uncertainty related to the salmonella situation in EU countries has a bearing on the utilisation of the import quota. It is a joint committee which accedes to the negotiated agreement. There is a majority, all except for the members of the Progress Party and the Right, who indicate that the Government is, and will continue to be, a supporter of Norwegian agricultural policy. The protection of imports is a prerequisite for ensuring the disposal of Norwegian agricultural products and the achievement of fixed prices in the agricultural agreement. The majority show that the government considers that the various international negotiations and other national processes relating to import protection need to be viewed in the context. This concerns both WTO negotiations and negotiations on bilateral agreements within both Article 19 of the EEA Agreement and Protocol 3 and EFTA, as well as our import regime for trade with developing countries. The majority have noticed that government emphasis has been placed on seeing the negotiations in the context of developments in WTO negotiations, which have been ongoing in parallel. The effects of these agreements must be such that they are compatible with the agricultural policy objectives of the government. The last one is central. The protection of imports ensures a national policy and a national price level. It is completely parallel to what the government is doing to ensure the pay and working conditions of employees in Norway. It is therefore absolutely central that one should ensure a business that is significantly based on prices in the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e205	The EU is Norway’s main trading partner. About 80 pst. of total Norwegian exports go to the EU, and about 70 pst. of our imports come from the EU. The EEA Agreement provides Norway with access to the EU internal market and is therefore of major importance for Norwegian business. The Agreement provides for the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital throughout the EEA territory and ensures a level playing field for Norwegian activities as elsewhere in the EU. The EEA Agreement provides for trade in agricultural products within the EEA territory. This is reflected in Article 19 of the EEA Agreement on basic agricultural products and Protocol 3 on processed agricultural products. Article 19 of the EEA Agreement provides that Norway and the EU are to review, at intervals of two years, the conditions governing trade in basic agricultural products with a view to gradual liberalisation. Trade shall be mutually beneficial. The first Article 19 agreement was launched on 1 July 2003. Norway and the EU started in 2006 preparations for new negotiations on expanded trade in agricultural products under Article 19. The government has, on the basis of Soria Moria, awaited the WTO negotiations before the conclusion of the negotiations, but as they have drawn up in time, a new agreement has now been concluded. The agreement has been approved by the Commission and the Council and is submitted to the Stortinget and the EU Parliament for approval before implementation. The government assumes that import protection is, and will continue to be, a supporter of Norwegian agricultural policy. Import protection is a prerequisite for ensuring the disposal of Norwegian agricultural products and the achievement of fixed prices in the agricultural agreement as a basis for satisfactory income development in agriculture. The impact of different import facilitations must therefore be at a level consistent with the government's agricultural policy objectives. The results of the Article 19 negotiations will lead to a certain increase in trade in agricultural products between the EU and Norway. On the part of the government, emphasis has been placed on seeing the negotiations in the context of developments in the WTO negotiations which have been ongoing in parallel and where any WTO agreement would involve a significant market opening to Norway also for sensitive Norwegian agricultural products. In general, Norway has concentrated in the negotiations on concessions for agricultural products where there are already imports at regular customs duties or where the food industry already has an import need. Concessions have also been granted for goods that may contribute to enhancing the diversity of the Norwegian food market. Central elements of the agreement are cheese and meat. For cheese, there is a reciprocal increase in the existing cheese quota, and the whole cheese quota is duty-free. Today, a significant quantity of cheese is also imported into Norway with normal customs duties. This will probably continue to be done despite the increased duty-free quantity of cheese in the agreement. For meat, temporary EU import quotas have been established for bovine, poultry and pigs. Part of the quota increase for meat is justified by emphasising food specialities and consumer considerations. Some new or increased quotas have been established into Norway for the Norwegian food industry. This applies to iceberg lettuce, frozen strawberries, potatoes for snack production, sunflower juice and concentrate, blueberry concentrate and apple juice and concentrate. In addition, a new quota has been opened for early potatoes before the Norwegian season. These allowances cover existing imports without pre-empting Norwegian production. In addition, the agreement involves duty-free or duty-free allowances entering the EU market for, inter alia, vegetable oils, berries, snacks, dog and cat food, tears and Christmas trees. These quotas will realistically allow Norwegian farms to benefit. Up to the EU, a new quota of 400 tonnes raspberries has been opened. In addition, the import period has been extended for sweet cherries and morsels. These changes have occurred after industry involvement, which sees export opportunities here. In addition, Norway and the EU have granted mutual exemption from customs duties on products where there are currently very low customs duties. A total of 186 trade lines or parts of trades have been freed from customs duty. This represents barely 14 pst of all agricultural products in the Norwegian customs tariff. Norway also has limited export opportunities for agricultural products due to high cost levels. The agreement will involve the parties as soon as possible bringing together all previous exchanges of letters between Norway and the EU into a consolidated exchange of letters. The Parties agree to look at the possibilities for enhanced cooperation in the geographical indication of origin of agricultural products and to go through trade in agricultural products about two years after the entry into force of this Agreement. I recommend that Stortinget approve this agreement on extended trade in agricultural products under Article 19 of the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e235	I just wanted to make a brief comment. I believe that the rapporteur was on his way into the agricultural debate at the end of his speech. Our remark is precisely that the agricultural debate belongs in a completely different debate, and the government has now announced that a new agricultural report will come. Since the rapporteur focused on what the majority says, among other things. the protection of imports and such things, are the questions we have not wanted to address in relation to this agreement. It is agreed unanimously, but the agricultural debate is part of another debate. We also note, since the majority of the finance committee is mentioned here, that the majority of the business committee actually agrees with the minority in the financial committee that the agricultural debate belongs here when the new agricultural notification comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e244	The government assumes that the protection of imports is and will continue to be a pillar of Norwegian agricultural policy. Import protection is a prerequisite for ensuring the provision of Norwegian agricultural products, obtaining fixed prices in the agricultural agreement and exploiting the resources available to us for food production. This is also the basis for satisfactory income development in agriculture. The sum of trade agreements and the management of import protection are essential for the possibility of Norwegian food production. Therefore, different international negotiations and other national processes relating to import protection must be considered in the context. This concerns both WTO negotiations and negotiations on bilateral agreements within both the EEA and EFTA, as well as market openings to Norway through our import regime for trade with developing countries. The overall impact of different import facilitations must be at a level consistent with the objectives of agricultural policy. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee, all except the members of the Progress Party and the Right, subscribe to these government assessments. The starting point for Norway in the Article 19 negotiations has been that we continue to have strong import protection. We have therefore first and foremost granted to the European Union tolerances for products where this is beneficial to the Norwegian food industry and where there are already imports at normal customs duties. At the same time, the new agreement opens up slightly more imports of food specialities that will complement the sample of products in the Norwegian daily food market. For some companies, the agreement will involve reduced commodity costs through reduced customs duties, but will not be at the expense of existing Norwegian raw material production. In the course of the negotiations, we have had close contact with agricultural and industrial organisations in order to best assess the impact on the industry of the agreement. The agreement also increases export opportunities for Norwegian agricultural holdings. Norwegian exports of agricultural products are traditionally very modest, but for some goods the agreement provides market opportunities that are realistic for Norwegian enterprises to benefit from. The agreement, in my opinion, is well anchored in the government's agricultural policy, although it may also pose some challenges. The main challenges lie in the increased import quotas for cheese and meat. For cheese, the duty-free quotas between Norway and the EU have been mutually increased to 7 200 tonnes. This means that a greater share of existing imports of cheese from the EU – about 8 000 tonnes – will be duty-free. For meat, increased import quotas have been allocated to Norway of a total of 3100 tonnes. Of these, 2,300 tonnes of temporary quotas for beef, pigmeat and poultry meat will be included in any future WTO quota if the WTO agreement comes into force. This Agreement is, as I said, the other Agreement concluded in accordance with Article 19 of the EEA Agreement. The first agreement was concluded on 1 July 2003. For me, it has been important for the new agreement to be anchored within the framework of Norwegian agricultural policy. At the same time, we have concluded a comprehensive agreement. I expect that this will also be the conclusion when, in retrospect, about two years after the implementation of the agreement, we are going to go through the trade in agricultural products between Norway and the EU. I have noticed that the committee is positive that most new import quotas will be allocated by auction. From my point of view, it's a much better way of distributing than a division based on historical rights, as we have partly for cheese. I have also noticed that the Committee believes that it should be facilitated in the future to increase the share of auctions. Finally, I welcome the fact that a unanimous committee is joining the negotiated agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e265	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3366]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e281	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3367]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e297	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3367]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e313	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that case No. 5 is dealt with together with case No. 6 – and considers it adopted. [[See page 3367]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e342	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions from the main speakers of the parties and three lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e351	Today, we are to adopt the largest simplification measure for Norwegian small businesses ever. We are dealing here with the legal proposition 51 L and Document 8:19 S regarding the statutory auditor's obligation and the retention period for the accounting document. For a hundred years we have had statutory audits of all companies. As of this year, we will exempt the small companies. This is a simplification for business. That's good business policy, and that's good red-green policy. With this proposal, these companies will be able to assess for themselves whether the costs associated with auditing exceed the audited accounts of the own-account company. The audit obligation selection was identified at kgl. Resolution of 11 May 2007 to address, inter alia: exemptions from the audit obligation for small enterprises. The selection presented its evaluation in 2008. The majority argued that the audit obligation should be passed on to all limited liability companies, while a minority went in to exempt the smallest companies. The distribution went on a wide-ranging basis with a deadline of October 2008. The majority stressed the importance of the audit for proper tax accounting and for the prevention and detection of financial crime. For the minority in the selection, it was decisive that audit costs are significant for small enterprises, with a background in EU rules, simplification, the need to reduce administrative costs, especially for smaller enterprises, and a desire to remove cost-requiring rules that do not have a corresponding social benefit effect. When we have chosen to exempt small limited liability companies from auditing obligations, there has been a balance between the importance of tax control and the fight against financial crime on the one hand and the importance of simplification and international development on the other. There are good, factual reasons to carry on the audit obligation, but the simplification of Norwegian small businesses has had a decisive impact. In addition, it has been important to ensure equality between Norwegian limited liability companies and Norwegian registered foreign companies, NUF, in relation to the audit obligations. The proposal exempts limited liability companies which fulfil the following criteria: annual revenue less than 5 million. kr balance sheet total less than 20 million. kr average number of added that do not exceed 10 years In addition, the General Assembly must decide on the use of the audit exemption. 136 086 limited liability companies meet these three criteria. But among these, there are 16,954 parent companies that are not covered by the exemption. In addition, there are 25,688 pure subsidiaries among the 136,086 limited liability companies. The total number of limited liability companies that can opt out of the audit will then be 119 132. In isolation, the legislative proposal does not impose an audit obligation on a subsidiary below the thresholds. It cannot be excluded that the statutory auditor will have to have any work with the subsidiary, but there is no need for a full audit. And it's important for me to make it clear that the government is not ordering the audit of a subsidiary. It is well possible that some companies will keep auditing. In that case, it is voluntary. To Document 8:19 S for 2010–2011 on custody obligations: The Minister of Finance has told him to come back with a bill on this later this spring. But here the question will also be about the control options on one side and simplification/saving for the companies on the other side. This must be weighed against each other, and questions must be asked about whether the savings for businesses are so important that they are more important than control. This is what we're going to come back to. The red-green government sees this as part of its active industrial policy. On Friday she presented a new ownership message. We are hearing a proposal on EDAY, electronic dialogue with employers. The government will continue its good work – for businesses and for good industrial policy. Today, therefore, we are to adopt exemptions from the audit obligation for small companies. I met one who has worked in the accounting and auditing industry since 1976, and he said that this was the biggest simplification measure he had ever experienced. And it's the simplification measures of the times for Norwegian small businesses, which also involve potential savings in the billions class. Enterprises will be able to save between NOK 10 000 and NOK 30000 separately in audit expenditure per year. This is in addition to a number of measures taken by the government to reduce costs and burdens for Norwegian business. I recommend this option from the Financial Committee. I also mention a proposal that is not currently distributed, but which the Secretariat has received.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e397	The representative Gunvor Eldegaard has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e400	Since I was elected to the Stortinget in 2005, re-elected in 2009, and during all these years I have been a member of the Financial Committee, of course I have been in contact with those in Norway who run small businesses, and not least their stakeholder organisations. One of their main battles has been to cancel the audit obligation for those with less than 5 million. kr on the market, which will benefit its founders and small companies. That is why the Progress Party has fully supported this and has made proposals on it in the past. I have even had the pleasure of participating in several political panel debates over the years where this has been the subject, and where the audience and often the organizer of the debate have been the supporters of voluntary audit. But I have also been in debate several times there more or less 99 pst. by the audience, and the organiser of the debate — often bureaucrats — has been headstrong and extremely negative to such a simplification solution. The interesting observation has been that my counter-debateants, like the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left, have almost reproached the proposal of the Progress Party that it should be voluntary for small businesses to have auditors. But this is often the case when the People's Party is promoting proposals. As far as I am concerned, I am very pleased that today we are going to amend the law of auditors and some other laws, including: exemptions from the statutory duty on small limited liability companies. There's going to be a majority of these proposals. The government's reverse operation, which now proposes that the smallest limited liability companies be able to decide for themselves whether it is appropriate for them to have an audit, is fully supported by business associations, such as: NHO, Business Association, Norway’s Authorised Accounting Association – NARF – and Norway’s Bondelag. However, the latter organisation, Norway's Bondelag, and we in the Progress Party believe that responsible companies with less than 5 million. kr on the market, should also be exempted from revision, even if the number of participants exceeds five. In this way, I am somewhat surprised that the Central Party does not support the proposal of the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. This type of company is relatively common in agriculture and forestry, and the centre party in election campaigns tends to be a champion for it. As far as other forms of enterprise are concerned, I miss discussion and proposals on simplification and cost savings in terms of auditing. I'm thinking, for example. on foundations. Often these are foundations aimed at caring for and rehabilitating peaceful buildings. Volunteers may have spent several thousand hours working without charging. The equity of the foundations can be anything from NOK 1 to NOK 100000. In that case, I find it unreasonable that the State should impose these audit obligations. I also think that the same should be considered in terms of ownership alliances, housing law and housing law. Townyards with common courtyards and other common areas are often organised as a pool. Maybe there are shops, a couple of offices and some apartments. Then it is usually not more than NOK 100000 or NOK 200000 in turnover per year. Nevertheless, such a group is required to have an auditor. This means about a year. NOK 15 000 to the accountant and perhaps NOK 15 000 to NOK 20 000 to the accountant. There is a very large extra cost, which leads to even greater common costs for those who live in this townyard or who run shops there. So I have a hope that during this debate the Council of State will announce that he will present a case of voluntary auditing for corporate forms other than limited liability companies. Another disappointment is the counter-declaration that fewer limited liability companies do not audit than was the intention. I am thinking about the parent company in small groups, which should also be exempted from the statutory obligation. That means that the simplification is not as big as the government first gave the impression. Nearly 17 000 parent companies will not discharge their audit obligations even if they are smaller than the limits set. In addition, the auditor will probably have to look at the approx. 26,000 subsidiaries. In this debate, we also have a proposal from the Progress Party on other aspects of the audit obligation. We propose to reduce the retention requirement for accounting material from 10 to 5 years and to propose amendments to adjacent legislation where the provisions affect the retention obligation. In conclusion, I would like to address these proposals and the proposals we are promoting together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e428	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e433	First of all, I want to say that I am very happy that we are so many people in this case. I think it's very important for the companies and the business community that there's such a big deal behind this case. The progress party and we are very few, but the Progress Party wants to go a little further through also releasing parent companies in the group. Of course, this can be discussed. However, the proposition states that ‘there may be a particular need for independent control of reporting to groups’, even if they are below the thresholds. I know that Per Hanstad, of the Board of Auditors, traces that many of these companies now want to merge and get exemptions under the new rules. I just wonder: does the Progress Party see no problem in extending the exemption to also include parent companies in the group?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e440	I have also registered the debate that is taking place via the Auditor's Association, which may be a bit intrusive in this matter. However, the other stakeholder organisations – the NHO, Norway’s Authorised Accounting Association and the Business Association – are completely in disagreement. Of course, I have also been in dialogue with many companies that will be affected by this. But now it's the way that the auditor's work is not directed to detect mishaps and financial crime in the case of the very parent group. So carefully don't go ordinary audit to work, I'll claim. I would like, among other things: refer to the 2009 Ecocrim report, where it was received approximately. 6000 suspicious transaction reports, 97 of which were from auditors and nearly 6,000 from banks and payment intermediation. In addition, accountants often discover such suspicious transactions. So I'm actually not as concerned as the representative of the Workers' Party is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e447	This is a water where there's some cutting in the sea, and where we can risk, if we don't hold our tongue straight in the mouth and proceed carefully, that we go too far. We have received many concerns about this process. But the Progress Party stands out by not taking any of the concerns into account. For example, you want to do this. not that companies are required to notify if they decide not to audit. Nor does it require the Board of Directors to take decisions on the waiver of the audit of the formation of a company. My question as to whether the Progress Party disagrees with the fact that it is worth paying extra attention to companies that decide not to audit, and that there will be an important information for them, in particular for the Skatetaten, when they are going to do a job to ensure that companies behave according to the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e456	I note the approach of the representative of the Socialist Left Party and the suspicion of any company. It is a suspicion that I do not agree with. It has been throughout the debate for all the years we have been discussing this, that one is initially suspicious and believes that all the country's businesses are running with snuff. Actually, I disagree. It also seems that the representative No Marte Thorkildsen has actually not been in a business or knows someone who has a business alone, because then the board, which is often the company owner itself, must operate with double reporting. I don't think that's appropriate. Some of the intention of this bill change that we're doing now is just simplification. When the board has to submit a report on it, it becomes another form that we impose on the companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e463	I notice that the representative Rytman takes rather cheap points in response to a serious question, which is that with this decision we are actually making a trust statement from the Norwegian big business to small companies. It would be quite reasonable, at least in the SV's view, to counterclaim that at least a message should be sent stating that a choice has been made, which is perfectly legitimate since the decision that is taken, but which nevertheless gives the community an opportunity to look at these companies if it is considered necessary. That it should be so horrible, I really can't understand. Another question is the need to get more NUFs home to Norway. I wonder if the representative Rytman can explain to me why the Progress Party has written out of the comment on the NUF, a critical remark related to the NUF companies, which is also not a suspicion of all NUFs, but which is at least a wish that we should have an extra focus on the NUFs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e471	When it comes to the first question, I can just refer to my first answer. The intention of what we are debating today is, of course, simplification. Then we must not impose another form on a company, for the state or the tax administration can find out anyway. It's just to go to the website of the Brønnøsund Registers, and you'll find out if a company has an accountant or not. If I'm going to take a cheap point: in addition to the statistics that I referred to instead, how suspicious tips actually come from, there was an Equator somewhere in Buskerud that was asked in a radio interview about where the best tips on tax evasion came from. Then he said -- that was a funny point, but it's absolutely true -- that nine out of ten of the tips they got about tax evasion were from damn ex-wifes who wanted to tip about tax evasion from the ex-husband's side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e478	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e481	The removal of the audit obligation for small axis companies is a matter the Right has had on its program, on its wish list, for a very long time. The removal of the audit obligation is a significant contributor to making everyday life simpler for thousands of Norwegian small businesses, not least for part of those who have chosen to organise themselves either as a NUF abroad or as an individual enterprise, and is one of several obstacles that make people not allowed to start their own company because there are too many forms and because there are too many start-up costs and operating costs before actually getting revenue. That's why this is a good day for small businesses, and it's good that the government, for once, also does what the Right wants, and that the Right has wanted for a long time. The Auditor Committee, the NHO Committee, proposed this in 2008. It was therefore high time that the matter was brought before Stortinget. Simplification is important for the Right. A simpler Norway with fewer forms is an essential factor in the well-being and further development of entrepreneurs and small businesses, thus creating growth for the whole of Norway. We want to remove the audit obligation for small businesses with less than 5 million. kr in turnover and less than 10 employees, as we do today. Of course, there will be demands on the balance sheet and that the General Assembly and the Governing Board also have a responsibility. We will also continue to support the current struggle to reduce the requirement to share capital for the limited companies. There has been a proposal to reduce it to NOK 30 000. That seems to be a good idea. We have also participated in several proposals today to reduce the requirement for keeping accounting documents. And we see that in the NOU on which this case is based, there are 80 special certification requirements imposed on small businesses, which otherwise the government will also have a new review of now, to make it somewhat easier. For the right, it is also important to have an increased focus on electronic solutions via Altin and other things, as well as to have them. also has the necessary capacity for business. In the past, the right has also made a proposal to introduce a Swedish model regulatory council to make it somewhat more difficult for bureaucracy to come up with good proposals for new rules. We think maybe a rule board would have stopped the famous bathroom proposal for the red-green government, which assumes that you need 20 forms to replace a tile in your bathroom. Enterprises that have had a general meeting before the law is implemented, i.e. reasonably soon, namely, 1st quarter 2011, may need to have a new general meeting in order to avoid an obligation to audit, even if they decide to do so before the law enters into force. We have, in a note, asked the government to take this into account, so that double work is avoided and the intention of the bill is respected, namely that this should be a real simplification. Responsible companies with a turnover of less than 5 million kr is currently exempt from audit obligations, but the obligation occurs if there are more than five owners, or if there are, for example. are different ASs that own the ANS. It is proposed that the NOU should also exempt these from the audit obligation, because they fulfil the intentions of less than 5 million. kr in turnover, and because the balance sheet requirement is – what to say – met, and the corresponding in relation to employees. There is a common form of organisation in agriculture, particularly in forestry, and even the Ministry of Justice has proposed to abolish their audit obligations. It is therefore strange that the Centre Party does not contribute to following up the interests of agriculture on a case that has been raised by both the NOU and which today invites the Centre Party to participate in. What's a little worse for us is that when the Ministry and the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry launched this, this was going to apply to 137 000 companies. Then it comes to the conclusion that by definition, parent companies – even parent companies that have no tasks other than owning shares in another company – do not have any other activity – are subject to an audit obligation. So they get an increased cost. That means that one has 17,000 parent companies, and logically they have at least one subsidiary. So you get a belly pad, as the Right sees it, in relation to how the government does it. 31 pst. fewer enterprises than the government discloses in the proposal are not exempted from the audit obligation. That is not good enough, and that is why the Right is included in proposals that also take care of these. I'm bringing this up with the suggestions that the Right is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e502	These proposals have been addressed in the past and will be dealt with in an ordinary way. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e507	I would like to start by saying that it is obvious that the representative Kambe and Right are very well pleased in the opposition. I really hope that the Right continues to be an opposition party, because they are clearly the most effective when they are in that role. The reason why I say this is, of course, all the proposals and all the formulations relating to change and simplification that they corks had the ability or the will to implement when they actually had access to it. I have a couple of questions to the right. Why such urgency in removing audit obligations also for parent companies, that one cannot wait for evaluation and distribution of, among other things. the relationship with natural persons such as majority owners, group parent companies and any consequences of extension and change in accounting obligations? The second question is that the Right obviously isn't satisfied with the simplification concepts we're doing, so I'm wondering, what are actually the Right's requirements regarding simplification?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e518	It is good to record that the Workers' Party believes that the Right is active in the opposition. Then they'll be happy to see that we're in position, because we've been able to rework an arsenal of good things over the next six years. One of those requested by the representative is the Right-wing Alternatives. Among other things, we have to say that we want more concrete measurement of the reduction of the form field. The EU has said 25 pst. reduction. The Economic and Social Councils have issued a different opinion. But what was the main question was why we've been busy with the parent companies. It's precisely because we mean the intention of this simplification is to exempt all companies that have less than five million. SEK in turnover and less than 10 employees. It was the impression that the government created when this matter was presented, but that has been revealed afterwards as a solid stomach pad for simplification. One third of the simplification has disappeared without a reason.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e525	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e528	I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur for the work. Then, first of all, I would say that this has been a difficult matter. To those who wonder why it has taken time, I can reveal that, among other things. has been because there has been a need to weigh benefits and disadvantages against each other and to look at any remedial measures that needed to be taken here — precisely in the light of the exchange of lines that I had recently with the representative Rytman, and which have its background in warnings that emerged very clearly during the hearings. The facts in this case have been set out in an excellent manner by the representative of Eldegard. The benefits have also been given their legitimate place, not least from the opposition's side, so I feel a slight need to be a little party brake on the whole and will bring out some disadvantages that we also have to be aware of, if we're going to be a serious committee. As Mr Eldegard was also present, remedial action may be necessary. That, I believe, is our duty as the finance committee to be particularly conscious and concerned about. It is not so rare that we have discussions in this Chamber about social dumping, the conditions of employment, tax evasion, economic crime and organised crime. It is clear that some of the warnings we have received in the hearings, and from the majority of the sample who considered exemptions from the audit obligation, were just about this kind of thing that we need to be aware of. I'm not saying this is going to happen. Nor is it meant to be a ‘suspecting’ of all companies, as the representative Rytman tried to make it. However, when warnings are so obvious, both from a sample that has worked seriously on this, and in the consultation round from many different actors – from LO to Ecokrim – it is necessary that we also pay attention to it. In fact, SV is concerned with combating financial crime. Nor did we initially want to remove this audit obligation, precisely in the light of those hearings. But it has been clear – from the very beginning – that we are the only party in Stortinget that has had that attitude. That is why, in the process we have had in the Committee, we have been most concerned to ensure that we do not go too far, but, as far as possible, rely on the secondary recommendation of the Committee on the Court of Auditors – then I am talking about the majority of the Committee on the Court of Auditors – and that we are now taking the time to gain experience with the work being done today, and then provide for a serious evaluation, including opening up any remedial measures, if necessary. We have also been concerned that the control work of tax authorities should be strengthened. In this context, I would like to highlight the possibility that these now have to audit both AS and NUF, i.e. Norwegian registered non-resident enterprises. It's important. It is also important to stress that audit opt-out companies must notify this. Of course, it is because if you are given this declaration of trust, it is also quite reasonable that you should be given a responsibility. Cheap points about destroying almost all the benefits of this measure that are currently being adopted are simply not serious. This is about simplifying the work of the tax authorities, but there is one party that is not particularly concerned about. You can also see that in the alternative state budget of the party, where you cut 645 million. kr in the tax haven. Then there's another important point, and that's that equality between AS and NUF will hopefully lead to fewer companies registering as NUF. If revision is chosen, it must be decided in the General Assembly. It must therefore be said that many companies will probably also choose to revise their accounts. It may also be on the basis of claims from creditors, customers or other business partners. The advantage of the proposal we are adopting today is that the administrative burden on the smallest companies is considerably reduced. Clearly, there is a strong need for business simplification. I would like to highlight the importance of Altin, but also of EDAG, which is now being consulted, and which can contribute to the saving of billions of businesses in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e545	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e548	First of all, I will be allowed to say that it was an interesting post from the representative Thorkildsen – interesting, because after reading the settings, I was unable to find out exactly what SV actually means. But this has now been explained by the representative, that once again the government has not received its will, and that the others in the government are making sure to run over SV. It's actually very positive in this case. The representative also refers to the amazing thing with Altinn. Yeah, people actually tried to search the tax settlement on Altin this day, and what happened then was that everything broke up. So you might have to look at the way things are arranged. The representative keeps saying that the constraints you've imposed are good. I have some questions for the representative Thorkildsen: in the case of non-exemptive parent company, what is the absolute reason for this? So when it comes to reporting not having to review: doesn't Thorkildsen see that it can actually be retrieved from the Brønn Island Health Registers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e557	Firstly, SV does not have the custom of writing special comments. If the Advance Party ever came into government – which I do not believe or hope they do – they will quickly discover that they will not get used to writing special comments either. The last question I really answered. It's about simplifying the work of the Tax Agency. First of all, the issue of parent companies: it has been assessed both by the Audit Board and by the Ministry of Finance, which has come to the conclusion that it is particularly important to ensure that these companies have this obligation, including: due to the need for independent control of the reporting to groups. Then we're going to have an evaluation, and then we're going to see what experience shows in terms of the exemption itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e565	The cord shift has thus been completed – but it is clear that Rytman is asking for a line. It's really very easy to do it on our new computer system, and this data has limited storage. Rytman, please!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e570	That's what I was afraid of! As I mentioned in my post, I am a little surprised why the government is only adding up to a simplification and voluntary revision in the case of ASs. Why don't you do the same in the case of foundations, as I also mentioned in my post, owner's suite, housing law and housing law? To illustrate this, the representative of Thorkildsen understands it better: I expect that many of the voters of SV live in cities and perhaps live in urban gardens – either owner or tenant. There is no doubt that if there is a town hall not so far from here that might have NOK 100000 in circulation, where everyone pays overheads, and where all the section owners, or those who rent a section-owner – all the shops and all the housing owners – see no need to have an audit – they are satisfied with an authorised accountant – why should the State then charge them an audit, if only there is a charge of NOK 100000, or perhaps less, that goes to common costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e577	I want to repeat some of what I said in my main post. The reason why we wanted to limit this to what has been the secondary recommendation of the majority of the Court of Auditors' Committee on Obligations is precisely about the serious and serious objections raised to the proposal itself. There are many good reasons to be in favour of this proposal for business simplification, and we fully understand that. However, it is also important to note the objections raised by very heavy stakeholders in the consultation round when this proposal was being consulted. They came, among others. from the Land Association of the Construction Industry, which fears increased unprofessionalism in the construction industry, which is already heavily influenced by it, from the LO and not least from the judicial authorities. Therefore, there is no reason to hurry about this, but rather take it easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e584	I wonder if, for example: everyone in this room went together and bought a city yard, with each of our sections, and the common costs of some corridors to have electricity, perhaps amounted to NOK 30000 a year: what counter-arguments is the one the representative refers to, which serious industries and stakeholder organisations have been against? Fears Black Trading? Or what does the representative fear? It relates to a turnover of NOK 30000 per year. Do you have an accountant's obligation to do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e589	We don't fear the serious part of the business, we fear the unprofessional part of the business. What I think is sad about the representative Rytman and the party he represents is the lack of emphasis on the unprofessional part. I believe that business would be better served with – e.g. in the debate on social dumping – to be more concerned about how to prevent the unprofessional actors from being given too good conditions at the expense of the serious actors. If we're just going to assume that we're always going to make it as simple as possible, as cheap as possible, and we're going to look at those countries that have done this so easily, especially to prevent more people becoming unprofessional, we're finally at risk of a race to the bottom. That is something we do not want, but I note that the Progress Party is absolutely not afraid.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e596	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e599	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for helping to bring this important matter forward. In the Central Party's programme of action for this process of enlargement, we have an important industrial policy simplification reform. It's called in our program: ‘The central lot will remove the audit obligation for small enterprises.’ A long-term, hard work on the matter has been completed when the government now implements this. The solution means that all limited liability companies that have both less than 5 million. SEK in revenue, less than 20 million. kr in balance sheet total, total equity and liabilities, and the average number of employees carrying out no more than 10 annual works is allowed to opt out of auditing the annual accounts. This means a significant relief in administrative costs for the small limited liability companies. About 140000 limited liability companies will be able to avail themselves of the audit exemption, which is about 68 pst. of all the limited liability companies in Norway. The average audit cost is estimated to be between NOK 10000 and NOK 15000 for these companies. Overall, it could mean between 1.5 and 2.5 billion. kr in savings for the small limited liability companies. While small limited liability companies are exempted from the audit requirement, Norwegian registered non-resident companies, so-called NUFs, will also be subject to audit requirements when the activity exceeds the referenced figures for Norwegian limited liability companies. The matter has been thoroughly discussed among the government parties, where the consideration of tax control and the fight against financial crime on the one hand, and the consideration of simplification and economic saving for companies on the other, have been dilemmas that need to be resolved. Once the audit obligation has been removed, simplification and savings for public limited liability companies are the most weighty. However, with the removal of the audit obligation, the companies are free to adopt at the general meeting if they still wish to engage the auditor, thereby meeting the claims of, for example, creditors. This reform implies an equal treatment of public limited liability companies and NUF companies in terms of auditing, which contributes to a weakening of the interest in using the NUF as a corporate form. For the Center Party, this is a desirable development. The centre party has long seen the NUF as an unfortunate form of company based on its head office position abroad, and thus associated difficulties for Norwegian tax authorities to control their activities. The reform will make it easier for entrepreneurs to establish and operate their own limited liability companies with Norway as a company address. In the Centre Party, we hope that this is the beginning of an era when small enterprises, whether limited liability companies, limited liability cooperatives or unlimited liability traders, will receive increased positive attention in the future. Cooperatives with limited financial liability, with an economic activity similar to that of limited liability companies, should be treated in the same way as limited liability companies. It is not part of the existing legislative proposals. In the view of the Centre Party, this is necessary because limited-liability cooperatives are as transparent a form of company as the limited-liability companies. The differences are only that the holdings have different names – share versus share. The Ministry of Finance has clarified in the legal work that one will follow this simplification case carefully in the future. As part of this, the Ministry of Finance must pay particular attention to both limited-liability and foundations. The requirement for economic activity must be similar to that of the limited liability companies exempted from the audit obligation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e626	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e629	First, I want to pay tribute to the Center Party, which has both programmed to remove the audit obligation for small companies and is also now able to implement it. That's what you should be bragging about. It's very much appreciated because it shows that the Center Party hasn't completely forgotten where they originally came from. What is important is: I feel that there must be a huge labour gap in the Centre Party, because the Lundtigen and the Centre parties have well received the same letter that the Bondelag sent to the Finance Committee on 4 February 2011, asking questions about why not, despite the recommendation of the trade unions, ANSs with corresponding thresholds come under this. This is all from forest properties owned by several, to land cover and fishing pools where hunting and fishing rights are rented out. Many of these tend to have higher audit costs than income in some years. The question for Lundtigen is: Has the Senterpartie forgotten the ANSs in agriculture when it comes to removing the audit obligation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e638	Cooperatives have two possibilities, either limited financial liability cooperatives or unlimited financial liability. As I explained in the article, it is central here that cooperatives with limited financial liability are able to be fully equal to limited liability companies, which in their logic have limited liability. However, it is different for cooperatives with unlimited liability. This remark has not been sufficiently taken into account by the hearing bodies which have entered the ministry. That's why that process has not been done in a thorough manner, naturally enough, and it's one of the tasks that I pointed out in my speech that the Minister of Finance should look at in the further process.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e645	I also want to pay tribute to the Centre Party for having had an impact on an important programme entry in its programme. And then Lundteigen spent time on what the previous replicator also took up, which other types of companies should naturally come under the same arrangements that the majority here now adopts today. My question is then: How does Lundteggen see that this work is to be followed up, and in his view can we expect a proposal from the government in the near future that also includes the companies that Lundtigen himself thought there was really no reason to discriminate against the arrangements we are now adopting?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e653	As I said, there has been a lack of scoring in relation to cooperatives, as I said in my previous reply, which may have two different content. What is at the heart of the matter now is that limited liability limited liability companies and limited liability cooperatives are subject to audit as simple – or difficult – to review, and therefore have to be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. I hope that the Minister of Finance will be able to clarify this in more detail. But from the Central Party we see it as perfectly natural that in the coming work this issue is taken care of, so that it becomes non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e658	I'm reacting a little to the words 'lack of reasoning'. The procedure has provided more than enough opportunity to re-establish the obvious bias of omitting responsible agricultural companies from the exemption that is now being adopted. So it just has to be established that the Central Party has not been implemented here. Because it is clear – and Lundtigen knows it just as well as I do – that there are quite a number of joint ventures, especially in forests, which almost have not been traded for quite many years. The audit fee would be higher than the turnover. So it's incredibly impractical to maintain an audit requirement for that type of company. At the same time, when regulating the market as strongly as it has done in soil and forest, where natural turnover is not started, this should have been included. I also look forward to the Minister of Finance saying a little more about the progress of time on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e665	Responsible companies – there are many different types of legal names on it. That's why it's usually necessary to have a high level of precision on which types of companies we're talking about here. I am pleased that the opposition has a particular focus on proportion. It's rare in this room, and it's thanking the Center Party for that. Now, the representative Gundersen comes with the same company, which is a different form of company. So immediately we're in the question of having a level of precision in terms of terms that have different content. That's exactly why people choose to organize their economic activity under different umbrellas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e670	So the line chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e673	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the rapporteur for a good job. When Ms. Marte Thorkildsen said that she would be a party brake, I suppose my opinion is that the case-rapporteur feels it a completely different way. I think she's been a strong driver for the result we're going to adopt today. I've noticed her commitment in several contexts right in this area. So I think it's a good day for the President-in-Office, to say it like that. But I want to say anyway that I think No Marte Thorkildsen has significant points in his post. This is not a one-sided plus statement, to call it that. It's both debit and credit. It is only to look at rather heavy hearing bodies for this proposal that have turned the thumb down. We've also weighed this, but we've figured out that the benefits after all outweigh the disadvantages. But we are by no means blind to the fact that there may also be some negative consequences that could make tax fraud and other forms of economic crime simpler, which the majority also address by pointing out that remedial action may be necessary. But, as I said, from the Christian People's Party, we've figured out that the pluses, after all, are more than the negatives, and then we hope that the experience shows that it will be the case. An important reason is also to see how to organise around neighbouring countries, and that is not something we can close our eyes to, nor the establishment of Norwegian companies abroad, which in any case avoids these rules that we have had related to auditing. There's a point in itself to prevent a further strong growth of that type of company and rather get them into the fold here at home to a greater extent than is the case today. So it has been said that the Bondelag has attributed the committee to that responsible company that has more than five participants, but less than five million. kr on the market, should also be subject to the same legislation. We included that in the committee, and I am pleased that an overall opposition supports that these should also be covered by the legislation. Then we heard Lundtigen, and we also meet the Minister of Finance's response to the challenge he has been faced with in what way the government will follow up the work, so that what may seem to be a discrimination for which there is no factual basis can be lifted in the further work. With this we also recommend the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e686	The next speaker is Borghild Tenden. - They've been asked to change lines.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e689	I would like to start by thanking the representative, Mr Syversen, both for the kind words of the case rapporteur and at all for a kind presentation, and for seeing that there are some balances here. But on that basis, I am a little surprised that the Christian People's Party has written down on a note, where one ‘shows that the work of the auditor is not directed to detect mishaps and financial crime’. Ecocrime has just referred to in its opinion: ‘The role of prevention is one of the key roles of the auditor. The fact that, as we see it, there should be an auditor – supposedly capable and professionally skeptical – working against, among other things, financial crime. The propensity to commit deliberate undesirable actions is reduced as an increased risk of being detected.’ Ecocrim also says: «The audit firm also has a different function in the fight against financial crime: when an undertaking is subject to audit, the auditor’s explanation and documents from the statutory auditor’s employment documents will often be important evidence in financial criminal matters.» Does the representative agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e706	I agree. At the same time, I also believe that this is not to the extent the statutory auditor's main task, but it is a consequence of having had an audit obligation. I fully agree that having audit requirements has a preventive effect, which I absolutely recognise is present. But, as I said, it's not the auditor's main task to detect crime. There are actually others in this society who have the task to do. But as a natural consequence of the work done by the auditor, and at all events that an auditor is there, it becomes a stronger focus, which I think has a preventive effect. That's why I think some companies will equally choose to have audits, because for example. creditors will also require it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e711	The reason why I take the floor now is that I know from Thorkildsen and also from Syversen, who have good comments, that yes this matter also has its limitations. I would like to point out from the right that auditing itself is a strength for business. Many banks need it, many investors need it, and it provides good information for shareholders, for creditors, for governments and for the media. Many – most of them – accountants do a very good job. They actually have to do that, and that's why they have a long and good education. So when the Right goes in to remove the audit obligation for the small companies, it doesn't matter that we have any aversion to auditors like that – it's actually because we believe that here business has burdens and costs that are not compensated. That's why the right is in favour of removing the audit obligation, not because we don't think the audit actually brings something positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e718	I guess I didn't see the big question. But since No Marte Thorkildsen – and now goes away from the pulpit as well – said that it was a friendly post, I can say, to get some political balance in an article from the Christian People's Party, which I am always very concerned about, that that comment from Arve Kambe I can fully agree to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e723	The chord shift has been completed. The president just wants to comment on two things. One is that it is an advantage to ask for the word for a line during the post, or at the end of the post, because you do not want to advertise someone who is not yet speaking. The second is that the replicators should stand by their pulpit until they have heard the answer. It is common – and quite polite too, moreover.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e729	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a good review and, as the rapporteur said, it is quite clear that for many smaller businesses this is a happy day. And it's a happy left section with many of those that have had a small breathing space both in relation to form fields and in relation to economic costs. The left is very busy with the conditions for the smallest enterprises. Today's decision is a step on the way to making things better, but we have a long way to go before the Left is satisfied. And we're going to be impatient. We will be at least as impatient as we have been in this matter. We can be very generous today and congratulate the government on the fact that there are many companies that are releasing audit obligations after this decision, but there is reason to recall that an overall opposition already on 29 March 2006 – i.e. rather precisely five years ago – proposed removing the audit obligation for the smallest companies. After that, both the Left, Right and Advance Party have repeatedly challenged different government councils and government party representatives on this particular topic. Without an impatient and steadfast opposition, I am uncertain about the outcome here in this case. In line with other representatives, I am surprised that the Central Party has not been able to get a pass on exempting partnerships with more than five members, but with less than 5 million. kr on the market for auditing purposes. Responsible companies are a common form of company, both in agriculture and in forestry. In particular, many forest and land properties operating as partnerships have limited activity as turnover. Typical examples of such activities are rental of hunting and fishing permits, where audit costs represent a significant share of turnover in these companies. But, as we have heard, the Minister of Finance will explain it later. An overall opposition will also lift the audit obligation of this type of company. Finally, a small note relating to the matter we are dealing with in parallel, but which has actually few been involved, Document 8:19 S, the proposal from the Progress Party and concrete proposals to reduce the retention obligation for accounting material from ten to five years. I record that the Minister of Finance has promised to come back to Stortinget with his own case during the spring. We also note that the spring is here, and that is for this reason (a) hope that the matter will come to Stortinget in a short time, and (b) that the outcome will be identical to the proposal of the Progress Party, Right and Left to halve the storage obligation. As stated in the Minister of Finance's letter, the total cost of keeping accounting material is approximately the same. 630 million. kr annually. Therefore, halving the storage time will be an important and appropriate contribution to reducing both unnecessary costs and unnecessary form fields.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e742	There is a great deal to be enjoyed in Norway, and there is also reason to rejoice in the decision to be taken later today by the Stortinget regarding the audit obligation — and it has also been underlined by several speakers, who have expressed the same joy. This is a proposal that has several balances. One is the relationship to simplification for the companies involved. There is a balance between control, information, supervision and the fact that, as far as the cards of the people on the other hand are concerned, but at the same time there is every reason to stress that this is in itself a great declaration of trust for the companies concerned. Then I also want to stress what was said in a previous line exchange, that it is not that one should not have an audit. Revision is important. In addition to the job to be done under the law, audit is also an important contributor to having good control procedures, to having good systems in each enterprise to ensure that one does so properly and in a good way. What is also happening is that the proposal implies that the framework conditions also for the smallest companies are adapted to international developments. Most EU and EEA countries have already granted exemptions from or have never had an audit obligation for the smallest limited liability companies. This also means strengthening the competitive situation of Norwegian companies. When you get a right to do something, it is often that you also have a duty, and one of the duties attached to the proposal that is now there is to provide extended information to the Brønn Island Health Registers, for example. in relation to the authorised accounting officer and how the accounts of individual companies are kept. Then, more people in the debate have argued that the issue has an important aspect to do with tax control issues. It is important that someone takes this into account, so that tax and tax controls have the means to control and combat financial crime. It also means that tax and charging authorities are allowed to impose audit obligations on public limited liability companies that have not been audited and the NUF with limited liability that is exempt from audit obligations for up to three years if detailed conditions are met. The solution now selected will be evaluated after some time, for example. in relation to whether there have actually been negative effects on tax control and financial crime. Then I would like to comment on some of the questions that have been raised in the vote, which have also been addressed in the debate so far. A relationship is a review of special certification requirements. The call for special certification requirements to assess whether the control profit exceeds the costs for business will now be reflected in the initiative of the Ministry of Finance towards other departments, so that they can review matters requiring certification, including: to grant grants. Individual ministries will be asked to review their grant schemes in order to assess the type of control measures necessary to impose on companies. Then it's about auditing obligations for parent companies in the group. I believe that this proposal presupposes that natural persons should be treated in the same way as group parent companies if they have controlling interests in several companies. Such a rule could help to prevent the possibility of circumventing the audit requirement by having companies in their own right instead of exercising ownership through a holding company. Such a rule would, in practice, have to include, in order to be effective, persons who do not currently have general accounting obligations under the Accounting Act. A prerequisite for a proposal which may give rise to an audit obligation in such cases is therefore that the accounting obligation and its detailed content are clarified for such persons, where appropriate, that audit obligations be imposed directly on companies in which those persons have ownership. Both options require investigation, and I see it as natural that in the evaluation you have notified, one goes through this question and returns to the Stortinget with the result of the evaluation. The number of companies involved has also been a subject of debate so far. According to the Central Bureau of Statistics, a total of over 136,000 non-financial limited liability companies meet all three thresholds. Below it is approx. 17 000 parent companies that will not be able to opt out of the audit, and the number of AS that the bill can deselect from the audit will be approximately 119 000. In addition, it is approx. 25 000 pure subsidiaries which may end up having to carry out certain audit acts to a greater or lesser extent because the parent company's accounts have to be audited. The issue of audit obligations for partnerships has also been a topic. We evaluated this in the proposition, but the short story here is that we are also going to review this in the evaluation in the light of the debate we have had today. I can stress that simplification is going to continue, and if the department finds that this is feasible in a good way, we will, of course, do it. I remember a election poster from the Workers' Party at the end of the 1940s where it said: The progress is going to continue. That's the same thing here. Simplification is going to continue in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e770	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e773	First of all, I want to pay tribute to the Council of State for the fact that we have to make exactly the decision we are making today. A press release was sent on behalf of both the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry to the effect that the audit obligation will be lifted from 1 January 2011. In retrospect, you have been able to read in the newspaper that there were questions about whether you were able to follow that date. My question to the Minister of Finance is this: Can the Council of State confirm that the date of 1 January 2011 is firm, and that these companies can now adjust to it and should not be in any doubt created by the daily press?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e782	Like me, among others. has informed in response to questions from the representative, Rytman, we will try to do everything we can to facilitate that this can actually happen from 1 January 2011, as foreseen. If the Storting joins the case today, and joins it in the next round, there are opportunities to get the law sanctioned by the Council of State on 15 April. Then we might get a relationship with limited liability companies that may have already held their general meetings. But we're going to see if it's possible to create a transitional rule here, so that they can also be included. Then I forgot in my post to show that in the case of the law on the custody obligation, we do not reach it in the spring, but it will come as soon as possible, so that the Storting will also have the opportunity to deal with it during the year 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e791	What has been the big issue since the presentation is that there has been a lot of back and forth between the Storting, hearing organisations and the Ministry of Finance. At least it sees Right as a bit of a messy process. For the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Industry, the press conference announces that more than 30 000 more ASs will be exempted from the audit obligation than is happening. What I'm asking is, was the change that came along in the proceedings, based on sloppyness in the Ministry of Finance, or was it simply that the department changed its mind from the proposition to treatment in the Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e796	I guess it's more like a mistake that you didn't have a full overview of the number of companies, but I'd like to say that it's a slur, because the Ministry of Finance doesn't have the habit of dealing with it. But here it was a mistake, and it turns out that the number was slightly smaller. At the same time, as I said in my post, it's important now to enjoy the companies that have an opportunity to deselect audit, and then we'll see what the future holds in relation to whether new companies can be brought into the arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e801	I stunned a little when the finance minister said he remembers well that the Workers' Party had a slogan at the end of the 1940s that progress should continue. It is possible that I have taken some mistakes in the age of the Minister of Finance, but it is rather that it is part of the collective memory in the Workers' Party we are talking about. My question is not about that, but about what the Council of State was about, namely the responsible companies. He announced that if the Ministry of Finance found out that it was a good order, one would come back to the Stortinget with a proposal for a change. We've heard the Central Party's view of this, so my question is: does the Council of State now see that there should be any factual basis for treating the type of company in a different way from those that we are giving relief today, so that progress can continue?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e808	It is still the case that the undersigned was born in 1950, but it may say a little about the finance minister's knowledge of the history of the movement of labour that he can refer to an election poster that he has read about from the end of the 1940s. When it comes to the question of ANS etc., I think that the representative Lundteg had good answers to the replies that were there. It is necessary to review this, because it is clear that it would be much easier if all companies were limited companies – both legally and in other ways. But there are different forms of ownership, and there is a need to review the matter. If we find that this can be done without too much control, to use that expression, the Ministry of Finance will do that, because this will also be part of the future simplification in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e815	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e820	The Labour Party has always been concerned with creating and caring for businesses and jobs. An active ownership and organisation of good corporate framework conditions is a continuous job. We want our businesses to be busy producing and creating, and to be good jobs. That's why we also want to remove unnecessary time thieves and expenses. Removing the audit obligation has been a challenging matter in balancing the concerns of tax control and the fight against financial crime on the one hand, and simplification and international development on the other. Making everyday life easier because about 100,000 small businesses have made weights harder for us. With this proposal, the small limited liability companies themselves will have the possibility to assess whether the costs associated with auditing exceed the own-account assets held by the companies with audited accounts. At the same time, we equate Norwegian limited liability companies and the NUF with limited liability when it comes to auditing requirements, which may help to weaken incentives to use the NUF as a corporate form. This is a desired development, and it also has a control point. Most other EU/EEA countries have already granted exemptions from, or have never had, audit obligations for the smallest companies. The framework for the smallest enterprises is now being adapted to international developments. That's good. The Labour Party has been aware that this matter also has an important role to play when it comes to tax control issues. In order to ensure that tax and fiscal control and the fight against financial crime are taken into account, it is advisable for tax authorities to be able to impose an audit obligation for up to three years when there are more detailed conditions – this for public limited liability companies that have opted out of audit and the NUF. Removing the audit obligation for small limited liability companies is a simplification measure, whereby companies save both time and money. This is one of many simplification measures that help make everyday life easier for our businesses. Under this I will also mention the government's investment on the Altinn. In the news of innovation, St.meld. No 7 for 2008-2009 An innovative and sustainable Norway, we warn red-green that there would be a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. In this context, a Council of Business, Business and LO representatives has been set up. We in the Labour Party have also had many advice/consultation where we have received input on simplification. I would also like to mention that in Soria Moria II there is a presumption that there is to be an assessment of the share and accounting laws for the purposes of simplification and that there is now a report in this area, which is to be assessed. There is also a large-scale report on future industrial policy. Finally, I would like to say that the Minister of Finance said it so well: we are not on target. Simplifying is going to continue, because this government is acting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e847	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for finally getting this matter in place. It's taken time. These proposals go back several years in time. Several opposition parties have repeatedly made proposals in this direction. We now also see this in another case that we are dealing with today in addition to the proposal, which is just a proposal for a representative. The representative's proposal also deals with the retention of accounting documents, and it is sad that there is no majority in favour of that matter today. It is also sad to note that the Council of State has now, during the change of line with the undersigned, confirmed that no case will be raised in the spring session in this respect either. I hope at least that the Council of State will ensure that the work is continued, and that it will be so early in the autumn that it is possible to deal with it during the harvest session, that this will not be so late that the Storting will not have time to deal with the matter. There have also been some questions back and forth related to the Center Party, and what has to do with the ANS. I think the signals from the Center Party are very good. As of today, there will be a majority in this Chamber for that very proposal. The problem is that it is precisely the centre party that does not vote in favour of proposal No. 2nd@item: inlistbox There is, of course, that opening – and it will be taken at a later meeting in Stortinget, as this is a legal matter, but at least you have the opportunity to go into the proposal that is here. I am very pleased that the Socialist Left Party, which is the only party in this Chamber that has now said that you are against this, has had to surrender to government. I think that's very positive. But we need to go a step further. The government has not yet come to Stortinget with or expressed how much to reduce the form field. Our neighbouring countries and the EU have set their targets. This government has not done so, cf. The representative Heggø's statement that this is a powerful government that delivers. Furthermore, it is also clearly a discussion relating to capital requirements, i.e. the size of the share capital and the sole committee that has reviewed these things and that has made a recommendation. I hope the government will come quickly with that. And you've talked a lot about Altinn II. I just have to say, it takes a really long time. When you put something like that in place, you can actually do something about the form field and the way you report it. So I hope the Council of State, along with the Minister of Industry, will get ahead of that work, because it needs the small and medium-sized enterprises, on which this country is founded.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e862	As daily tenants in smaller businesses for many years, I have often wondered about the purpose of auditing for these small businesses. The reason was an expensive service and what I want to mention as little or no control. We saw that on bookkeeping, the authorities had found that there was no such thing as the reason for the lack of audit reporting, which again fell on daily rentals or owners. It is also striking that today’s day-to-day tenants have to sign declarations that fully exempt the audit firm from compensation or liability for errors or omissions, this in spite of an expensive service and full access for the auditor to all of the requested control, overview or information. It is therefore a pleasure that the audit obligation for smaller enterprises is now being removed. This does not always mean that this service is not wanted by business, but the audit firm must contribute to a service that the company or business regards as good and useful – and hence desired. At the same time, however, the amount of form and duties is challenged by the traders so that this too should be simplified, especially in the company that has a low turnover and get attachments. With management experience from companies with less than 1 million. SEK in turnover to companies with 3 billion. On the market, I find it strange that the form volume is similar – relative – to that. But it is a step in the right direction for operational and innovative entrepreneurs who feel overwhelmed by the form and the control area, what we are about to adopt today. There is also a strengthening of the competitiveness of smaller companies, which is very important in a country with one of the world's highest cost levels. Simplification is also expected for industry, in line with stated objectives, including: Storage obligations should be given a high focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e875	First, I would just like to thank the Committee for its good work and for a good debate. This is a matter for which everyone is happy, and which almost everyone wants to take part in today’s era – and even if it is the red-green government that is doing this, we may well be so bright that we can share it. The most important is now the decision and the simplification implemented for 119 132 companies, which may deselect audit. But I have a few comments for the debate. The two things that it has been most unpleasant about are, first of all, that with group and parent company, second, ANS. When it concerns groups, it is actually like creating group models, it is less transparent, and there may be a need for greater control in these types of companies. I want to say two things about it. We're going to evaluate this in two years. Then there's a way to get back to this. So it's pretty important to say that we don't require revision of the subsidiary. In that case, there will be work for the auditor. I've also talked to the Auditor's Association, and of course they'll be able to do some work for the subsidiaries, but not a full audit. When this applies to ANS and more than five participants – who have been up here several times – it is true that the selection proposed to remove the intentional one. But they proposed it together with a proposal for universal rights for a single participant to require an audit for the entire company. There would actually be a sharp suggestion for them with less than five participants. Therefore - in this game - we have only chosen to proceed correctly. But, of course, the adjustment of the thresholds must be the same for small limited liability companies. But, as I have said before, this should also be evaluated. It's also called other types of companies. The selection has looked at other types of companies, but it does not propose changes in other types of companies. But we can also look at this in a possible evaluation. Finally, I made a proposal on behalf of the Finance Committee in my main post. It is not yet distributed. I would just like to say that it is only a matter of ‘restricted audit’ being changed to ‘simplified audit’. It's coming out of the Secretariat soon.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e888	At least the President may now draw attention to the fact that the proposal referred to by the representative Gunvor Eldegard will be dealt with in an ordinary manner. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 5 and 6. [[See pages 3367 and 3373]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e906	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e915	Let me start by thanking the Committee for a good and constructive treatment. There has actually also been a movement in the matter through the treatment, and we think that is positive. For the legal certainty of taxpayers, a comprehensive and complex theme. Combating tax evasion is important, but the legal certainty of taxpayers must not drown in that debate. It is important to maintain the legitimacy of the system, that justice is given a place, and that taxpayers feel treated fairly. It's absolutely central to maintaining the tax morality we have in Norway. The Committee's proceedings were carried out with a backcloth with many media and newspaper headlines. Titles such as ‘Tax debt deleted after 15 years, but life is ruined’, ‘Distribution loss gave residual tax nightmares’ and the Riksrevision report, in particular, to some local variations and discrimination in the tax haven, were reversed. So some of this has to be taken into account in the administration, while other things have to be taken through laws and regulations. When we saw the Minister of Finance's letter to the Committee, there was not much hope. There wasn't much evidence that you saw the need for change. But then the Committee carried out a consultation with a fairly wide range of complex selections, and signals from at least all the external members of that sample went quite unambiguously in the direction that the focus should be on the legal certainty of taxpayers. In view of this, there has been a development of the majority, and they have asked the government to return to the Grand Duchy in an appropriate way. I expect them to explain for themselves, and I also expect the Progress Party to present its proposals, so I will explain the Right View in the vote. As I said, legal certainty and tax evasion are complicated, and a complex issue. That is why we have chosen not to support individual proposals, except for the first proposal. Several of the proposals are good, but we believe that the whole problem must be seen in a comprehensive perspective. That is why we want a matter for the Stortinget and not a piece and a split debate, and I am therefore promoting the proposal on which the Right is involved. To the backside here: we had a tax avoidance committee, and some proposals from the tax avoidance committee were dealt with in the 2010 state budget. I think in a lot of ways that that sample has some mistrust of tax payers, that you see tax evasion in any tax payer, and that's not the theme that's served. That is why we have both had an interpellation a few years ago about the legal certainty of the issue of taxpayers, and, as I said, we have had a very wide-ranging debate in the media. Because what we should all appreciate is that we have a very high tax morality in Norway, we have a high willingness to finance the common good. But as I said, it requires legitimacy and justice in the process. That is why this is an important debate. Taking into account the legal certainty of taxpayers does not have to be either expensive or very complicated. These are such things as independent review bodies, equal representation in the processing process and a review of laws and regulations, so that taxpayers feel that they receive fair treatment and are not inferior throughout the process. Of course, all legal certainty slows down something – it is something we are used to taking into account, but it is a price we also pay in all other contexts to ensure just legal certainty. Norway is a good country to live in. We have a standard of living the rest of the world can envy us, and the will to finance is high. That's how we're going to work to keep having it. The legitimacy of the system must be focused. Justice and legal certainty are important elements. The right will have a selection in place as soon as possible and with a mandate to complete its work by 1 January 2012. The government parties have not set a deadline, but we hope it does not take years and days before it comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e932	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e935	For all of us who are concerned with a strong and good public sector, it is also important that we have a critical look at the services provided by this sector. When it comes to the tax haven, I feel that there is a line going from the Bondevik II government until today, where a process of renewal and improvement has been continuously pursued, and fortunately, user studies show that a majority of those in contact with the tax authorities are very pleased with the service they receive. I would like to stress that the Tax Agency annually treats over 4 million equations, and it says a little bit about the quality that that department delivers. Over the years, many measures have come into force to simplify and improve the service provided by the Tax Agency. Here you can mention pre-filled declarations, exemption from delivery for those who are employees or pensioners and who have no changes — a major reorganization of the establishment to improve quality. The case rapporteur was aware that in this case there has been a movement – which I expect the Minister of Finance might give a little explanation about – which shows that the government is concerned about continuing the work that has now been going on with the department for many years. That being said, there's every reason to take over the reality descriptions you get. For those who remember a little bit: there was a pretty long round in the daily press, especially in a couple of newspapers, where there were individual items that have been going on for years between the company and the tax haven, which shows that we still have an improvement potential. Fortunately, the experience of the new system, which has improved dialogue between companies and the tax haven, shows that some of the disputes that have arisen in the past due to complex equations are now being avoided due to improved dialogue. So it's clear that in that area is an en route, and on the way to getting better. When the Red-Green parties have promoted a comment on the matter, a Document 8 proposal, in which we ask the Minister of Finance to come back to the Stortinge in an appropriate way, it is precisely in respect of the complexity of the matter – as the rapporteur also pointed out. The legal certainty of taxpayers has a lot of approaches, and I think it's hardly appropriate for a Document 8 proposal to go in and change these big things, because it's so complex. So here you have to see it in a much larger width. And I believe that there can be no revenue for any unwillingness to enter into this debate that we are not now going to vote for any of the proposals promoted by the Progress Party. But just in respect of both the establishment, which does a good job, and the individual taxpayer, we believe that this deserves a broader process than a Document 8 proposal adds.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e950	Let me first say to the previous speaker that we are pleased that we are going to get back to these issues along the way, and that one does not in that way reject the very good proposals of the Progress Party. The purpose of the activities of the Tax Debit is to ensure that the right tax is paid by the right object in a timely manner. The tax rate has considerable power to meet society’s requirements for the determination of the right tax. In order to be effective, it is important that there is a trust relationship between the taxpayer and the equality authorities. Most of us probably don't get a lot of contact points with the Tax Agency, except to get a tax card and the equation. Others are subjected to rounds after rounds in the tax system because they are critical of the tax haven, or because there is a high level of achievement in cases. Still others become powerless spectators to the effect that possible leakages from the equation treatment lead to dramatic impairment in the company and endanger the operation of their own workplaces. Therefore, I was somewhat surprised that the Minister of Finance was so reprehensible to these issues in his first reply to the Committee. It is not acceptable for a finance minister to lean back and expect everything to work properly. There has to be a constant focus on making the tax haven better, from the point of view of taxpayers. That is why I am pleased that the Minister of Finance has come up with better ideas and will look into some of these issues. There's a lot of good in the tax haven, and there's been a lot of significant improvements in recent years. Nevertheless, many people still experience being stamped by the tax haven when simple defects or defects are discovered. Then it is not the service instinct that is the first one discovered, but a prestigious opponent who does everything to win over you. The proposals included in the vote are initially intended to safeguard the interests of taxpayers. However, it will also help to safeguard the interests of society, because if an equal treatment is provided that is more open and willing to find solutions rather than promoting conflict, tax morality is improved even more. The tax authorities are an innovation that was intended to strengthen the professionalism of their complainants. I think this has also happened. I have experience from both past and current denominator systems, and today's system is clearly better, professionally speaking, than the old system of equation denominators and equalization subjects and county tax subjects. However, there are still some weaknesses. Firstly, it is strange that the principle of countermeasures should only be respected by way of consideration if explicitly requested by the taxpayer. In all other general government, it is a prerequisite that this should be done in order for the proceedings to be considered sound. Secondly, it is clear that the denominators are highly dependent on the professional assessments of the Skatteetaten. Despite the fact that the competence of the members of the denominator is now better than it has been before – because specific eligibility requirements are imposed – the tax rate is the decision of the tax defendant in the pen. It's a strange construction, which is unfortunate. The name should be given the opportunity to write their own endorsements, irrespective of the tax status. Firstly, it is more practical, and secondly, it will ensure a real more independent removal. The tax rate is also in the special condition that it collects taxes, regardless of whether there is a valid decision or not. In all other contexts, the recovery of a claim is halted when the claim is contested. However, the tax rate may, in effect, force houses and homes to cover a tax charge for the subsequent losses in the courts. Then it is difficult to replace the loss of the childhood home and get the wife to move back after the divorce settlement. These decisions tear up families, and there are no consequences for those who do – regardless of whether they are right or not. Therefore, recovery should be postponed in cases where there is reasonable doubt about the tax liability. On the same basis, losses due to mishandling or determination by tax authorities should also be replaced in full. It creates confidence if those dealing with tax matters also have to take the consequences when they make mistakes. The illegal cutting rule is a rule that is outside the control of the legislator. It was created by the Supreme Court and further developed by the Skatetaten. In our opinion, it is not acceptable that this form of intervention in the private sector should not be adopted by the Stortinget. The size should therefore replace the illegal cut-through by a statutory cut-through rule, so that the size determines the basis for the content of the cut-through rule. I have over time been in contact with many people who believe that the Tax Agency is committing serious abuses against some taxpayers. The media has also referred to many of these matters. For this reason, the work on service thinking in the Tax Agency needs to be intensified. The possibilities for improvement are obvious, although most still have a relatively good relationship with the tax haven. On that basis, I would like to mention the proposals made by the Progress Party in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e987	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e990	It's tempting to start by giving a little visit to the representative Anundsen, my good colleague from Vestfold, who is dedicated to improving people's tax morals. Well, then I'll at least challenge on two points. The first concerns the taxes on wealth. If you go to, like the Advance Party, to remove the property tax, you'll make most of the country's billionaires zero-taxors. In that case, it will have a bearing on tax morality. Another point is the tax havens. One of the greatest threats to tax morality, not least to businesses, is encouraging and encouraging the use of tax havens. In this particular area too, I believe that the representative, Anundsen, should take a little talk with his colleagues, who have both looked and often moved into the media with support for the use of tax havens. That being said, I would like to start by giving tribute to the same party, which has put an important issue on the agenda. Legal certainty for citizens is generally important and should concern us. This also applies when we are taxpayers. If we don't want to please taxpayers, at least we want understanding taxpayers who want to contribute to the fissure layer. That, of course, assumes that you feel treated fairly. This is true in relation to the level of taxation, which I had in mind — that others contribute, and that they contribute according to their ability — but also in relation to the fact that the practice of the tax system is such that people in practice feel fair treatment. We must always have a critical look at the state and the state's meeting with the inhabitants. This applies in particular to us who are concerned that we should have a strong public sector, such as: The representative Thomas Breen from the Workers' Party was inside. So the tax rate treats, as it also says in the setting, four million tax returns each year. There have been huge changes and simplifications that are primarily of the good in this area, but can also have its drawbacks. But I have to say that pre-filled, electronic announcements that we don't even have to deliver, almost sound like a dream, but that's actually a reality for many. The National Audit Service has criticised the Tax Agency for, among others: regional differences in the way the same issues are addressed. It is important that we take seriously, and it has also been debated in connection with the follow-up of this report by the Control and Constitutional Committee. Nevertheless, it is important to stress, as the Committee does, that most of the cases are handled in a good way — in an impressively good way, taking into account all the matters that they have to deal with, and all the statements of intent that they have to deal with. At the same time, it is obvious that it does not help individuals who experience that they are being treated unfairly in response to the Tax Act, that we can say that most of the cases are well dealt with. We must always be concerned with those who feel that the meeting is not all right. Both Minister of Finance Johnsen and former Minister of Finance Halvorsen have been concerned with the legal certainty of taxpayers and with simplification measures in the field of taxation. I can mention that in the last period we reorganized the tax haven, among other things. in order to prevent complaints from being dealt with by the same case handler who took the original decision on the equation. In addition, increased specialisation in the Tax Act has led to better legal certainty. Furthermore, the subjects of the equation and the comparative studies were replaced by five subjects of the tax complaint. Former Minister of Finance Halvorsen was also particularly concerned with the so-called disadvantaged tax payers. Among other things, we changed the rules, so that there was an exemption from the additional tax on ‘indemnities’, as it is called, at the taxpayer’s premises, for example. where missing information from the taxpayer was due to a difficult life situation. It's an important group to be aware of. The government will come up with more simplification measures in the future, and we will also have to do more to improve legal certainty. Some of the work started is mentioned in the settings. Of course, we should follow this up, but we also ask the government to come back to the Storting in an appropriate way with an assessment of the legal certainty of taxpayers in a wider perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1009	As many people have been involved, this is an important matter. Improving legal certainty for taxpayers is a continuous process, and the government must therefore work to improve its practices based on what is seen as fair treatment among the majority of people. I hope that the opposition notices the attitude of the representatives of the government parties here on the matter, where we are just going into the matter with the seafaring perspective. Because it's absolutely fundamental that, in terms of what's in the position of high tax morals and effective, fair collection, we are able to ensure broad disintegration about it. Well, what we're doing in this way is what's most important to make sure we get a tax collection that's in line with what's meant by it all. As others have also pointed out, the tax principles underlying taxation of individuals are quite central. I think that more people from this pulpit should develop the fundamental tax principle on which we have the tradition of building, namely taxes according to our ability. If you have financial ability, you have the ability to pay. Thus, as early as the late 1800s, we received income taxes and property taxes. We see the point there: regardless of how people relate to parties, it is said that that principle is considered fair. There we can provide according to our ability when we have money to pay with, based on the economic surplus of our income and our work, whether it be employees or businessmen. As stated in the setting, the Riksrevision has gone through this topic and said that this works mainly well, but there are also things that need to be looked at. As others have pointed out, it is all from the simple things, in improving the procedures around the avoidance of tax claims in the event of obvious errors, so-called simple corrections, to the much more demanding, to get into the dilemma of dealing with cases where there is justified suspicion of tax evasion of taxpayers. This has all along two sides. We know that some people have a fairly high creativity to safeguard their interests at the expense of the interests of the community. It is a matter of course that we as legislators have to take into account, so that we ensure that the many who behave properly get a profit from it. Finally, I just want to say that what the majority here has come up with, and that has been included in the vote, is that we want the government to come back to the Storting in an appropriate way with an assessment of this. It's a demanding theme. It requires thorough preparation. But it's an important thing that's on the map. The government parties are very concerned that here we are getting changes in line with what people see as a fair tax that preserves both those who behave perfectly exemplary, and those who, in some cases, may show a behavior that is on the edge of what is advisable, and that thus has to be broken down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1024	Thank you to the President-in-Office for a good review. I want to start by commending the Advance Party for bringing up an important matter. In general, it is about individual human rights in relation to the large, often impermeable ‘system’. There is a problem we in the Left are very concerned about, both in this case and in other similar cases. As the proposers also point out, the Tax Agency and the tax offices manage a complex regulatory framework, but at the same time have a great freedom to use different instruments that can seem both incomprehensible and undemocratic to many taxpayers. In recent years, we have seen many examples of this. in a series of surveys in the last harvest of today's economic activity. It's human to fail, and our commitment to better legal certainty for taxpayers is not the same as an attack on the tax haven. It is a difficult balance to be both a service office, a control body, a decision-making body and at the same time – as the tax rate is in practice. That is why there is a need for a broad review of all the proposals of the Progress Party so that we can strengthen the legal certainty of taxpayers. There are certainly some proposals from the 15 concrete proposals from the Progress Party that the Left could have voted for and that I really hope the Council of State will take on board further work. This applies, for example: proposal No 5, that tax requirements cannot be recovered before a tax decision is enforceable, and proposal No. 6, on the repayment of interest on late payment. In the end, it's nice that most people are satisfied in their meeting with the Skattenetaten. But it helps very little for them – and there are too many – who feel totally powerless and just. Out of respect for these, the Storting should today have decided to set up a sample that strengthens the legal certainty of the taxpayer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1040	This is an important debate. I hear from the debate that we essentially agree on what we want to achieve, but that there may be slightly different assessments of the way there. Then I also hear that it is underlined that the Tax Agency is doing a good job on a continuous basis. But it's always room for improvement, as in other agencies and in other contexts of life. So this is important and far-reaching in the cooperation that the Ministry of Finance has with its underlying offices in what is called management dialogue in the technical language, e.g. with the Directorate of Taxation and the Tax Administration. The conclusion of the tax system is based on several factors. One is, of course, the job that tax collection, tax revenue and those who are set to manage the law and regulation are doing. It's crucial. The second thing that matters is that we have a sensible, good and fair tax system. The third is probably bound up with how people out there perceive that the money that comes in through the tax system is used for the different good purposes in our society through, among other things. the decisions taken by the Storting in connection with the State budget. In other words, the tax haven has and must focus on quality in all parts of its work, and citizens’ legal certainty is crucial. Then it is shown that user studies show that this is mainly well-managed, but, as I said, it should be constantly working on improving the level of service. I also want to point out that these are both simple and more complicated equations. In particular, in the more complex circumstances, in some cases the procedure will necessarily take a long time. Both the legislation and the fact of the matter can be complicated, and then there are two ways to attack it. One is to look at the actual proceedings in the department. The second is that, as politicians, we look at whether the legislation is simple enough and good enough, so there has to be an interaction between management and those that provide the legislation. Other questions concern the treatment of taxpayers where it is obvious that the equation has gone wrong, but where they still have to pay the residual tax. For some people, it takes too long for such things to be corrected, and of course, there are problems for those who are affected. That's why it's important that we now work on improving the routines to avoid those kinds of problems in the future. A third example is that, in order to further strengthen the legal certainty of taxpayers, tax payers are now automatically sent draft decisions in appeal cases. So far, it has been that the taxpayer must have asked for it in order to obtain such transparency. Finally, I would like to say that legal certainty in general is a fundamental pillar of the welfare and legal state. As a countyman, one of the main tasks I had was to ensure that people's legal security was ensured in different areas in relation to the rights that people have in society. It means that I am concerned about this work, not least in relation to the Ministry of Finance's underlying offices, including the Tax Agency. Legal certainty is always a long way to go in the work we're going to do. So it'll be that no matter how good you are, it's not possible, I think, at any time to make everyone a team. That is why, in some cases, there is a need to resort to the legal system. That's why we have the legal system. But it is important that before you get there, you should be sure that the administration has done the best possible job. In the light of what is in the vote, and in the light of the debate we have here today, I will come back to the Stortinget, as it stands in the vote, in an appropriate manner with an assessment of legal certainty in a slightly wider context, as the majority of the committee asks. I would also like to assess whether it is possible to present this so that as far as possible we get an overall discussion in Stortinget. We'll get back to that, as it says.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1057	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1060	An overall investigation, says the Minister of Finance. Many today accept the declaration, as they receive it electronically. They don't even look at the tax returns. Then you are charged 30 pst. additional tax if it contains errors. The Official Journal of Bergen and the Evening Post have shown a number of examples showing how unreasonable this seems to some. During the hearing of the Financial Committee, Professor Ole Gemms-Onstad stated that this was probably also unreasonable. The Progress Party today proposes the introduction of an opportunity principle, i.e.: looking at the amount of any additional tax in different examples. This is what the Minister of Finance says he wants to look at in a broader context. But I want a more fundamental answer from the Minister of Finance – instead of going back to the Ministry of Finance and the bureaucrats, as I myself have been before, and to get them to prepare some sort of answer: Does he think this is correct, based on his own conscience? He thinks it's correct that it should be 30 pst. in any case, even if it has not been the intention when a mistake has been made?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1067	It's hard for me to go into more detailed things about what we're going to go through. But a general point of view in terms of tax returns is that we as taxpayers have a duty, when we sign on honour and conscience, to verify that the information contained in the tax returns is correct, and we have a duty to take care of payroll tasks and tasks that we get from the bank, in order to check what is in the electronic tax returns. I think it still has to be like this, if we're going to look at simplifications and a more principleal approach, that we can't take away people's responsibilities in order to check in a way that the information they actually have is correct. It is important that in a society where there are rights, there are also obligations. I believe that the obligation to check the declaration is relatively simple and should be possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1072	With respect to reporting, the last answer was not very good. It wasn't particularly practical either. In the past, it was possible to impose additional taxes at a lower rate in special cases. There is an option that has been excluded from both the tax haven and the tax complaints, which is now to be imposed on 30 p.m., which is to be mainly imposed, with the exception of some very specific, narrow cases. Then the reality is that you have a little bit of different experience in how you manage your life. Sometimes things are harder for some than they are for others. Sometimes there are completely plausible, natural reasons why you have made a mistake or that you have submitted too late, or that there are specific circumstances that should simply have led to the fact that you did not get an additional load at such a high additional tax. I would therefore ask the Council of State to consider in concrete terms whether it is not necessary to reintroduce the possibility of imposing additional taxes at a lower rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1079	I probably disagree with the characteristics that were given by the previous answer I gave, because it was about the duty we have as taxpayers to check that the information we actually provide to the Tax Agency is correct. I believe that it is a relatively affordable duty for most of us. Then I also see that there may be individual cases that make people unable to do it for different reasons. I see that the representative has a point regarding the amount of the additional tax. What I can promise is that we will also consider that question in relation to what we are now going to do, in order to get the most comprehensive discussion about legal certainty in Stortinget. I promise that we will then include an assessment of the question of another device on the additional tax.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1086	I appreciate the self-recognition of the Minister of Finance. There wasn't much of it in the first letter, but it's very good that you've come to realize that this is an important issue that you have to look at. I think the representative of Thorkildsen made a slightly interesting contribution, and in several of the lines you've always thought about it. Now you get the impression that the pre-filled statements you get are almost just signing, and then you're done with the matter. But it's quite right, as the Minister of Finance says, that taxpayers have the right and the obligation to check the information that it says, and sign that it's actually true. At the same time, we know that 80 pst. do not understand their own self-declaration, and that most people sign and believe that this is correct. I think we're going to see a number of cases, where taxpayers are held responsible for errors that you actually think the tax haven is in many ways a little responsible for. It will weaken the legitimacy of the system. My question is: does the Minister of Finance see the challenge in relation to the direction technology actually brings us, and as most people see it as a pretty big simplification?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1095	As I also said in my speech, both the Minister of Finance and the state-martial have a beating heart for legal certainty, because it is such an important part of people's perception of the legal community, the rule of law and the welfare state. Of course, it's also going to apply in this area, because tax is something that affects all people gradually in our society. It's true, as Gundersen's representative says, that there's a balance between simplicity on the one hand and how it kind of was in the old days, when you sat for several days at the end of January and summed up the individual posts in the tax return. Finding the right balance here can be demanding, but I think it ultimately boils down to the fact that it's important that you have good information, it's important that you have developed systems that make it easy to access information. At the same time, both we and others should be aware that it is important that people try to get involved in the regulation on simplified self-declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1102	In my speech I mentioned two of the proposals from the Progress Party, namely proposal No. 5, that tax requirements cannot be recovered before a tax decision is enforceable, and proposal No. 6, on the repayment of interest on late payment. What assessments does the Minister of Finance make around these proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1107	I think I have to limit myself to saying that these are of the questions that we are going to consider, because this concerns the rules that are currently in the Tax Payments Act. But I can promise the representative Tend that this is also among the questions that will be considered, and that one will see if these are opportunities for improvement up against what is the purpose of the law today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1112	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1118	I've been watching the debate today, and it's striking how you always say you should come back to things. To certain things one should simply say that ‘yes, I agree, we will find a solution to that’, instead of saying that ‘I can’t decide this’, or ‘this isn’t done enough, or ‘it wasn’t me who came up with it’. That's the kind of thinking that's going on in this room. In fact, the Progress Party has thought a lot about this. We've gotten outside to think, and then we've promoted this proposal. There has been consultation within the Financial Committee. We've discussed it in and out and up and down. And then you get this answer, that we have to think about it even more, and then we're going to come back, and then we're going to be fine. You could say, well, here's a lot of good ideas that we're really getting involved with, but we want to have our implementation of it and our twist on it. Then I would have accepted it. I think it is weak that things have to be pushed in front of you all the time – something that is so obvious that there is a side up and down about it in both VG, Dagbladet, Abtenposten and Bergen's Official Journal! Then you should say, yes, it is unreasonable, I agree with that. I really didn't take the word to say exactly what I said now, but I want to go back to the posts, and the letters sent from the Ministry of Finance, where the comment all the time is, most of the taxpayers are doing well. Yeah, it was just supposed to be missing! So it's not the'most' tax collectors that this document is aimed at, but against those who are not being treated well, or who are potentially not going to be treated well, the ones that Anders Anundsen mentioned in his reply instead. These are the ones we want to meet with this proposal – not the 98 pst. who is being treated well. The representative of Breen was concerned that most people are doing well, and the Council of State was concerned that most people are doing well. The representative, Thorkildsen, says to tax on ability. It is the old mantra of the Socialist Left Party that we must tax on ability, and that is what the representative, Lundtigen, said. Yeah, but what's that? It sounds great, Mr Lundteg, to be taxed according to your ability. Is that when you have 5 billion? kr in wealth – is that right? And someone who doesn't have anything – is it unfair? Is that when you've paid half of the 5 billion? kr to the state – is that fair? Is that by ability? Is it when no one has any wealth left – is it because it's by ability? This is a floating term. You have to do other things through the tax system, too. You have to make incentives to make the pie bigger, to create growth. It's going to be an incentive to get to work. The dynamic effects must be put in place, because people will contribute because they don't have that high taxes. There are many effects of the tax system – not just sharing a cake, but making the cake bigger. Then you have to tax, according to different criteria. It's what creates growth in society, which creates positiveness and positiveness to the tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1138	Sometimes I'm envious of Tybring-Gjeddes – what to say – the black-and-white world. If that were the case that we could just jump on something, then everything would have been so much easier. If that was the case, why did Tybring-Gjede change his original Document 8 proposal after the hearing? Does it not just show that there is a complexity in this matter that makes it worthy of a broader approach? For example, proposal No. 5, which also the Left believes is a good proposal, very little support in the hearing we had. The law firm's court committee actually went against it, because they saw that it could be trained on purpose here, which would create a lot of bridesmaids. This has been taken over by the Progress Party, and then they have changed the proposal somewhat, or modified it, as I would call it. It shows that the complexity of this field is so great that it deserves a broader approach than — I kept saying — to put forward a number of proposals in a Document 8, which also change along the way. And then you're going to be high and dark at not just jumping on it. It's a strange nourishment to such a complex field. In addition, it seems to me that we point out that four million declarations are treated annually, and that most of them are very satisfied, and that this is almost taken for granted. No, that's not it. Then we have not followed in the history of the establishment and the development that has been in recent years, both under Bondevik II and this government. If you read the user survey, you can see that satisfaction is increasing considerably. That's why I also think it's in place to give praise to an establishment that has been under quite a great transformation, and that has actually succeeded to such an extent. Then I realize that it's not very close to the heart of the representative Tybring-Gjedde to give praise to public agencies, but for us others, it's quite natural to point out the fact. Then I have one question: the representative Anundsen is perhaps one of those who in this room often discusses the issue of auditing. It's not that long since the Riksrevision pointed out a pretty big assumption around the black economy. Where is that consideration in this debate? Are they completely subordinate, the billions that are being evicted from the Community box, to the representative of Anundsen? I hear no – no – approach to that issue when the Progress Party is discussing this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1149	I very much appreciate the representative Tybring-Gjedde. He's one of the few in this room who says his heart's opinion. More people should do it. I think we'd come out better, I think respect for the Storting had gotten bigger, the interest had increased, and we had – not least – a bigger activity among young people because the political divisions had become much clearer. I tried in my post to clarify taxes by ability, which I am very proud of. We were taxed according to our ability in the early 1880s, and it was linked to taxes on income. It was linked to the income tax. When you have income, you as a person have the opportunity to tax the income you actually receive. The system was supplemented by the introduction of taxes on wealth in such a way that it was considered appropriate to tax the non-unemployment income of wealth in addition to a certain amount in the form of a property tax, i.e. not the wealth itself, but the return on wealth, which is a non-unemployment income. The amount of the deduction at that time was in the order of magnitude that a wealth less than three to four times what was gross income at that time was considered to be what one should have — or stimulate to have — so that one could thus be a greater authority as a human being, in the sense that one could deal with the economic situations in which one came up. These are important principles even today. We can discuss sizes because the welfare community is very different from that at the time. But what is the ideological line of the Progress Party? We know: no property taxes, no property taxes and no taxes on accumulated values. No Western country, as far as I know, has such a system. I would like to know which countries practice that system. And then the income tax: Is it so that the Progress Party is still on large deductions, flat tax and no deductions in income, among other things. for commuters? Can a person clarify the point of view of the Advance Party so that young people can see it and thus choose the parties that are best placed to meet the challenges of the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1160	As the representative, Lundtigen, I also greatly appreciate people, bigots representatives and anyone else who has a clear view of things, and who has the ability to express himself that way. But that's enough, and I've been a member of the Storting as a representative for many years, that magnificence representatives have a little bigger swirling than a government council in relation to the thoroughness of what is to be investigated, and the thoroughness of the proposals that are being submitted to the Stortinget. So I will probably reserve the right to be as sure as possible that the suggestions I make to the Stortinget are such that they tolerate the light of the day – of course – but can also be subjected to a good treatment in Stortinget. That's why I feel a need to think about, think about the suggestions to be made in this case. So it's that the legal certainty of a society is about a lot of things. Of course, it's about getting a fair and good and proper administration. Legal certainty is also – as I said in my post – about the right to have their case tried by the judiciary. And it also requires that, as a citizen of the country, you feel that you get thorough, good and fair treatment. In some cases it will take some time to deal with it. In some cases, where the legislation is clear and clear, one can say yes or no. It is also part of this, but then the questioner must be aware that the legislation is such that a get-yes or no in a clear and good way. In many cases one does not have to think about it for a long time to give such an answer as public authority. Finally, I would like to stress that the tax haven – as I said – is doing a good and thorough job and contributes to people's great upsurge in the tax system. But then it will always be the way – as the representative Lundtägen was involved in his post – that there is quite a fundamentally different view of taxation and taxation between the Progress Party and most of the other parties in the hall. There is also reason to recall that the origin of the Progress Party was a larger meeting in a cinema room in Oslo in the 1970s that had one important purpose, and there was a fight against the tax level in Norway, plus-minus, in different variants. So here, there's probably also a political dividing line that makes a difference, among other things. This debate we have today. But that's interesting enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1171	Instead, the Minister of Finance explained his good knowledge of the history of the Workers' Party. He has not been as good as to follow the history of the Progress Party. The party was founded on three factors: the fight against taxes, taxes and public intervention. It is still an important foundation for the Progress Party. I am pleased that the Council of State is now much more appropriate than he was in his original response to the committee. I also understand the need for a state council to feel safe. I feel quite certain that after the Council of State has become safe, most of the proposals contained in this document will certainly be promoted for Stortinget to be treated safely, safely and safely. There are several people who have tried to make this into a sort of debate on property taxes. It's not that, and I wasn't going to bite that bait. But I think it's a little special, especially when the representative Lundtegen drew himself to the large heights around this and in his previous post said that you should pay taxes according to your ability. When you have money to pay with, I think he used as an expression, you have to pay. The challenge of taxes on wealth is that you often have no money to pay with, because the wealth is tied up in companies and jobs. Then it becomes fast challenging. So it's kind of a treasure on ownership, and that's what a very unfavorable combination is. The Progress Party is not against paying taxes on dividends. It was actually the representative of Breen who made me take the floor. I have to admit that I have a little difficulty understanding this attack that concerns the black economy. If Breen has realized that the Progress Party defends black work in some way, I think the representative has not followed well in the hour. I also said in my post that it is important to establish the right tax on the right object, and to ensure tax morality. Both of these statements go in the direction that we naturally want to welcome the fight against the black economy. A lot has happened within that area. The tax base has become much more attractive to discover and reveal black economy. It is a work for which the Progress Party naturally supports. So when the representative Breen is trying to create the impression that my post earlier today would be a kind of defense for the black economy, I think the representative would like to read the record from what I said. There are no points to make such a statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1182	I think it has been a good debate. There were people who tried to cut out a little bit when it came to property taxes. It really doesn't belong in today's theme. I think we should note that in many ways we have a very good tax system, on which there is a broad consensus, and which works quite well. Then we might continue the debate around it that some parts of it that at least the Right thought were a settlement in 2006, have not been followed up by the removal of the property tax. But it belongs elsewhere. The Breen was concerned that most people are satisfied. It was just supposed to be missing, something else would have been a disaster. It just has to be at the bottom that most people obviously have to be satisfied with how they are treated. So the question is, how do you measure satisfaction? It could be that people are happy to let go of a lot of work on the bill, through the simplifications that are taking place. But it's also, of course, what I was about in the line exchange, actually a problem issue. Maybe you just get away from what you really don't want to get involved in, but you have a responsibility for anyway. There are quite a number of issues here that we should at least be aware of. The proposal is about what we do to those who are going outside and who are not being treated in a good way. That's where we wanted to have focus, and I think most people in and on their own have had it there. It's a little strange, really, that the Progress Party went so high on the track in some posts, because the government has actually come to meet the opposition by coming back to Stortinget with a case in an appropriate way. It should be taken on as a small saying – that this is where awareness has grown around the problem. Because you can't ignore the fact that it's a fairly broad and complex and challenging issue to go into. It'll come out in different directions when you start doing grips within such a system. I think Breen was right in saying that the amended proposals from the Progress Party illustrate that this might not be so simple. We also got that out in the hearing. But basically I want to repeat what I tried to say in the introduction talk. It's about power, and it's about the fact that the distribution of power between the taxpayer and society has to be roughly the same when you go into a question of dispute around the equation. These are competences and competences that are not used to reduce tax payers, and they are about controlling the process and giving similar opportunities to taxpayers to make demands on the Equation Service when one first has a conflict. I expect that the matter that will come to Stortinget will take over the whole range of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1195	Just briefly to the representative Breen, who was critical to me because I supported proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party. The Bar Association was critical of this very proposal, that was his argument. I just want to take the opportunity to praise the Minister of Finance because he was much more open in the lines we had here, and would look at this as well. There have been many tragic fates in the wake of this. I look forward to the continuation and will follow this closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1200	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3374]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1216	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1225	First, I would like to commend the proposers for taking a positive initiative and sketching out possible solutions in an area in which the whole committee is involved. The Committee agrees with the proposers that the financial crisis has had historical proportions and that the crisis was the strongest in the world economy since World War II. The financial crisis also showed us how vulnerable banks are to disruptions in the money and capital markets, and that problems in the banking sector can easily have a negative impact on the economy in general. The financial crisis was met by strong global crisis packages. In Norway, government helped to mitigate the crisis through an expansive monetary and financial policy that maintained demand for goods and services. And Norway managed very well through the financial crisis with a small decline in production and a small increase in unemployment. We cannot say if many other countries – the financial crisis was followed by a debt crisis in those countries that had saved the financial sector through powerful crisis packages. Still, there is great uncertainty and uncertainty about the economy of many countries, and we see almost every day examples of how ordinary people now pay a high price for the rescue operation through unemployment, poorer welfare services and a lower private economy. We therefore see the need for strict international regulation of financial markets, so that crises do not occur. Norway has a regulation of financial markets that proved to be very favourable in the context of the international financial crisis. But we have an open and small economy, and it is therefore crucial for our interests that we have solid financial systems globally. The Committee points out that there is a major international effort to develop good enough regulation and supervision legislation for banks. Work focuses on the development of standards and recommendations on capital, liquidity and supervision requirements. Work carried out internationally will have an impact on Norway by incorporating amendments to EU financial legislation into the EEA Agreement. It is therefore essential that Norway contribute to the work on new rules, so that our experience of financial market regulation is heard when new international legislation is to be developed. The Committee has registered that regulatory changes have already been initiated in the Banking Act and in the case of information measures. We also received the end of the Financial Crisis Committee on 25 January, which proposes a number of measures to further develop financial market regulation in Norway. The Committee makes an important contribution to understanding the international financial crisis and the results of the crisis in Norway. It underlines the importance of keeping the economy in order and the importance of sound regulation, strong supervision and international cooperation in order to avoid new crises in the financial sector. Among other things, the sample highlights increased Nordic cooperation to regulate the financial market, including cooperation on stricter capital and liquidity requirements vis-à-vis banks, and specific requirements for systemic financial institutions. The Committee also proposes that the tax system should complement financial market regulation and contribute to more financial stability. In this context, the sample proposes the introduction of a tax — activity tax — on the profits and wages of financial institutions in order to tax added value generated in the financial sector. The selection is also concerned with consumer protection in the financial market. I think that is very positive, because it is sometimes difficult for consumers to understand the products offered. The Minister of Finance, when presenting the selection, said that he would follow the sample quickly and that the various measures would be assessed. We have also registered that the Minister of Finance in his letter to the Committee says that the proposals of the Christian People's Party take on board elements that are discussed both nationally and internationally. The majority of the Committee points out that, in the light of the work being done at national and international level, proposals for changes will be made in the usual way to secure us against a new financial crisis. The proposals of the Christian People's Party will be one of several inputs in this context, and the majority propose that the proposals be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1248	Let me thank the President-in-Office for a good review of the Committee's position. Let me also praise the Christian People's Party to promote this proposal. As regards the level of regulation in Norway in the banking and financial sectors, the Stortinget has been unanimous, both before the financial crisis, during the financial crisis and also now when we are discussing new regulations, possibly the need for new regulations, after what happened in 2008. At the same time, many of these proposals that the Christian People's Party is now promoting believe that the Progress Party is important, and many of them are clearly also right to look at. But it is incredibly important for the Progress Party – and I believe that it also applies to the entire Committee – that when you are going to go to a level of regulation, you also have to look at the level of regulation in Europe and elsewhere. It is that if our banking and financial industries are to have a good future here in Norway, we must also ensure that we do not get so tough regulation here that they become tougher and tougher than in the countries and markets we compete against. There is a lot of good work done. Much work has been initiated internationally through various international organisations. This work will be followed up, not least. because we are obliged to look at this through the EEA Agreement. After all, the financial crisis committee that was set up has also promoted its position, and it has certainly been clear to the Minister of Finance to be followed up in an appropriate manner. At the same time, a lot of work is done in the Banking Committee and other committees working on these measures. That is why the conclusion of the Progress Party has been that it is quite natural that, when a matter comes up from the government, we should see this together, how this should be followed up. I have great faith that much of what the proposals of the Christian People's Party take up will also be able to reach a unanimous conclusion in the Stortinget. In relation to the position presented, I would just like to refer to a part of the comment that the Progress Party is in, and it is on page 3, where we write: ‘Maintaining a well-functioning banking and financial industry is central to Norway’s well-being. It is therefore important to keep a constant focus on regulation of the sector, but it should not be forgotten that new regulation can cost in terms of efficiency. Unilateral regulation by Norway may have unintended effects in terms of weakening the ability of Norwegian banks to compete with their foreign competitors, thus increasing the risk of more funding for Norwegian value creation being transferred to operators and markets with lower regulatory requirements.’ This is precisely why the Progress Party believes it is right that we see the proposals of the Christian People's Party in the context of what is now being done in Europe and in the world, also linked to the proposals of the Committee on Finance, before we finally take a position on the possible new needs for new regulation in the wake of the financial crisis. Therefore, our conclusion is that we are attaching this proposal to the protocol, and will come back to it and look at it more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1266	The financial crisis showed how vulnerable we are in a globalised world, and that bubbles in the economy can have major consequences for people's jobs in a globalised world. At the same time, I would like to use the opportunity to recall that globalisation and international trade have contributed to raising hundreds of millions out of poverty, and that the market economy and international trade have not been given the shot for the bow that the left-hand side hoped for in the context of the financial crisis. On the contrary, we see that the world is now gathering on a discussion of new guidelines to ensure international trade and competition as an important tool to lift the world out of the financial crisis and ensure both jobs and security. I remember that SV stood on this pulpit and claimed that the financial crisis would be for capitalism what the fall of the Wall was for communism. Some years after the financial crisis, we can see that the left-hand side was wrong again. At the same time, I would like to stress that international driving rules and regulation are also an important part of an international market economy and a globalised economy. When the economy is globalised, policy must also follow. I think that's one of the most important lessons of the financial crisis. Norwegian financial markets, our banks, have been successful in the financial crisis. This is because we have a well-regulated market and we have good oversight. Therefore, the Right does not see any reason for us to speed up a new and further regulation of the Norwegian market. However, I think that the Christian People's Party's input is positive because it is absolutely necessary that we discuss through whether the Norwegian market is properly regulated. But even more important is the international debate that is now going through the IMF, through Basel III, and not least through the large market we are part of in the EU, and it is the international regulations that are important. Finally, let me also underline another aspect that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left stress in this position, namely that the banking and financial markets also reflect on the rest of the economy. That means that we should not have a one-sided focus on the banking and financial markets. We also need to look at how the economy is interconnected, whether it is healthy economic growth, whether it is a good balance between public and private, whether it is a good balance also in terms of saving and growth in the economy. We value the recordings made by the Christian People's Party, and believe that they will be able to be evaluated in a wider context when the government comes back with its assessment of the position of the Committee on Financial Crisis, and not least when we are eventually given proposals on the table as a result of EU assessments, and the international assessments, which are now made by the regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1283	I would also like to start by giving tribute to the proposers. This is a very important input into a work being done by the government, namely the follow-up to the Financial Crisis Committee's report, but also initiatives taken in the run-up to it in the light of the financial crisis that has struck the world in a dramatic way, and also in part over our own country in a serious way. It must be disappointing for Mr Tybring-Gjedde to hear that we are going to continue working on these proposals. Now Tybring-Gjedde isn't here right now, but I think it might be an advantage that we see these things in context, and then hope for understanding from the Christian People's Party for that to be done. I can at least promise from the SV that we are going to have an offensive approach to precisely these issues, because there is a clear need for a new and more offensive approach to the financial sector, which has to a great extent been allowed to operate freely at low risk, especially globally. In Norway, we have been far enough foresaw to take some action against the financial sector, which I must say has not always been received with the same enthusiasm, but which has nevertheless come into place, and which has saved parts of this sector from being hit harder than they would otherwise have been as a result of this crisis. But as Bent Sofus Tranøy, who was in the Financial Crisis Committee, points out, the financial sector has been systematically satisfied with other industries, for no reasonable reason, as he says. Firstly, they've released VAT, and secondly, they've obviously escaped some risk. As the financial crisis so clearly showed, they have run their business according to principle: coins, I win; crowns, the state loses. Or another way of saying, if you go out with a win, it's going to happen to the individual, while the losses have to be socialized, so the community has to take on these losses. It's clear that there's also some of the background to the social unrest and the uprisings that we see in a lot of countries around us. This is because very many people react strongly to the fact that they have to pay the price of a crisis created by a sector that has largely escaped regulation, and to a large extent has also escaped paying to the community. So a few of the proposals that have come from the Financial Crisis Committee are well worth looking at, namely this with a stability tax and not least an activity tax. I'm amazed that the Left when the Financial Crisis Committee made its recommendations, on their websites quickly distanced themselves from exactly these proposals, because they thought this would be to impose a special industry tax. We see the exact opposite. We see that in that case this would help make the finance industry a part of society, so to speak, where they also have to be involved and contribute in the same way that everyone else has to. In addition, it is also very important to ensure that we avoid new bubbles and new crises. How we regulate this industry, and what kind of contribution they will make to the community, will help prepare the basis for how they will act in the future. We're not going to take for granted that you've learned from all of your mistakes, but we're going to help. And then I also want to finally bring forward a relationship that is very important for how this goes on: social differences and inequalities in the world. Then I want to say it very directly: today, the three richest people in the world earn as much as the 500 million poorest people in the world. We believe that to be deeply unfair. But in addition, it's dangerous if it develops like this that we get a super-rich elite that just gets richer and richer, but they don't know exactly where to put their money, and uses innovative grips and puts money into new structured products or whatever it is, which can also contribute to new bubbles, and which goes directly beyond the ordinary consumer and the individual. So here it's enough to get hold of, and we're looking forward to the debates further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1303	I would also like to thank the representatives for their proposals. The international crisis, the financial crisis, is the result of political changes over the past 25 years. Fortunately, national states had muscles to ensure that the financial sector was saved from a massive collapse. There are few people who are aware of what kind of collapse would happen. From a competent point of view, it has been said to me that 20 to 25 of the largest financial corporations in the world would have gone bankrupt with reasonable certainty. We can only imagine what would result when we saw the effect of one major bankruptcy in the United States. The International Monetary Fund has a significant responsibility for the crisis. It has a considerable responsibility because it has been based on an ideology of free flow of capital for the past 25 years. This will mean a significant risk, and we know that it went wrong. Today, there is a basis for a new ideology, from the free movement of capital to a positive attitude towards countries that, according to national circumstances, need to control national capital in cross-border financial transactions. We saw it in the crisis in Asia in the 1990s. Malaysia, when capital controls were put in place, was given a significant signal from the International Monetary Fund, while the International Monetary Fund has now accepted capital control in connection with the package given to Iceland. So there's progress on this point, and it's important that Norwegian authorities have a big and good discussion about this, so that we can get to a different course. Norway is, as many have been involved, less affected. Some have said that we have such good systems. Yes, we probably have better systems than others, but we may also be a small country on the outskirts of Europe and thus have had a inertia in adapting to the speculation that has been more widely present elsewhere. I think there are a lot of people in the political and economic environment in Norway who want to adapt to international trends in a rather blue-eyed way. The Financial Crisis Committee was set up on 19 June 2009. We got the position NOU 2011:1 Better equipped against financial crises on 25 January this year, and we were then given a good basis to discuss this further. One of the major international issues in this area is the issue of the so-called Too big to fail, which is so crucial that governments cannot let them go over the edge. The Bank for International Settlement in Basel, Switzerland, does a lot of work in system changes related to this, so that risks can be reduced. I say "reduce" risk. Banking risks will continue to exist and banks will always be likely to go bankrupt, as elsewhere. But we're talking about reduced risk. The big banks today have an implicit state guarantee against going over the end, and the Financial Crisis Committee has estimated that the value of our largest bank, DnB NOR, is in the order of DKK 1 to 4 billion per year, a significant figure, an important information that must go out to the Norwegian people. On page 173 of the adjustment, stability charge, a stability charge, which is thus government-determined, to be set in such a way as to change the behaviour of banks, changes the behaviour towards less risky activities towards basic banking services, so-called ‘core banking’. So it's a government fee. It has its weaknesses. Therefore, a more market-based system should be discussed, where a price so that it becomes a greater degree of automation. The Banking Act may then be amended in such a way that, in the event of bankruptcy or an agreement, the bank's equity is affected first, secondly, by ordinary borrowing and finally by deposits. It could be an option that it's important to discuss. VAT on financial services is also, of course, an important issue. It must be in line with the basis of the government, namely to ensure a broad tax base. It's not impossible, as far as I know, to implement it today with the computer systems you have. That is why I hope to be thoroughly discussed in the discussion of the Committee on Financial Crisis's suspension.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1326	Thank you to the President-in-Office for the work that has been done. I record that most of the parties will – now I quote Leirstein – ‘look at it more closely’. I record that the Progress Party also occasionally needs to look more closely at some proposals before they are adopted. Several others have said the same thing. We're taking that positive. The financial crisis we've been through has historical proportions. It became the strongest decline in the world economy since the depression of the 1930s. It has been met with a global coordination of fiscal policies, some of which were involved, among others. in the form of expansive public budgets, which are quite unique in the modern economic history of the world. Although Norwegian banks now have relatively good access to finance in the money and credit markets, the international situation remains uncertain. This is particularly true of the euro zone. The crisis has shown that society’s interests are not always best served when individuals are guided by their own interests in so-called free markets. Norway was relatively well hit by the financial crisis. This is not least because we had learned from the banking crisis we experienced in the 1990s – we had established a relatively strict code – and our solid state finances. But we can also get better. One of the most central lessons of the financial crisis and one of the most important proposals we are making today is that the behaviour of banks needs to be better adapted to the risks involved. If the banks think they will be saved by the authorities if it goes wrong, it will also affect their willingness to perhaps take too much risk. In order to avoid such a risk, crisis resolution systems must ensure that those who have contributed to the risk-taking must be those who also bear the losses, not the inhabitants or the country. As a result, banks will also take less risk. The likelihood of bubble formation in the economy, with subsequent crises, will be reduced accordingly. The Basel Committee will introduce higher capital and liquidity requirements in order to improve the capacity of banks to face new crises. In order to prevent banks from tightening up their lending while growth is weak in many countries, this shall be gradual from 2013 to 2019. It's a long time to wait, said Governor Øystein Olsen in his recent year, as the banks in this country are going well. He therefore believed, as in one of the proposals we are making today, that we, together with our Nordic neighbours, should go ahead and introduce stricter rules. After all, Norway’s strict banking legislation has proved to be a strength, not a weakness, for the same banks. The high socio-economic and social costs of financial crises and the need to limit excessive risk-taking also make it appropriate to look at how we tax the financial industry. The International Monetary Fund, the IMF, in its report to the G20 Group, recently proposes a separate tax on the sum of profits and salaries of financial institutions. This we think is a proposal it is well worth looking at. The rest of business has to pay VAT, while a relatively strong financial industry has VAT exemptions. It's a paradox. We can look at an activity tax on profits and wages in the financial industry to compensate for this situation, also to ensure that the industry does not become too large and does not take too much risk. I can add as a small suggestion: we are discussing the tax on wealth right as it is in this Chamber. We did that in one of the previous debates. Maybe we'll look at switching such a tax with the wealth tax on taxing the active ownership. I think that might be an interesting thought. I also hope the government will assess it in what they have now said that they will follow up from the Financial Crisis Committee. We meet the proposals made by the government at the end of the day, when – as Leirstein said – one has thought carefully. I'll mention our suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1352	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1355	First, thank you to the rapporteur for a very balanced presentation of this matter. We can all be pleased that Norway has been through the financial crisis much better than most countries. It's because of a number of relationships. This is because, at the beginning, we were better equipped to meet the crisis – not least government finance. This is because an overall political environment quickly realized the seriousness of the situation, and through dialogue and rapid decisions in the United Kingdom, we jointly made sure to meet the crisis through political decisions and by using the necessary political tools. And this is not least because very many political regulation of the banking and financial industries were already in place. So, of course, the question is, is there something we can learn from the crisis? Is there a need for unilateral action in Norway to be better rusted next time? One of the key prerequisites for a well-functioning and dynamic market economy is that overall economic policy is stabilising over time. It is not possible, nor desirable, to try to remove all economic movements. It's normal for the economy to fluctuate slightly as a result of normal cyclical waves. The point of a stabilising policy is primarily to mitigate the most serious fluctuations and, in particular, to reduce the risk of deep and long-term crises. I want to point out some principles that are important to the Left. Firstly, it is important that the mandate of the Bank of Norway can also involve monetary policy measures that can counteract strong speculative bubbles associated with securities, dwellings and properties. Secondly, regulation of banks and the soundness and ability of other financial corporations to withstand cyclical fluctuations must be sufficiently robust and comprehensive and should be designed to countercyclical and thereby stabilise over time. Thirdly, budgetary policy must be based on the rule of action, which will help to create a predictable fiscal policy. In this way, the country’s financial robustness is also supported. Fourth, Norway must actively contribute to the building and further development of key institutions in international trade, financial and monetary systems, which are legitimate and effective, as many have experienced here today. Finally, open markets are best ensured through fair playing rules, neutral regulation and the freest possible competition at local, national and international level. It is important to be leading was and not believe that we have so much money on the book that we in any case solve future crises. In this way, this proposal by the Christian People's Party is an important reminder. Finally, a small visit to the representative of Thorkildsen. It is not that if one imposes a VAT-like tax system on the financial sector, it automatically means that it contributes to the Community. This means that the service is becoming more expensive for the user, and costs are often passed on to the customer. We saw that, for example. the introduction of VAT on sport tickets.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1384	I think it has been such a good day in Stortinget. I also think that it underlines in a way the role of the political debate, both to be able to shed light on things, to develop views and as a basis for getting things further when both thinking and thinking about. The matter that is now on the wallpaper is a big deal. It is not possible in a short article to get into all the sides of it, but I will get into a few points. What we see is that a new challenge is the development of what one can call international capitalism and international capital movements, combined with the new information technology, which means that in the past one might be able to deal with a crisis within the borders of the nation state, to a much greater extent both must prevent and deal with crises in a larger international context. That is also why this matter is on the agenda, not only in the United Kingdom, but in Europe, in the International Monetary Fund and in many other international contexts. Norway, as a major capital exporter, is dependent on well-functioning, open, transparent and robust capital markets. That's also why we from Norway have been and are active in different contexts in this way. Then it is also that control, supervision and capital requirements are an important part of the job that needs to be done in the future. At the same time, I think that the most important prevention work is being done at political level – what kind of policy is being pursued, and of course, also, as the representative of Syversen was involved, the behaviour of the financial industry and financial institutions. So preventing and preventing future crises – I'm not sure if we can do it fully, but we can at least get better at it, and of course we also need to take on learning from the crises we've had in the past. Here, there are some common features. An important common feature of a number of crises is the driving force behind getting own profits at the risk of others, and is in a way a very central learning activity in this regard. In the wake of the Norwegian banking crisis in the early 1990s, Norway did a lot on the legislative side. One of the most important steps we have taken on the legislative side was the setting up of the Banking Commission, which has contributed continuously for almost 20 years to both making proposals and making legislation better and more important. Then there is also an important consideration in relation to Norwegian financial institutions and that is to balance soundness against other considerations. Such consideration is, for example: competition with other financial institutions and international competition, of which our banks and financial institutions are also part. There are many new elements that are now being proposed in the EU’s soundness legislation. The financial crisis committee, which we have had in Norway, has also pointed to a wide range of measures that will require legislative changes. I can confirm that we're looking at the possibility now to phase in these rules in a faster way, among other things. In cooperation with our Nordic colleagues, to get a Nordic approach to some of these issues. The European Commission has consulted a new framework for crisis management in the financial sector. The proposal for a directive is scheduled to come in the spring. By letter of 18 March this year to the European Commission, we have commented on the consultation of the European Commission on the framework for crisis management in the banking sector. As regards the need for regulatory changes in the Banking Act, the Ministry of Finance gave a mandate to the Banking Law Commission in June 2009 to review the applicable law. The Banking Law Commission intends to present a proposal for amendments to the Banking Insurance Act based on the above as part of the overall work carried out by the Banking Law Commission. In conclusion, I would like to say that the proposals now promoted by the Christian People's Party take on elements that both the international and the national work on. Some have been covered by the mandates sent to the Banking Law Commission. Other issues will be addressed at the end of the consultation and the submission of cases to the Storting in the light of the work of the Committee on Financial Crisis. They will then be promoted to the Storting in the usual way, so there will be a rich opportunity to come back here on a later occasion too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1410	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1413	I note that the Minister of Finance, like the Committee on Finance Crisis, points out that Norway, together with other Nordic countries, can implement Basel III and other regulations faster than what is otherwise provided for internationally. In that I suppose there is a recognition that there are limits to how many horse heads we can and should lie in front of others, before we risk pouring – I kept saying – the child out with the bath water, namely that a healthy banking system loses in competition with others, which are not so well regulated. My question to the Minister of Finance is how the Minister of Finance assesses the realism that Norway can bring with it EU countries such as Sweden, Denmark and Finland in a faster implementation. The second question is: If they are not included, will Norway still go alone in a faster implementation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1420	As I said, there is now a quite active work in the European Union, with various proposals in this area. Among other things, so far I think there are ten EU countries that have looked at the possibility of introducing an activity tax as part of the post-market growth of the financial crisis. It shows in a way that there is still a great deal of willingness and ability in the EU system to make proposals in this area. We will take an initiative towards our Nordic colleagues, and then time will show whether they are willing and interested in taking a step ahead. If this is not the case, we have to assess it on our own in Norway, but it will be based on the fact that we also have to look at the competitive situation of Norwegian financial institutions, given how far we go and can go in imposing specific requirements on Norwegian financial industry. But throughout, I think it is actually such that there is also an international high level of confidence in the Norwegian financial industry, which can be a competitive advantage, so that is two sides of this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1427	I think it was an uplifting contribution from the Minister of Finance, and I understand the balancing that must take place. It was just supposed to be missing. Then I want to challenge the Council of State on a more fundamental basis – in terms of what he now referred to as an activity tax. It also needs to be seen in the context of what other countries do. But it is true that the financial industry, to say the least, is getting away quite cheaply from today's VAT regime. My question is on principle: Does the Minister of Finance and the Government believe that there is a basis for looking at a change in that regime? And – if he does: can he imagine switching it into other reliefs for Norwegian business?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1436	A little bit in the extension of the response to the reply from the representative Sanner: if you look at the period following the Norwegian financial crisis, before we got the financial crisis internationally, it is enough that Norway was at the forefront in some areas, for example. in the case of control and supervision. So it is possible to have good rules that are not necessarily synchronised with other countries. As I said, in terms of the activity tax, it is a work that is now taking place in the EU. I do not know the final outcome, but at least it opens up interesting possibilities in the Norwegian context. Then it's worth pointing out that in Norway we have the Insurance Fund, and the banks pay a fee to the Insurance Fund, as at the moment. is on approx. 20 B.C.E. kr, which does not correspond to other countries, so we have to look at the total balance sheet. As regards the possibility of exchanging or exchanging a possible tax on the financial industry in relation to other taxes and taxes on business, it is an interesting idea, but I get to use a familiar expression from the debate here: we get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1447	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 3375]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1467	This is probably the worst debate I've taken the initiative on – a very serious topic, with cruel stories, but also a theme that shows some of the best that can live in people, just getting a commitment and an opportunity to help people. We've seen an area of war over many years, with bottomless despair and how many women and children are affected. But we've also seen hope and commitment, and we've seen that countries have gone ahead with good examples. Last night, when I prepared for this interpellation debate, I saw a documentary on TV from Congo. It was found that since 1996, several wars have been waging in the Congo. The country has 30,000 soldiers in its national army. In addition, they have 50,000 soldiers in up to 60 different armed groups. Hundreds of thousands of women and girls have been raped. Several of the soldiers in the militia have systematically used rape as a weapon of war. One of the former soldiers who was part of the documentary, who in retrospect became violent with bad memories and torments after what he had been on, said himself that we were like beasts. That documentary showed in an excellent way what is going on in the mind of those who are doing the abuses. One of those who have noticed the war strategy on the body is three-year-old Furaha, whose name means joy. The night of October 16th, 2008, what is going to affect the rest of her life. Together with her mother and father, she was sleeping in a shed in the Mugungua refugee camp in eastern Congo. That's when the mother hears that soldiers enter the camp and enter their shed. The mother manages to escape screaming out into the woods, while the soldiers shoot wildly into the room where the family is lying. It's only after two hours that she's awake back. Then she finds her husband killed, and the child lies in a blood pool. The child's womb is completely destroyed. The rest of the night the mother tries to sleep next to her dead husband and with three-year-old Furaha, who bleeds from the abdomen, on the other side. Early the next morning, the mother leaves her dead husband and takes her daughter on a 20-kilometre journey to the city of Goma and the women's centre, where she and the child can get help. The trip must take them on foot through the forest, where it is crawling with guerrillas. Well promoted at the women's centre of Mama Jeanette, which is supported by the Norwegian U.D. and the Norwegian organisation CRN, the child gets final help. Vesle Furaha is far from alone to be raped in the eastern Congo. This is a serious story – a terrible, cruel story. Anne Kristin Sydnes, head of foreign affairs in the Church's Emergency Aid, says the following: ‘Peace is necessary to bring an end to the rapes. But while we are working for peace, systematic protection of the civilian population must be given priority. Massive, collective rapes, where women's remains are being destroyed, are being used as weapons. The armed groups use the exodus, among other things, to scare people away from territories and territories rich in minerals. If the mineral trade is brought under control, we can have peace. The world cannot afford to give up.’ Congo is a country that is very rich in minerals that we use in mobile phones, PCs, DVD players and other electronics that we surround ourselves with every day. Part of the warring groups in the Congo and neighbouring countries finance their warfare by extracting and selling these minerals, and thus there is a link between the mineral wealth and the suffering suffered by women and children. Several documentaries have shown just this context in recent years. My interpellation is therefore about what we can do nationally and internationally, but not least about what we can do as consumers, and in particular the company's own social responsibility. Last year, more from the Stortinget were visiting the United Nations. There we met, among others. The new UN guard for Resolution 1325, Margot Wallström. It was a strong meeting with gloomy undertones, but also a meeting marked by hope. There are no simple solutions to such a comprehensive problem as what we see in Congo. Wide-ranging efforts are required in several fields, and not least international communities are required. The problems associated with mineral deposits and the numerous rapes are primarily a symptom of an even more extensive problem in the wake of the many wars that have led the Congo. The success of Norway at the top of the world over the best countries to live in is mainly due to the ability to ensure that community values are managed by the community and benefit the community. We want the same thing to happen with regard to mineral deposits in other countries, including Congo. Therefore, we must be very careful when looking for measures to stop the terrible situation of many Congolese people. In fact, it can quickly be that good things are best done to the enemy, that actions that are tempting – because then we show action – are proving to exacerbate the situation for many. In a recent report, funded by the UK authorities, Nicholas Garrett from Resource Consulting Services shows that such measures as bans and boycotts will be of little use and directly harmful. Garrett believes that a stop or a break in trade with tin and coltan will hit the weakest and could lead to a further escalation of the conflict. He wants a more proactive work, to gradually gain more official control over the illegal part of the mineral trade. In that case, all parties must be encouraged to participate and not withdraw. In fact, it is mainly a lack of governance in the Eastern Congo that allows local military groups to exploit the local population in the way we see it. First of all, they must put in place a well-functioning steering system in the Congo. In the documentary I was watching yesterday, they showed how big a challenge it is to assemble and build a serious, well-functioning national army. Many of the soldiers come from just armed groups and have been involved in rapes. Some men in fact stated that they would not be plagued with such questions as the army would disclose its work against rape. Congo, Rwanda and Uganda should be forced to take control of and disarm their militias. The UN should strengthen the mandate of its presence in order to protect the civilian population. The EU and the United States should contribute to the financing of the construction and training of a police force with a high proportion of women who can protect the civilian population. I want to pay great tribute to the volunteer organizations CARE, the Refugee Aid, the Church's Emergency Aid and the Joint Council for Africa, etc., who have worked for many years to better monitor the origins of minerals used in Western consumer goods. They want international tracking mechanisms for minerals, especially coltan, as they believe that this must include companies that buy and further develop coltan. An international tracking mechanism with the UN at the head is absolutely necessary to achieve long-term peace in the country, says CARE. We have seen in the past, in the so-called Kimberley process, that legislation was put in place to break the link between trade in rough diamonds and armed conflicts, just after pressure from grassroots and non-governmental organisations across borders. We should be able to get something similar here. The United States has shown that it's possible to do something. The UN contributes, and we need more countries that go ahead. The Norwegian Government is already playing a crucial role in the issue of global mineral management through the support to the EITI. The EITI is working for more transparency and transparency in the mining and oil industry, including in the Congo. Norwegian organisations can play a crucial role in lobbying Western governments to improve public structures and reform of the security sector in Congo. We want Norway’s objective to be to put in place international rules and standards that ensure transparency and secure mechanisms for the detection of conflict minerals, and that Norway cooperates closely with, among others. The United States and the EU on this issue. The United States is about to have rules in place, and the EU is now assessing rules in the same direction. We also want us to work for a national regime in this area while we are working to put in place international legislation, and I want the government to look further at it. But as important as what we can do nationally and internationally, it is to point to the responsibility that we all have, especially the manufacturers of electronic products. I myself was not aware that the mobile phone I carry could contain minerals with such a story. I don't get an answer to that if I ask. I think that is reprehensible. We all have to make demands for manufacturers, and encourage manufacturers to tell us what they're putting in their cell phone products. I hope for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1512	Let me start by thanking Arild Stokkan-Grande for bringing up an extremely important theme. World society is struggling with a lack of ability to concentrate on one crisis at a time -- one day it's Tunisia, the next day it's Egypt, then it's Japan, and then it's Libya, and now it's probably Côte d'Ivoire. Then the "sleeping crises", which lead to the loss of the lives of an incredible number of people, and to the atrocities portrayed by Stokkan-Grande, will have been easy to be outside the radar and without it being about them. It's hardly anywhere the human suffering in the last ten to fifteen years has been bigger than in Congo. It's an extreme case of rape on a massive scale, which I don't think we've had anywhere else. On the one hand, unfathomable suffering, and on the other hand, a great courage from people who are fighting this. Congo is at all in an international context the perhaps strongest example of human suffering. Half of the population was eradicated under Belgian rule in the 1800s. When the country was independent, it had almost nothing. Mobutu became a fast dictator and exploited the country in a corrupt and disgusting way. Then the civil war in Rwanda took place in the years after 1994, creating what many have called Africa's First World War – the first great African war – where a series of powers interfered on both sides. The connection between these atrocities and minerals is very strong. I believe the one who has expressed it most strongly is the father of today's President Kabila, Laurent Kabila. He once said that everything that is needed to take power in Congo is $5,000 and a cell phone. The 5,000 dollars are to buy a sufficient military capacity and strength to attack a mine, so take it and use your cell phone to make an agreement with an international company on the exploitation of the mine. Then you get enough money to expand your army, then you can go and take a new mine, and then you can multiply your military capacity that way. It was an extreme statement, but it illustrates the link between military power in the Congo and mining, on which Stokkan-Grande was involved. To illustrate with personal experience how extreme the situation is in Congo, I can mention that the times I've been there, I know that when I land at the airport in Kinshasa, our Norwegian staff who are there will not be able to get the Congolese Ministry of Foreign Affairs to drive back to the city without paying the gas for the trip back. They hardly get them to call to make agreements in the city without filling up the phone card with new counter chalk. It is this combination of extreme poverty and significant corruption and mismanagement that, of course, makes these issues so difficult to deal with. Kinshasa is the African city, which at least I've been in, where you see at least clear progress, while there's great progress to see in cities like Addis Ababa or, in Congo's neighbouring country, Kigali. You don't see houses that are being refurbished in Kinshasa, you just see gradually decay. The most important thing we can do, of course, is get the Congo policy right, make sure that it becomes a national government that can keep control of the various militias. But this is easier said than done. Getting a good political development in Congo will solve many of the problems. Many of the militias in the eastern Congo are beyond central government control. In all our work for the two Northmen who are trapped in Kisangani, a continuing theme has been that the agreements we make with central government have no practical significance on the ground in Kisangani, simply because central government has no opportunity to assert itself there. The most important of these groups is the so-called FDLR, which is a continuation of those who committed the genocide in Rwanda in 1994 — the Hutu extremists there, who have invaded the Congo. Of course, there are very many new people who have arrived, and many old people who have disappeared, but it is a continuous continuation of the Hutu extremists who control parts of the eastern Congo. They control mining and keep it going as a pure military force, without any of what is called political goals. So you can't underestimate the background step for the interpellant taking up. Norway is a small country in Congo. It is next to Burma the largest country where Norway does not have an embassy. We're doing a good job trying to preserve the rainforests in Congo. Through the mission organisations and in other ways, we have helped to try to mitigate the conflicts between the FDLR and the central government, and to see in a way that we can stop the Hutu-extremist gilling business. But we're not a big player in Congo. With regard to the very connection between rape, mass killing, political mismanagement and the resources of the eastern Congo, it is a close link. But as the interpellant also says, it's not immediately easy to say what the solution is. What we have to do is we have a solution that makes the military groups that profit from this become disconnected. At the same time, this is a large flow of income for poor people in the Eastern Congo, who do not want to be, for example. shall be the boycott of Congo. It says at 16 pst. the Congolese have some form of income from the mining activity. So it's not a small and peripheral business. The US has implemented the so-called Dodd-Frank Act, i.e. the financial reform, where a number of other issues were also addressed. One of them was to ensure that listed companies should publish where the minerals they use originate. It is not a boycott of the Congo, but it is a requirement that these companies have a responsible and open trade chain. We will now work closely with the Americans, including with the EU, to look at the possibilities of implementing similar legislation in Norway. Let me stress again that what we have to do has to be open, transparent. There has to be responsible business on the part of companies, and we have to do what we can to ensure that the military groups do not get control of this business. But it would have the opposite effect of what you wanted – it also said the interpellant – if you were to boycott the Congo. Then, of course, illegal activity would continue. Illegal activity will be even safer under the control of various militias, while many poor people in one of the poorest areas in the world will become even poorer. So the way forward must go through a responsible business that is trying to ensure transparency around the business. In addition to this, let me say that Norway is working internationally on a number of other initiatives to ensure an open and responsible business. We presented a big message about corporate social responsibility last year, which brings up the responsibility of the Norwegian business community in such situations. We have been a driver of a series of international initiatives. The interpellant was involved in the so-called Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. They have a secretariat in Oslo, and Norway, together with the United Kingdom, was a proponent to get it going. It is one of many important initiatives to ensure transparency around oil and gas and around mining activities. We are working on various initiatives in the OECD. With regard to the Eastern Congo, we are part of an international working group together with the UN organisations, the World Bank and others to look at what measures the international community can take to ensure transparency and a proper use, as opposed to a wrong use, of the resources in the region. I visited the eastern Congo last year, I guess. Goma, as the interpellant was also inside, is one of the places I think makes the strongest impression on most. There is a contrast between the incredibly beautiful nature, the unimaginable vehementness – we are talking about among the most beautiful places on the globe at all – and the monstrous acts that have taken place in eastern Congo, and also in neighbouring Rwanda and Burundi. The eastern Congo, Rwanda and Burundi are close together, and are very densely populated, as opposed to the rest of the Congo. There is much closer interaction between eastern Congo and Rwanda and Burundi than there is to the central government that sits far away in Kinshasa. At the end of the day, the most important policy initiatives to resolve this will be the major policy initiatives. Any cooperation between Congo and neighbouring countries such as Rwanda is desirable. There has been a positive development in the last few years with cooperation between President Kagame in Rwanda and President Kabila in Congo. We must encourage this to continue, because we will not be able to solve this issue isolated from the larger policy in the area. So sum total: let's continue along several roads at the same time, both contributing to stability in Congo, contributing to a good relationship between Congo and neighbouring countries and getting the big political picture right, but in combination with looking at all the measures we can take to ensure that there is full transparency both around money flows and how resources develop in the Eastern Congo. So again, thank you to the interpellant for an important debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1546	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and not least for the commitment. This is a problem that shows to the greatest extent that there is a need for community – community within the Congo and not least an international community – to address the various issues across the board and in such a way that we do not create a worse situation for the many poor in the Congo, but that we are actually able to help and ensure that the minerals benefit the entire population and become a resource for further development. I am pleased that the Council of State signals a continued and even closer cooperation with the United States and the EU, and that legislation can be considered and assessed in Norway as well in such cooperation. I am also pleased that the Council of State, like me in my previous post, points out that much goes into having a responsible business that is conscious of its responsibility and ensures that trade in goods and minerals goes through safe and secure channels. The business community and manufacturers have a significant responsibility to ensure that consumers have the opportunity to make real choices, that they know what is in their mobile or electronic products, so as to make an informed and effective choice. I also believe that those economic operators who now take a social responsibility, and who clearly show what minerals they have in their products, will have a great competitive advantage over those companies that don't want to be open about what their products contain. It is also important, as the Council of State points out, that the situation in the Congo needs to be tackled widely. Then I would like to ask the Council of State how to follow up internationally in particular three things that Margot Wallström and several of the volunteers in the field are concerned about: How do you ensure that Congo, Rwanda and Uganda take control of and disarm their militias? How do you ensure and work that the mandate for peacekeeping operations actually secures the civilian population, and how will it be followed up? And how is work being done in relation to both financing and developing a police force that can also include many women who can take responsibility and protect the civilian population, but who can also meet the particular challenge women face in this region? It would have been nice to get the Council's views on this. I look forward to the further debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1555	Stokkan-Grande asked some concrete questions in the end. The first was what we can do to get the players in particular Congo and Rwanda, as the most important – but also Uganda and other countries – to take responsibility. I think the most important thing we can do there is have a continuous political dialogue with these. We meet them at different intersections and address these questions with the leaders there. It is not the case that the various militias are automatic under-use by the political leaders of the region. For example, President Kabila of Congo is probably in charge of the relatively limited ability to direct control of the various militias. This is a gigantic country. The Congolese normal military apparatus does not function in any way, so there is no obvious means of power for the President of the Congo to keep the militia out of control. It is just the gradual political consolidation of the country, which, of course, includes the creation of normal, military forces under democratic, political control, which can contribute to this over time. Some of the militias have probably been significantly influenced from both Rwanda and Uganda, and then political dialogue with these leaders is the most central. But of course, we must also reserve responsibility for people on whom we may have influence and how they act. The interpellant was also involved in corporate social responsibility. The international mobile industry is almost certainly an industry sensitive to customer policy assessments as well. It's a significantly image-driven industry, where being able to point to social responsibility, as opposed to being in the worst class, is an important advantage. There must be a requirement for all the large mobile operators to clarify how they extract their resources and go back into the chain. Now we're also going to give them the recognition that this is not an easy thing, but they have to account for the whole chain as far back to the mining business as possible to demonstrate that this has come in an acceptable way. But the goal must also be an acceptable way in Congo, not to say to push everyone to drive anywhere else, which would only make poor people in Congo probably even poorer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1564	My starting point in this interpellation is based on the idea: think globally, act locally! But first I'm going to comment a little bit on what the interpellant has already problematised. Congo, located in the heart of Africa, is a country rich in large natural resources. This country has throughout history been characterized by this wealth, a wealth that has been exploited and colonized by foreign powers. The wealth has also been the subject of occupations from neighbouring countries, and now the same natural resources are the background to abuse, killing and mass violence. Children, women and men are still under serious assault today. These people in East Congo are exposed to a brutal military strategy aimed at deterring the civilian population from rape and killing. These civilians have become a legitimate objective to secure access to and control of the country's natural resources. So it's a rather different form of imperialism and struggle for resources than what we've known before. The rapes are a cruel means, breaking up families and destroying communities, for the enrichment of the warlords in the country. The traumatisation of civil society is thus a grotesque part of the resource use in many of Congo's mines. So you can ask yourself how this is possible. I don't have all the answers to that, but I'll nevertheless venture on some considerations around it. If you put it a little bit on the verge, you could say that capitalism and the back of the market promote such a oppressive system. The demand for these goods thus enables this resource struggle. A simple causal solution may be that a stop to the demand for these minerals also removes the basis for the struggle for resources, which in turn put an end to the abuses on the civilians. But I don't think this is the magic formula for peace and reconciliation alone in Congo. This may also involve ethnic conflicts, which are also part of a complex conflict picture of contradictions and violence. Nevertheless, the demand for these minerals is pointed to as one of the most important germs of many of these attacks. The market for these minerals is large, and therefore, in my view, the capital that buys these commodities has a responsibility to remedy the situation. The sale of these minerals to various international companies that produce gold rings, cell phones, etc. helps to finance weapons and medicines for military forces in Congo, funds that in turn enable the abuses we see today. It is with this background that I believe that the use of capital must reverse this development. Capitalism and the allocation of capital are a good instrument for promoting peace and development. Norway is a good example of this, where our natural resources have laid the foundation for the development we have had of civil society. We can also contribute to this in Congo. We can show a solidarity of responsibility towards the civilian population, a solidarity of responsibility, which we can demonstrate by demanding product tracking to electronic companies, such as the United States. Apple and Nokia. As consumers, we should be responsible for the fact that the mobile phones we buy are not produced with metals from conflict mines. We can ask international companies that sell their products in Norway to document where the minerals in e.g. The PC is coming from. So we can also make sure that what we buy is not part of financing the violence in Congo. At the same time, through an active consumer policy, we can also say no to the products that come from conflict mines. But we can also introduce the mines that operate legally and that contribute to the positive development of civil society in Congo. That way, we give incentives to change the situation locally in Congo. We are then using the market and capital to promote positive development in Congo. In summary, I would like to point out what I said in the introduction – that we can change the situation in Congo by acting locally. Our consumer voice can change everyday life and create a better everyday life for those who are exploited, by showing international solidarity locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1585	Let me also thank the representative Stokkan-Grande for taking this serious and difficult matter up in Stortinget today. Conflict minerals are minerals extracted in a situation characterized by armed conflict and human rights violations, and in this case they are the so-called Democratic Republic of Congo, which I am now pleased to call me Congo. The minerals are partly extracted under the protection of forces belonging to the Congolese army, but also under the protection of or by a number of rebel groups which are partly in combat against each other. This helps to maintain the conflict in the country and the suffering of the local population. In many places, armed groups use extortion, forced recruitment and violence to control the movement of minerals. In Congo, there are huge natural resources. It is estimated that about 80 pst. of the occurrence of coltan in Congo, and 49 pst. of global cobalt resources and 10 pst. of the world's deposits of copper are to be found in Congo. In addition, there have been large deposits of gold and diamonds, and the struggle for these resources is merciless. In a world historical perspective, only the two world wars are passing over the war in Congo. More than 5.4 million people have been killed in the conflict since 1996, either as a direct consequence of armed acts or as a result of rape, assault, disease and famine. About 1 million people have become refugees in this conflict. But something is being done internationally to find ways to reduce the use of violence around mineral extraction. There are both legally binding legislation and voluntary mechanisms that regulate trade in and trade in conflict minerals. Internationally, the US Dodd-Frank Act on Conflict Minerals is, as the Council of State was also involved. This includes all companies reporting to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. The law was signed by President Obama on 21 July last year, and it is expected that the final regulations will be in place during April – this month – this year. This includes minerals originating from, or allegedly originating from, the Congo and nine countries nearby and includes reporting obligations for companies marketing such minerals. Other binding guidelines in this area are United Nations Security Council Resolution 1952 of 29 November last year, which extends, inter alia: The arms embargo against the Congo. This concerns the OECD Due Diligence Guidance and the Transparency initiative in the extractive industries – EITI – which was also the subject of the interpellant, which are voluntary mechanisms to provide ethical guidance for the industry. Congo is actually a candidate country for the EITI, and the EITI Governing Board stated last December that the Congo is close to meeting the membership requirements. The UK Government is working with international partners to help bring the natural resources of the Congo under legitimate democratic control so that resources can contribute to tax revenue to the Congolese state. The EU assesses the possibility of introducing the same requirements and guidelines as the United States under the so-called Dodd-Frank legislation. I had hoped that the Council of State here today could say that Norway is choosing to join the EU in this process. Here, extractive companies listed on American exchanges must publish what they pay to the countries concerned for the extraction and marketing of minerals. The extraction of conflict minerals in Congo is difficult to control. Another challenge is that measures must include not only the Congo but also neighbouring countries. In the Kimberley process involving conflict diamonds, it is possible to trace the chemical structure of individual diamonds. Unfortunately, this is not so easy for other materials, but a work is being done, not least in the Federal Institute of Earth Science and Natural Resources of Germany, to find techniques for creating so-called fingerprinting systems to identify minerals. But this is time- and cost-intensive. Therefore, the question put by Mr Stokkan-Grande is very relevant. There's a lot going on in this field in the world, but there's a long way left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1607	In the novel 'Heart of Darkness', by Polish-British writer Joseph Conrad, published in 1899, the author depicts some of the enormous abuses that took place in the Congo. The novel was strongly inspired by Conrad's own experience as a riverboat captain in Congo. Many today probably know better about the story of the 1979 film "Apocalypse Now!", where the script was based on "Heart of Darkness", but the story moved to the Vietnam War. Joseph Conrad's novel greatly contributed to raising the international opinion that led to the official Belgian takeover of the area. From 1885 until 1908, the Democratic Republic of Congo was ruled by King Leopold II of Belgium. The country then had the famous name Free State Congo, which otherwise suited very well to the enormous brutality that was used and demonstrated. The Private State of Congo was based on slavery, torture, terror and exchange. After the liberation of Belgian rule in 1960 and until the late 1970s, all the documents on King Leopold II and the mass murder of millions of people were secret. King Leopold himself justified despite all the acquisition of the Free State of Congo, for the rest of the world well to note, that the natives were to be civilized and that the slave trade that Muslims engaged in in Africa was to be eradicated. Under the leadership of Leopold, the local population suffered from a horror that forced them to collect raw materials, especially raw rubber, into the king's personal profit. The Democratic Republic of Congo gained its independence from Belgium in 1960, after the national elections were held in May of that year. The centre party NCE won the election, and Patrice Lumumba became the country's first democratically elected prime minister. After independence, an uprising immediately broke out in the army, and the mineral-rich province of Katanga was attempted to detach. The following year, Prime Minister Patrice Lumumba was executed by troops loyal to military commander Joseph Mobutu. In 1965 Mobutu took power, changed the name of the country to Zaire and took the name Mobutu Sese Sesko himself. While Lumumba was a nationalist and wanted to nationalize the mines, Mobutu Zaire turned into a stepping stone for operations against Soviet-supported Angola. He was rewarded with American support throughout the Cold War. Zaire himself became synonymous with corruption. Rarely has a state been so systematically plundered by its own leaders. Let me mention two other historically important events closer to the present. After the 1994 Rwandan genocide, a significant number of those responsible for the killings escaped at about 800000 ethnic tussiers and Hutu across the border of the Democratic Republic of Congo. Rwandan-supported insurgents cast President Mobutu Sese Seko after Congoese Interahamwe insurgents repeatedly attacked Rwanda from Congo. Laurent Kabila was appointed as a new leader, and the country was renamed Congo. That conflict was named the first war in Congo. The second war in Congo lasted from 1998 until a peace agreement was signed four years later. During this period the UN accused several high-ranking political and military officials from Rwanda, Uganda and Zimbabwe of exploiting their intervention in the Democratic Republic of Congo to plunder the huge mineral wealth there, especially diamonds. Just since 1998, about 5.4 million people have died. So too many people are still on the run because there are still new games. The most important export products in the Congo today are copper, diamonds, crude oil, coffee and rubber. This is also the essence of the country’s close history. People, both Europeans, locals, Americans and now Chinese people are trying — and have tried — to make themselves rich in the exploitation of natural resources. Many have done so, but every single time, the civilian population has been severely punished. This is largely a forgotten conflict. I took up the historical, just because history repeats itself. We must be able to learn from what has happened. It is commendable that the representative Stokkan-Grande takes this up, precisely because we have the opportunity to do something. Let me mention a couple of things. It is very important that the state of Congo has control over that entire Republic. It is very important that what comes out of the earth is taxed. It is very important that there be a judicial settlement after the genocide in Congo, and the military must exit, the militias must be under national control. The development of minerals such as coltan and others must take place in transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1628	I want to commend the interpellant for addressing this important topic. We were delegates to the UN General Assembly last year and experienced a great deal of commitment to the UN Millennium Goals and Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. That's what I want to focus on in relation to the question that the representative Stokkan-Grande is asking in the interpellation. It is now more than ten years since the UN countries adopted Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security. This resolution was the first to put women's situation in war and conflict and their ability to participate in peace building on the agenda, and recognised for the first time sexualized violence as a war strategy. But despite the decade anniversary of this resolution, progress is slow. At Global Open Day on Women, Peace and Security last year in the United Nations, we heard several strong reports about women's situation in war. There was also a strong emphasis on the need for equality between men and women in negotiations on peace and justice in the settlement of conflicts. Women are now little included in such negotiations and are also not represented in the subsequent political processes to rebuild countries. Violence and assault against women are used as weapons. It is therefore not only arms disarmament that is necessary after a conflict, but also legal settlement with the attackers. That's why it was a very positive and a very important signal to war invaders when a former leader of the FDLR was arrested in Paris last year, accused of war crimes and human rights violations. In order to strengthen efforts to promote equality and to strengthen the position of women in the world country, a new UN organisation called UN Women has been established. It's Michelle Bacheloret from Chile who runs this new organization. She was also very clear at a meeting of the Security Council on Resolution 1325: There have been enough reports, now it is time to get something done. I think she can contribute to it, but it's not on her. We in the Member States must also contribute, because it will not be possible to achieve all the UN's Millennium Goals without increasing equality and strengthening women's rights. Minister of Defence Grete Faremo attended this meeting and reported that Norway supports the establishment of UN Women and contributes financially to it. It is absolutely necessary if there are not to be ten new years before the resolution is followed up. In order to promote concrete action in this matter, with a focus on the Congo, it is important for the representative of Stokkan-Grande to address, to support the planned strategy of Minister of Foreign Affairs Hillary Clinton to clarify the link between human rights violations, armed groups, the extraction of conflict minerals and commercial products, and to ensure that the Norwegian market is not a market for conflict minerals and to look at how we can stop money transfers to offenders. Finally, in Moss, we are working on a project called Barnas Fredsworld in connection with the 1814 anniversary. Here, Marian Heyerdahl's women's rocket army is going to have its permanent exhibition space. This terracotta army beautifully illustrates women and children’s sufferings in war. We are working to allow the Centre to focus on UN Millennium Goals and Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security, among others. through this exhibition, through seminars and interactive global communication to put women, children, peace and security on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1641	In this debate we have been given some of the worst that can be aroused in man, but when we see the commitment, also some of the best that can be aroused in man. There's a lot of work done by non-governmental organizations, and personalities like Margot Wallström, Michelle Bacheloret and Hillary Clinton are also showing the way to hope. This as a reference to the fact that it is precisely the women, along with the children, who are the most vulnerable victims of war, and that it is precisely the women who are the most important to ensure peace, and not least to preserve peace. The situation for women and children in Congo is not a living thing. We can not only witness what is happening, but we must strive every day to contribute to peace and security – both internationally, nationally, through society-friendly companies and not least as consumers. I am pleased with the answers from the Council of State and the commitment of those who have been to the pulpit. I look forward to following the processes and cooperating with the United States and the EU. I will once again, as strongly as I can, urge to keep this matter warm, not to forget the many victims in Congo, and to put pressure on those who can ensure a recovery. Norway can play a significant role. Not least Norway has a special moral authority. We also experienced that when we visited the UN. That is why I am looking forward to the signals that the Council of State joined in this debate being further worked on and delivering results both in the form of closer cooperation internationally and by assessing its own national legislation in this area in order to ensure that the Norwegian market is also free from conflict minerals. When we were in the United Nations, we heard that it was precisely the United Nations that laid the foundation for our prosperity, that the Law of the Sea was established, and that this ensured national governance over the vast, huge wealth we have off our coast. We ourselves have been dependent on an international community to secure this right and to ensure that it benefits the community. Now it is our turn to ensure that other countries that are in the same situation, other countries that today need the help and contribution of the international community, are given the necessary help and not least given the responsibility to ensure the protection of their own citizens, especially as women and children. I thank you for the debate and look forward to the further work of the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1655	Thank you for a good debate, an important interpellation and good historical contributions. I cannot agree more with Skovholt Gitmark that King Leopold of Belgium was one of the most impersonal figures in world history. He himself was never in Congo, but helped kill millions of people through his policies. Congo is also one of the worst victims of the Cold War in Africa. While the Soviet Union lived in some countries, there is no doubt that the CIA had a finger in the game of the killing of Lumumba, which was the beginning of the whole, and kept Mobuto up as his cellar ring – as opposed to Soviet cellar rings in Africa – throughout the cold war, and let him plunder his country and not build it up. When it comes to what you can do, more people have been involved. Peter N. Myhre was in the Kimberley process. It's an imperfect, but successful example of what you've achieved in an area with respect to diamonds. I think you have to look for and try to get something similar for the so-called conflict metals. Even if you can't do perfect tracking, you're also getting far in tracking where they come from in terms of metals. This is an area where the technique has gone a lot ahead in recent years in terms of saying what is the source of different products. Of course, we won't stand outside what the EU or the United States had to do in this area, as Myhre suggested. We only want to engage in dialogue with the EU and the United States on what is right to do in recognising what Norway is doing in isolation is of limited importance. It can have some moral significance for us at home. What matters is what we do with others. And we want to get to a system where there is transparency about both cash flows and where the minerals come from. But I see that there is a very broad connection in Stortinget. The total solution has many elements. It starts with the big policy. The relationship between Rwanda, Congo and other regional conflicts is of great importance. You have to stabilize the Congo as a state. We need to disarm the military groups, especially the FDLR. There we work, among other things. Close to Pinsevennes Ytremission and Kåre Lode, who work for them, and who have been very close to diplomacy to see if we can get it done, with the Minister of Foreign Affairs and me as backers. And we support non-governmental organisations, which are doing an amazing job of meeting and helping individuals. Of course, the most important thing is to prevent women from being raped, but we also need to help those who become so, in the best possible way. The mandate of the peacekeeping force in Congo is too weak, but at the same time we must recognise that there are not many countries willing to send soldiers to the Congo to die, so the readiness of a United Nations force is not a simple matter. Gitmark was inside Conrad's novel, which I just would recommend everyone to read. Then we just have to avoid that there will be more Mr. Kurtzs in Congo in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1668	So the debate is on case No. 9 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1682	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1691	Motor travel in outland has been debated repeatedly in recent years, based on representative proposals from different parties. The Ministry’s lack of capacity or willingness to intervene in this matter is clearly demonstrated by the fact that the pilot project is still under way, ten to eleven years after its launch. In its reply to the Committee, the Ministry of the Environment refers to the Directorate of Natural Management's recommendation. In view of this, in June 2009 the government implemented some changes to the regulation for the use of motor vehicles in the open air and on the covered watercourses. Among other things, the use of motor vehicles in the transport of materials and equipment for off-road use was extended to group trips with snowmobiles for health and care establishments, etc. and for municipal emergency measures to reduce the risk of impact on elk and other deer by road or rail. The multi-territorial political platform states that the government will complete the review of the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses. This means that the government will assess the need for further adjustments or changes to existing legislation, in addition to what was implemented in 2009. There are two main issues that remain to be resolved: whether to open up for recreational driving south of North Troms and whether to establish a home in motorcycling in order to withdraw the local authorities’ possibility of exemption. Fortunately, the NINA reports can indicate a number of positive effects of the test project. In many municipalities, there has been less illegal driving, more taxi and tourism, less driving in the most vulnerable areas, better municipal planning and a stronger internal justice system in the scooter environment. The municipalities involved in the project have been able to establish both tourist loops and recreational loops. This has meant that both visitors and locals have had the opportunity to get into the field. In the case of a very controversial barrage, there is a broad political consensus that a very restrictive line exists there, which I feel is also the basis for the municipalities to avoid damage to nature. I myself visited the municipality of Fauske, which is one of the municipalities that have established a leopard, which is located in Sulitjelma. The recreational loop system has enabled the elderly and the disabled to get into the wild even in winter. Similarly, tourism businesses in municipalities have been able to offer their guests natural experiences on snowmobiles, as is possible for all Swedish and Finnish travel businesses. The test system was described as a clear success, and there were clear expectations that the system was permanent. Local management through planning and building laws works well and is a good and appropriate tool to use for motor travel in outland. In this way, politicians and residents become conscious of their use of land and nature, so that one avoids motor travel where nature is vulnerable, or where one does not want such movement. The Progress Party believes that all municipalities should be given the right to manage motorised travel in the outland by means of planning and building laws. This will increase the willingness of municipalities to carry out good municipal planning and monitoring of the most vulnerable natural areas, and will be able to take good care of all the interests associated with the management of motor travel in rural areas. The Progress Party also has proposals for legislative changes through Document 8:79 L for 2009-2010. The suggestions contained in this document are based on the positive experience gained from the pilot project. By basing these amendments, the government can save time and energy on further spending, and instead end the matter of joy for the Norwegian people, who are busy getting into nature, also through the use of snowmobiles. This also has a clear public health perspective. Finally, I will deal with the proposals of the Progress Party. I mean, it's time to put this thing in place right now. Subsidy, we support the Right's somewhat more bureaucratic and time-consuming proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1717	The representative Oskar J. Grimstad has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1720	Noise, damage to nature, disruption of animal life and potential conflicts with outdoor interests are the potential consequences of motor travel in the outland. Motor travel in outland is prohibited today, unless there are specific exceptions. It is clear that the use of motor vehicles in outdoors has positive aspects as well, and serves good purposes, among other things. in the reindeer industry and in other management of land. In addition, it is important for police and rescue services. It is important to have a balance between these considerations. In Soria Moria II, the government writes that it will complete the review of the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses. Based on this review, it shall be assessed whether there is a need for further adjustments or amendments to existing legislation in addition to that implemented in the summer of 2009. In 2009, we amended the regulations on access to business, group trips with snowmobiles and municipal emergency measures to reduce the risk of impact on elk and other deer. The Ministry of the Environment is now reviewing the issues that remain in the Directorate of Natural Management’s 2008 recommendation. I am concerned that we should find a solution that helps to balance the needs of certain groups for the use of motor vehicles in the field and the protection of nature and outdoors. Motor travel in the outfield is controversial. However, I note that several surveys between 2001 and now show that a clear majority of the population is against more liberal legislation in this area. The study highlights the particular importance of outdoor life as a reason for a restrictive approach. A significantly more liberal approach to this could give the interests of a minority priority over the interests of the majority. I also record that the Progress Party refers to a study on these conditions and that this study has been carried out in the seven most scooter-rich states of our country. The Ministry of the Environment launched a pilot scheme, on which the rapporteur was involved, with new management of motor traffic in selected municipalities in 2000. The municipalities of Sirdal, Vinje, Stor-Elvdal, Lom, Røros, Hattfjelldal, Fauske and Kautokeino were part of the scheme. Kautokeino later withdrew from the scheme. In these attempts, more administrative powers were transferred to the municipalities. As the rapporteur says, good results from the experiment have been demonstrated, but these are not quite clear results either. The evaluation of the results will be part of the government's further work on the matter. In this case, it has been important for the Workers' Party to find a good balance between the need for motor travel in the field and the need for outdoor life and the preservation of the landscape. We will also take this into account when we discuss the matter further when the government comes up with its evaluation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1741	Some kinds of issues are suitable for producing contradictions between central bureaucracy and power apparatus and district Norway. Motorised travel in the field is one of the best in this respect. The department treats the matter as if it were believed that every resident in the district Norway loves horsepower and rowing engines and will release it freely if not some peace-making central located bureaucrat holds his protective hand over the development and protects District Norway from himself. Motorised travel must be one of the most important things that say about the government's paralysis of action. Greater local freedom would be a confidence to District Norway in a matter that can hardly be said to be vital to the country, but which means quite a lot to part of District Norway. Several regionally anchored politicians in all government parties have made clear their views on the need to delegate authority locally. But it's going to be talking. Have you forgotten that trust cultivates responsibility, and that mistrust and unnecessary regulation stimulates to break the burdens? It should be child learning, but it seems completely forgotten in today's government – unfortunately. This is a kind of administration and responsibility that local democracy will manage in an excellent way. The trial project that was started by Børge Burnde, which several people have been involved in, shows just that. Getting responsibility locally also gets legitimacy locally. Without legitimacy locally, policies, regulations and legislation will be undermined. Illegal driving and the many conflicts around motorized traffic underline just that. Governments should remember it in many contexts. Local trials just show that, by delegating authority locally, as the case-rapporteur said, less illegal driving, more taxi and tourism, less driving on vulnerable terrain, better municipal planning, and self-discipline is being developed in motor environments. There is also an active local debate on how to deal with this. Then legitimacy is created. That is also what we want. This is not to be released freely. On the contrary, the test project demonstrates that not all municipalities opened up to motorised traffic even when freedom was granted. Sirdal hasn't opened up to lines. We get a greater diversity – yes. However, motorised off-road movement must take place within a responsible framework, and it shows exactly the way the municipalities treat it. I come from the border lines against Sweden. In my municipality you have wanted to make a link that the snowmobile people can follow to get to Sweden. Recreation and tourism could get a little drag help. But everything stops. In addition, the snowmobile environment has been fined for using a broken road to drive a few hundred metres to the Swedish border. People shake their heads. We have several examples in the county. In contrast, one has long wanted to establish an off-road centre where car enthusiasts could expand. Against it is, as is known, the country's defence municipality. Large parts of the municipality have been used for shooting. Therefore, the municipality has also regulated a small area between the two shooting areas for off-road purposes but no. The municipality cannot sell peace and quiet, as the department seems to believe that the whole of District Norway will live off. They could have placed motorized traffic into an environment where such a centre could not possibly interfere with much else but get no. To Eirin Sund: she's looking for balance. These two things can hardly seem to represent any balance. There is a massive overmanagement of local desires that happens. That the centre party has not managed to resolve this matter during the period, must be flat. Being able to manage their own field, their own values, is a lot of District Norway close. I don't think the Center Party has completely left it. By requiring it to take place within some national frameworks and stimulating local debate, this will be done in a good way that creates legitimacy. I bring this up with the suggestions that the right-hand side promotes in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1760	The representative of Gunnar Gundersen has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1763	I always think it is interesting to hear EU followers instruct others in massive overmanagement of Norwegian villages, and to hear Right Members, with the history of the Right in financing the municipal sector and coercion of municipalities, etc. – forced against municipalities. The fact that ‘trust produces responsibilities’ is quite correct by the representative of Gundersen. He should have thought about that before he agreed to adopt the data storage directive yesterday – but I will leave it. The representative Sund must have explained well the majority's views on this matter, as she has done in the past. The last time we debated this matter was last May. Then the characteristics hailed from a number of right-wing representatives. There is reason to hope for a slightly more sober debate this time, and would like to have no representatives mention the material of the state's trade unions as garbage, as was the case last year. I intend to spend some time adjusting the impression that one can get of the Progress Party and the Right quite selective use of polls in their comments, and that shows that the representative Gundersen's notions of how the government parties perceive Norwegian districts are completely unfounded. On the contrary, the representative of Gundersen is wrong. In the nation’s district barometer – and we know this – people were asked whether they thought it should be easier to run snowmobiles in the woods and on the roads, and it may not be surprising that in cities there was a large majority who opposed liberalising the rules. But, as the nation writes, it's also more than 40 pst. in the villages that say they are against a decoration of the rules, in addition to all those who believe that the legislation is good today. So there is no evidence to argue that it is a large majority and a great demand for people to want these rules to be liberalised. There are several, both in the towns and cities, who want us to have today's rules, or stricter rules. Some serve to create conflicts between cities and towns. We also see that in the debate on predators. There is something we see on both sides of the debate: you create an impression of a bad central power that is overrun by victims in the districts. This contributes to actors on both sides of the debate. But no one is worthy of trying to make permanent distinctions in Norway, based on geography. I also think we should be very careful about doing that in the main hall. Most of us are selected from counties that both have urban entries and district entries. That's Norway. To present it differently is unreasonable. The right has e.g. in previous debates on this topic, inter alia: referred to SV as a coffee latte lot. It's plump rhetoric. The Government shall complete the review of the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses. That means that we will have the opportunity several times to debate this matter. So I hope that until the next time it becomes a little less suspicious of opponents of opinion, and that you not only relate to the polls that show the results you want in the most snowmobile-oriented states, but allow yourself to see the whole picture, without accusing anyone of being a bad, centralist urbanist.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1776	In Soria Moria II, it is known that the government will complete the review of the law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses. The centre party is committed to bringing this matter to a conclusion by the government. However, although there are still remaining clarifications that need to be taken on this issue, much has to be said to have been done. As you know, the Directorate for Nature Management’s proposal for a new legislation on motor vehicle traffic contained a number of proposals for tightening up. These were partly strongly criticised by many teams, and this criticism has been taken seriously. The entire 20 of the tightening proposals have been removed. Among them is the following: It is still allowed to drive on snow-covered land, it is still allowed for cabin owners to drive to the cabin if there is more than 2.5 km there, there is still free running in Nord-Troms and Finnmark, and the purpose of the bill to limit motor traffic to a minimum is dropped. In addition, the government has liberalised in several areas: outlying traders have been granted increased access to driving. The government is considering opening up recreational loops to scooters throughout the country, and it has become easier to arrange snowmobile tours for pensioners and people with reduced mobility. The centre part is occupied with local control, also here. Conditions vary enormously from municipality to municipality, and the law must reflect this. The Motor Travel Act must take account of the development of the economy in the field and the practice of traditional harvesting. Municipalities must be given the opportunity to establish defined loops for leisure and recreation with snowmobiles. In other words, we want a law that is practical, in line with people's legal opinion and least bureaucratic. The centre party is very satisfied with what has been done so far in this case. However, among other things: the issue of recreational driving, as mentioned above, has not yet been clarified. Although we have a law that preserves the practical and necessary use of nature, we in the Center Party are concerned that this too will happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1797	The Christian People's Party believes that a restrictive national motor travel policy should continue. We want to protect vulnerable nature from damage caused by motorised operations in the form of landslides or snowmobiles in the field. We want to care for people's need for tranquillity and tranquillity as they travel in nature. We also want to protect animal life from harmful noise. At the same time, the Christian People’s Party believes that there must be good arrangements for safe driving and driving to and from cabins. The Christian People's Party also believes that it should be possible to open tracks for snowmobile clubs and the like. in areas where it has no significant negative environmental impact. Norway is a long-term country with varying population density and different needs. Climatic conditions also indicate the need for differentiated policies in this area, from Lindesnes in the south to North Cape in the north. The Christian People's Party agrees with the proposers that people with reduced brilliance, such as the elderly and disabled, must have the opportunity to experience nature, even if they will depend on motorized means of emergence to achieve this. Here we need to find simple and unbureaucratic arrangements. Over the 51⁄2 years of their rule, the government has given very striking and unclear signals about the policy they want to pursue in the field of motor travel. On behalf of the Ministry of the Environment, the Directorate for Nature Management developed a legislative proposal which was sent at the summer 2007 consultation. Based on this, in March 2008 the directorate sent in their proposal for a new law on motor travel in the outfield to the government. The legislative proposal was a major step in the right direction. For a long time, the government had already prepared a legislative proposal, first through the Motor Traffic and Society pilot project, over the period 2000–2005 — an attempt to increase local autonomy in eight selected municipalities, and an ex-post evaluation of it. When the matter turned out to create a lot of noise in the election campaign in 2009, the government chose to stop the whole process. So now you have to complete what you once started, with a review of the legislation, as it is called in the letter from the Council of State to the Committee. The Christian People's Party wants to continue the main lines of today's legislation on motorcycling, with some adjustments to ensure a greater degree of municipal autonomy and to continue some of the flexibility in relation to local needs demonstrated by the pilot scheme. The Christian People's Party supports the majority in attaching the proposal to the Minutes, and we await the government's assessment of the remaining needs for any changes to existing laws and regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1814	In a very good speech, too, Eirin Sund highlighted the need for balance in this debate. I think it might be a keyword, because this is an area where there is a clear need for a balance between different considerations. We don't hear anyone in the debate saying anything else either, but there are differences in emphasis on it. On the one hand, motorised means of production serve obvious purposes. It may be useful for clean-up operations; it may be useful for people with disabilities to get into the open air; it may be useful for business and tourism. It serves a number of obvious utility purposes, of course also the police, the Red Cross and many others. On the other hand, people also need peace and tranquillity when they're out in the wild, and motor travel can lead to ground damage, disruption of animal life, conflict with outdoor life, etc., so to me, it's obvious that a balance needs to be found. It is also incorporated in the purpose of the Motor Trade Act itself, which states: ‘The aim of this Act is to regulate motor travel in the countryside and watercourses in order to protect the natural environment and to promote well-being.’ The concept of ‘promoting well-being’ here includes, as I see it, among other things. the Christian People's Party and Line Henriette Heimdal were involved, namely the need to be able to be in nature in silence and peace and tranquillity. It's this balance the government's out to get to. We have embellished the Motor Traffic Act on some points. It's been the occasion of group tours for disabled people, people living in institutions. Various forms of nutrition have been given more opportunity to drive motorised driving, and there are also other embellishments. After all, there is a significant misunderstanding in the debate – which, fortunately, has not been so much of it now, but as it has been in the past – namely that the debate was about the Directorate for Natural Management's proposals. I remind you once again of the policy I have, and as I have repeatedly said in this Chamber, that the various trade unions, whether it be the Directorate of Nature Management, the Riksantikvaren, or whatever it may be, should and should be allowed to promote their views, and then the government and I make the necessary political balances. The government has never promoted the Directorate of Natural Management's proposals, but it has been a contribution to our debate, just as we get input from big business representatives and other social actors. At the latest this winter, I adjusted a proposal that came from the Directorate of Nature Management about how driving to a cabin was to understand – where the municipalities have the opportunity to grant a dispensation for a cabin owner to drive up to a cabin with snowmobiles – and perceived it as being also for children and in-laws of the one who has this occasion, and not just children, to mention an example of adjustments. I am absolutely convinced – and it was also very well documented by several speakers, Snorre Serigstad Valen and others – that the policy of government is a policy for the silent, broad majority in Norway. The Right Party and the Progressive Party have a strong tendency to mix small, speaking and speaking minorities with the majority. All measurements show that a broad majority of the population is behind such a nuanced, balanced snowmobile policy. 79 pst. there is a complete or complete disagreement between the fact that it should be easier to obtain authorisation for the use of motor vehicles in the Norwegian outland. In the case of snowmobiles, specifically 74 pst respond. ‘It should be easier to obtain permission to use snowmobiles in Norwegian outland’. There are many, many more who call for a very positive or quite positive approach to intensification. There's nothing the government has suggested, but even tightening up is many more who want than those who want an embellishment. So the government's policy is simply a policy for the broad, silent majority in Norway, as opposed to the policy of some groups – and of course they have full freedom of expression – who speak very loudly but do not represent the majority of the population. I would like to end by saying that the government will provide a summary of the trials that have been carried out, and further material on this matter. But there is no need for any new law. There is no need for the government to respond to the different interest groups in society. The government is based on the policy that it is. It works pretty well, but it's also open to adjustments and discussions about some points, including. Knut Magnus Olsen was concerned about the issue of recreational driving. With regard to the issue of local authority dispensation and some other questions, we will return to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1835	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1838	During my visit to the municipality of Fauske, it was found that due to a lack of carelessness, the industry is becoming more and more engrossed in nature. Lack of diligence resulted in a lack of funding for interventions, and those who had ideas or had activities for young people, would not be willing to bet, nor would they receive bank finance. The reason for this is that one does not know whether these testing schemes, which have been going on for so many years, are being permanently or permanently withdrawn, and whether any investment will then be wasted. It was said that the Ministry of the Environment almost seemed to be waiting for a negative feedback and should find an excuse to withdraw this experimental scheme that has given so much experience. The question is: does not the Council of State trust the good experience you have from this experiment, where one can also see that the municipality manages this in a very good way, and where much of the battle that has been before is actually gone?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1847	Of course, we're going to come back with an even more thorough assessment of the experience of this in Fauske and elsewhere. I fully recognize that there will be shared views of what is right policy. It varies in different places in the country, and it varies from one person to another. But the large, large, broad majority agree with the government's policy in this area. Every time the Progress Party sees something in District Norway that they don't like, whether it's predatory or motorcyclist policy, they say this is a threat to District Norway. But the great fundamental threat to District Norway is the Progress Party itself. If an agricultural policy is to be implemented in Norway according to the objectives of the Progress Party, it will really be a fundamental, existential threat to the settlement in District Norway. Even the worst possible outcomes of predatory and motorcycling policy, seen from the point of view of the Progress Party – given that they were correct – are not in the vicinity of being such a threat to District Norway as the overall policy of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1856	There is now a clear signal from District Norway that there is no excess of activity and nutritional potential there. Since the Council of State is concerned with this with predatory policies, they are very clear in the districts about what should be done with it, as the Progress Party is also concerned about reducing the predator threat and the evisceration of grazing animals, so that it is possible to live on the limited resources available to the districts. When it comes to the possibilities of providing accommodation and services, we see that they too are mutilated in the districts. Does the Council not see that this will lead to young people sitting in their homes with Apple on their PC and not being activated? Many of these actually need to get something motorized, something more modern than what has been the tradition?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1865	It's not hard for any of us to find people in District Norway who share some of the points of the Advance Party's policy, either in the case of predators or in the case of motor travel. What I'm saying is that the vast, broad majority share the government's policy in both of these areas. We need a balance between predators and sheep farming in Norway, between field and predators. We're going to have both of these. We must have a balance between the opportunity to drive motor travel, given special assumptions, and the need for silence, tranquillity and protection of nature that the vast majority also want. For District Norway, it is also a fundamental question to have such a natural state that many aspects of travel, agriculture and fisheries exist in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1872	I have to say that the Council of State is not getting tired of being stupid about using polls. The installation to Snorre Serigstad Valen was, in my opinion, a typical example of abuse of opinion polls. Snorre Serigstad Valen talked about that there were polls that showed that people would not have a liberalisation in use of snowmobiles, and then he transferred it to that there was opposition to the Right's proposal. However, it is not the liberalisation proposed by the Right. The right has proposed that local authorities should have more access to their own facilities and rights in this area. There they could try a poll and see how it would turn out then. Governments use this repeatedly by silent majority and take polls as truth. When will he come out of his error in these kinds of questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1879	I think we're going to be careful about accusing political competitors of being stupid, because the wisdom is probably relatively equally distributed between the different political parties, at least the IQ is relatively equally distributed, the wisdom might vary. A fundamental thesis that I've used a lot from this pulpit is that the Norwegian people in a series of these areas want a balanced policy. They actually don't want you to listen to those who shout loudest. So you don't have to listen to the predators who shout the loudest. Nor should one listen to the most – let me call it – conservationists in the cities that have not been so much in District Norway, and which seem to be easy to protect predators far from their own coffee tables, as Gundersen tends to parodie them. You shouldn't listen most to any of these. A policy should be pursued which is broadly based on the large groups of the population. That's what I've been trying to prove clearly here. Both in the case of a balanced predatory policy and in the case of a balanced snowmobile policy, there is widespread support in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1886	It is possible to interpret statistics in different ways. We could probably keep on for many days and tell about what's good, and what's bad. But what people in the inland municipalities have a very hard time understanding is that you can't do any more recreational driving after noticing a run than is the case today. Then they like to compare with the archipelago in the summer. All kinds of boats then travel along the coast, they have many horsepowers and make a lot of trouble. That seems strange to the people of the interior. Does the Council of State think that there is a distortion here, so that you either have to ban boat traffic along the south coast, or you have to be a little bit more light in terms of snowmobile traffic in the inland municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1891	No, I don't see any clear parallel here. And I repeat, you have to be very careful to say what the population along the coast or here and there means, because then these are really just party traps in different municipalities, or those that mean the same thing as yourself, and that's what you're referring to. Let us acknowledge that there are shared opinions about both predator and scooter policy in Norway. There are some extremes, but the large, broad majority are in between and want a balance in it. I refer to polls carried out in 2001, 2008 and 2010, and they show the same bottom line, namely that a large majority oppose a general liberalisation of snowmobile policy in Norway. You want snowmobiles for certain specific purposes, and you also want to have the opportunity to go on a ski trip and do other things in peace and quiet without the disturbance that a snowmobile represents. And it has to be the same people who want both one and the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1898	The President would just like to remind you that there is motor travel in the field that is the theme, not predatory or agricultural policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1901	Thank you for that reminder. It was probably aimed at the Council of State rather than at this representative, because I intend to deal with the issue. It can be wondered whether the state council has read the current situation, where both the content of the proposal has been reproduced, which has increased local self-government within national driving guidelines in the field, and an evaluation of the pilot project that was carried out in eight selected municipalities in the period 2000–2005. So there's no basis for talking in such capital letters about the politics of others as the Council of State has done here. And then there's also a poll in the poll that might represent the silent majority that the Council of State is occupied with, that is, that 80 pst. says it must be allowed to use scooters to and from your own cabin. 75 pst. says the municipality must be able to notice its own scooter loops. 68 pst says snowmobile driving on forest roads should be legal. 65 pst says snowmobile rides on ice water should be allowed. 62 pst. states that municipalities are to take over the regulation of snowmobile traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1909	It was precisely because the Right and Advance Party brought this into the setting that I felt it was necessary to protest at that particular point. I will admit that I have not always read all the big documents as well, but in this case I have read the setting very carefully. One of the interesting phenomena is again that there is a broad majority here in Stortinget, which includes the Christian People's Party, and there is a Right Party-Fremskritspartie-Alliance in areas by area of environmental policy. It now seems to be a systematic image. I don't think the Progress Party has a lot of problems with that. However, I believe that the Right has problems with systematically associating itself with the Progress Party in almost all areas of environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1914	So the line change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1919	The questions discussed in this case are something that concerns many people. In particular, this is an important theme in the districts – understandably enough. For the rural population, the outreach is often a business area, a workplace and an area of recreation and leisure. The field is a resource that can do a lot of work, but it has to be handled carefully, and it has to be maintained. We know that major damage in such natural areas takes a long time to be corrected, especially in arctic regions. It is therefore important to be able to combine the use of the field with good conservation of nature, as mentioned by several speakers here today. I feel confident that this is at the bottom of the ministry's work on this issue. This is a municipal, regional and national case. Much has been done, as the representative Knut Magnus Olsen just listed. In the case of the Workers' Party, it is important to strengthen the rights of all persons and to ensure all access to recreational areas. We see it as important to manage nature in a way that ensures the ability of present and future generations to experience nature in a good way. At the same time, it is also important for nature-based industries and for more district industries. In order to safeguard and combine these interests, a good and coordinated land policy is important. Like the proposers, we are committed to finding good solutions for this. We who live in the districts and up to the limit are concerned with these issues and by being able to use means to get into the field for different purposes. I think everyone, not least nature itself, deserves to get more of their own marked loops for snowmobile rides. This will reduce the problem of illegal and unwitting driving everywhere, even in areas where there should be no traffic at all. Such schemes will also make it easier to find solutions for those who will use scooters for their own properties — and for commercial purposes. I am also concerned that people who, for health reasons, cannot get into nature by their own help will have the opportunity to enjoy nature's qualities. Therefore, loops and traverses must also be planned, so that it can also be possible for these people to get into nature. We all need natural experiences, and we should all have rights in this context, but in a way that preserves both nature and those who seek peace in nature, whether it is in the outland or in the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1932	The representative proposal on motor travel in the outfield, and the outcome of today's debate, is a test of how the government handles local democracy. Local politicians can best assess whether and where snowmobile driving can be performed. The pilot project with a new management system for outdoor motor travel in eight municipalities started in 2000 and was evaluated by the Norwegian Institute for Natural Research (NINA) in 2005. The evaluation was the basis for the NINA proposal for a new legislation. In my home state, West Agder, Sirdal has been an experimental community. The municipality developed in 2002 a plan for motor travel in rural areas. Sirdal municipality is a very large cottage municipality. Sirdal's politicians stressed in the preparation of the plan that most of the driving was based on commercial activity. The plan was to work for three years and be renewed annually. Now the plan was made in 2002, until further notice. Based on the experience of the pilot project, the politicians in Sirdal want to revise the plan, including: areas for recreational use. Both residents and politicians in the municipality have difficulties in understanding the ban on recreational driving when comparing this with boating in the archipelago in the summer months. The TNS Gallup survey in August 2007 shows, as mentioned earlier, that 80 pst. says it must be allowed to use scooters to and from your own cabin, 75 pst. believes that municipalities can notice their own scooter loops, and 62 pst. states that municipalities must take over the regulation of snowmobile traffic. The Progress Party believes that all municipalities should have the right to manage the law on motor travel in the outland. When the bill is available, it will be very interesting to see whether the department has taken account of the clear and unambiguous Gallup figures. The Progress Party is concerned that more power is transferred from central authorities to local politicians. Law of motorised travel in the field will be a test. Norway is a big country. Good procedures and a strict code must allow for the provision of comprehensive recreational loops for snowmobile driving. Nobody knows their areas better than the local politicians. Politicians should therefore decide, inter alia: on snowmobile services. The red-green government has demonstrated through the strengthening of the Law on Planning and Building and the introduction of the INON concept of land management in the Nature Diversity Act that central power should be strengthened at the expense of local democracy. Government parties claim that this is not the case. That is why the same politicians are now being challenged to reverse this trend. If local politicians are given the right to handle the law on motor travel in the countryside, this will be a good signal to local politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1949	The best thing that has happened to me today is to hear the council say that he will stop listening to the conservationists who are sitting in their cafes in the cities and have little contact with nature out in District Norway. It was joyous, and I really hope he does. We're all concerned that we have to preserve nature, we have to protect animal life and we have to avoid harmful noise in nature. Therefore, it was necessary in due course to have national legislation. We all mean that. Now it is that the legislation made no difference to a municipality like Oslo and Finnmarkswirdda, in and of its own accord. But we all know that there must be a difference here, and it did not take that regulation into account. This is why we are constantly hearing about cases where local authorities are being overrun by the county in cases where the municipality is asking for moderate permission for activity. This may apply, for example: a request for recreational driving for disabled people or restricted business. I was visiting Lierne and Røyrvik municipalities last week. In both of these municipalities, motorised travel in the field was a major theme. And when the Central Party says they're happy with the way this is done, I can promise that not all of the central party rapporteurs in the districts are just as satisfied, and not all of the centre party voters either. Every week, just before the weekend, there are long rows of cars with scooters on trailers across to Sweden. They pass the Lis, they pass Røirvik. They could have had an economic development in the two municipalities, which would be a loving addition to the food industry's foundation elsewhere up there. And it would be possible to do it without destroying nature. Scootering up to fishing water has been permitted in some municipalities – among others. in Røyrvik and Lierne – if you have fishing ropes and fishing licenses, but only to the end of the water. Some of these waters are so large that you have to go miles to get into the fishing grounds, because it's not allowed to run on the iced water. Some of us don't understand this. It's completely incomprehensible. It is true that it now seems that the majority of cities – and we are going to have an even greater majority of cities gradually – will have even greater power to manage areas where others live. Neither do those living in the districts manage and control those living in the cities. So just counting the number of individuals around, compared to the majority – the silent majority, as the minister called it – we don't think we're going to be right. We in the Right believe that the administration of that type of activity should be given to the municipalities, within the framework of state laws.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1965	I think there's one thing we can agree on: at least where I come from, the Nordic state, we have a good place. We have a lot of nature, and there's room for a lot of people. The need for an adjustment of the law on outdoor motor travel has been considerable for a long time, and work started with national regulations as early as 1987. Since then, several investigations and trials have followed up. It's true that Knut Magnus Olsen of the Center Party says here that progress has been made in this work. But as I said, we're not in goal yet. Several municipalities in Norway – also in Northern Ireland, among others. Hattfjelldal and Fauske have been experimental municipalities for almost ten years – they have proven, through their experiments, that this is an area that the municipalities control in a very good way. As far as I know, there are probably eight municipalities that are involved in this trial project. And when it comes to taking local democracy seriously, I think it's also important to listen to these municipalities and hear how these attempts have gone. Because it's been very well. The tests show that municipal government has created greater housing, optimism in the countryside and in the experimental communities, especially if you talk to young people. And that's very important. It is very important in relation to business, employment, and not least housing. Another thing that I think we need to take on board when we're going to go on with this is that there are also more new jobs created, and new plans are available. But it requires that the framework conditions become predictable with a permanent law that allows for the use of snowmobiles in fixed loops, where it is not least open for recreation, which many people have been in today, so that anyone who wants and has the opportunity to do so can get out. It is important to keep this in mind in the further work. The tests also show that new municipalities have a significant potential within the tourism industry by facilitating the use of snowmobiles. This is particularly true in the Nordic countries, but also elsewhere. Therefore, it is all the more important now that the government submits to the Stortinget a proposal for adjustments to the law on motor travel in the field. This means that it becomes part of the spatial planning of municipalities, so that it can be opened up to regulate entrances also opens up for leisure trips. It's about local democracy, it's about jobs, it's about housing, and it's not just about district policy. And I'm sure this government will be able to find good solutions to move on with this work, so that you get a good case that can work well for these districts. These test communities have shown that they have taken their responsibility, and I think everyone will.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1978	I really didn't intend to take the floor in the debate. But I sat in my office and heard the Council of State reply in line change, and as usual I registered that the Council of State did not respond at all to the questions he received from the representatives – he began to withdraw agricultural policy from the Progress Party. And this is, as we know, not a agricultural debate, but a snowmobile debate. I would like to give an example of why snowmobiles are important to agriculture, as they are, among other things. It's pulling it in. I'll take an example from Troms. There was a farmer who was running tourism, and it went badly. He drives tourists up by tractor in the summer, on a tractor road which he has made. He lets the tourists get fish, then he cooks them after they've got fish, and then he carries them down again, and makes money on them. When winter comes, he wants to do the same with scooters – draw them up to the water with scooters, run his business and get income to the family, so they can live off it. But what happens then? Well, then Solheim comes in with his regulations and says that you are not allowed to drive snowmobiles on the road that is unbroken. But of course you can break the road 13 kilometers up. Obviously, if you're used to sitting at a table at Theatercafé and finding out how Norway is built, as the Solheim Council clearly does, this is going to be wrong. Maybe it's time for Solheim to take a trip into the districts and see what they're struggling with there, and not protect everything you see, stop all recreation and all the economic development that's in North Norway. I can take another example -- I could take a lot of examples -- and then we go to where I come from, Narvik in North Norway, where there are 18,500 inhabitants. There are 600 scooters registered in that municipality with 18,500 inhabitants! Where does Solheim think those scooters are going? Five miles away is Sweden. There they build out for billions – business in Sweden is flourishing, while business in the Nordic region is going down. It does, of course, with Solheim in the driver's seat. It'll be a bit of a tragedy to listen to the representatives of Arnesen and Stroem from North Norway. I hear they want to do something about this, but they're hostage to the councillor, Solheim, who's staying at Theater Café instead of being in the districts and seeing what the districts are struggling with. What I'm suggesting is actually that you give Solheim a one-way ticket up to the districts to see what's going on there, and that he cancels his table at Theatercafé.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e1991	As a representative from the district, I feel like anything but a hostage to the Council of State. One certainly doesn't need my hat sitting at the Theatre Café to see that there is a need for national legislation and legislation when it comes to motor travel in the outland. One who is happy in both nature and outdoor life can imagine what the situation would have been like if there had not been a national legislation that had governed when motor vehicles came and developed completely a few years ago. Thank you to me that there was a state that was on the offensive there, and it was actually something that the Norwegian municipalities themselves asked for. It is the way that the legislation and legislation we have in this area today are generally seen as very positive. As the Council of State was in it, there has been a good deal of softening in the legislation. It is, as I said, not DN's proposal for legislation that a no-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go, there's a great deal of excitement about this in the population. So it's not a question of centrally located bureaucrats, or about people in the districts, and how to balance the relationship between motor travel and nature's concerns. It will be treated differently from the municipality to the municipality, and that is exactly what this experiment shows. Some municipalities have opened up to have recreational and tourist runs in regulated areas, which I think is very positive and good. It will prevent much illegal running, and there will be increased respect for the legislation in this area. My call to the Council of State is short and good, when one is about to complete – had I almost said – this otherwise very good, sensible legislation and legislation in this area: take advantage of the experimental work that has been done, and open up to the municipalities that find the solution most sensible, the possibility of opening up recreational and tourist runs in a regulated area. Other municipalities will probably make a different assessment and say they won't. But here we are very confident that the Norwegian local government representatives will do what is the best assessment, both in relation to the necessary motor travel and in relation to nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2002	I do not know whether the representative Rudihagen is aware of this, but he therefore agrees with the Progress Party and not with SV. At least that's what he said. I was sitting and listening to the debate, and I was not really going to speak. But I have rarely been as provoked as when I heard the Council of State. He here presents the representatives of the Progress Party from the districts and the voters in the districts as if they do not understand their own best, because they vote for a party that is going to put down the districts! Now it is that in the districts the Progress Party is approx. 15 pst. higher than SV at all choices. It is perhaps because the voters in the districts have understood that it is SV who are about to go down the districts, not the Progress Party. Then I heard that the Council of State was so concerned with polling and what the people thought. Yeah, there was a really big poll in Northernland a couple of years ago. It's called choice. There went SV and Left, the two who were against oil drilling, strongly back in the Lofoten and the Vestralål, and in the Northland. Did the Council of State take that into account? No, he forced it by stopping the development there as well. And then it's interesting to hear that he places emphasis on the tame majority. Yes, in the case of the silent majority, where is the majority living in this country? It's in Oslo and Akershus, in the Central East. I don't accept that it's those who are going to make the rules for how I'm going to live in the district. There are reasons why I live in the district. I am happy to drive a boat, I have never had snowmobiles and will not buy them either, and I am going skiing. The councils should take a trip up the mountain cottage in the north. There it is so that you can go a ski trip up to a top and sit down. If you sit behind your ears and listen, you don't hear a snowmobile if it passes. That's the point. There's room for both of them, there's good space for both of them. I, who like me at sea and live off the coast, can use the boat for recreation, while those who live in the inland, where there are no sea areas, drive the same trips as I do, just that they run on snowmobiles. They drive where they are allowed to drive, but usually they go to Sweden and drive there. Then they grill sausages and enjoy themselves with the family – just the same as I do with the boat. I drive over by boat, anchor, rudder ashore, grill sausages – but you should not do that if you drive snowmobiles. I have two engines in my boat, which roar well, much more than a snowmobile, with there are no restrictions on it. But it's going to happen if we get the SV by the power long enough. The point here is that there are possibilities for both of them. But SV has found an environmental alibi, and it's the snowmobile. It's the big hate object that they're exploiting to the full. It's tragic to listen to. So talk about going on a scooter trip with pensioners, etc. No, it has also stopped SV, because only the ideal organisations can do it. The snowmobile club in Beiarn, which has done so from 1997 to today, has been banned. You think a non-profit organization should do that, and they don't.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2017	It is rare that there are debates that are more engaging than debates on travel abroad. I took the floor because it was referred to some statistics earlier in the debate, where it was said that there was a large majority who wanted more travel in the field. Well, they asked 1,000 pieces in Finnmark, the county I come from, what they thought about motorized travel in the outland. Over half says we have to reduce it, about 10 pst. wants more. We need to get the right picture in this debate. If we're going to travel in the field, we're going to have to weigh it up against different considerations. If we take Finnmark, which is a very large state, it's ironically enough a state that has industries that require a lot of land. Then it is not unfavorably positive to release a liberalisation of scooter loops in the east and west, literally. It goes beyond, among other things. the reindeer industry and other types of industries. That's why I think the government's policy in this area is sensible – it focuses on different needs. It takes into account recreation, but it also takes into account industries. It also takes into account those who are dependent on land-use driving in order to be able to operate their type of industry. I believe that the liberalisation that the Progress Party often talks about in these kinds of matters is not lucky, at least not for Finnmark, my country. I don't think it's lucky for Nordland either, because you don't pay attention to the reasons that it's important to take, namely environmental protection, industries and people's welfare. My recommendations to the Council of State are to follow up the good work. He should also know that there are different views on this matter. It is not always the case that the large majority want a large, large degree of liberalisation. The Labour Party has at least a majority in Finnmark County to say that the opposite is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2028	The debate on this matter has developed in an interesting way, because if the representative, Mr Stroem, as usual, was in power, and the representative, Mr Rudihagen, votes as they speak, these proposals have a majority. I am very pleased because the representatives Ström and Rudihagen have understood what we are really debating. We are talking about increased local self-government within national guidelines. That's what we're asked to take a stand for here today. The Council of State, on the other hand, answers questions that have never been asked, raises up and argues against them, instead of deciding on the position underlying the debate. It's very disappointing, and, I would also say, surprisingly easily gained by the Council of State. What he also does is push the so-called tause majority in front of him. The position also refers to a good number of opinion polls which clearly state that this same majority wants local self-government to be increased. They want those who wear their shoes and who know where to print themselves to manage this within national guidelines that will take care of the obligations we have to take care of nature and the environment. There's something the Council of State chooses not to comment on. Instead, he promotes – what to say – a little exaggerated claims about the politics of other parties. And it was a careful characteristic. It could be an advantage for the debate if the Council of State had also followed the example of the representatives of Ström and Rudihagen and actually adhered to what we are discussing, rather than discussing predatory policy, agricultural policy and other issues that the Council of State apparently seems to be very interested in today. Today, it is also discussed whether to allow municipalities to practice increased municipal autonomy within national frameworks, as was done in eight selected experimental municipalities — with very good results. So the Council of State has chosen not to deal with what we are discussing today, and instead to conduct a polemics based on a scare image of the politics of other parties. It's disappointing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2042	It has been a strange representation that right-wing representatives from the government in many ways argue against their council. We also record that the only person who has followed the government council is the one who comes from the same party. We also had a post from a Finnmark representative, who had to construct a problem to be inconsistent, because he also clearly knows the benefits of a good lawmaking behind the use of snowmobiles in an efficient and good way to increase natural experiences and for more people to get into nature. What is our base here? We have consistently positive feedback from all the test communities, and this, of course, has given us expectations of a positive attitude, i.e. a positive attitude towards self-government, because one has shown that one can take the necessary responsibility. We also see that NINA's investigation is positive. Then it's claimed by the representative Sund that the opposition is investigating positives, and they're recorded in the seven most scooter-rich states. Yeah, what's up? Is it the walking list or the search list that you want to set the rules for the construction of motorways? Or are they going to come and decide, those who use him? Is it those who live in areas where scooters are desirable, who are supposed to premise, or is it the urban city builder who well and refuses in supply? Let me just underline in conclusion: there is no one who has the order that it should be free for scooter rides on land and beach, I had almost said – or land and mountains are well more correct. But the red-green government does well to break test laws, which say that attempts should last for six years, and then it should stop, rather than admit that the test system has been successful. There's a paradox up there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2053	It has been a refreshing debate. Without knowing the council personally, I guess it wasn't the first thing I thought about when I thought about his private preferences. Nor does the environmental movement think I frequent the Theatercafé very much. On the other hand, I can easily imagine members of both the Progress Party and the Right at Theatercafé. When the kind of argument is used in a debate that is so demanding, it says something about the level. It was a representative, Kenneth Svendsen, who was here using the argument that he had 15 p.m. in the local elections. more votes than SV in the back. I come from a municipality where I had 63.7 pst. of the votes in the back of the previous local elections, and when I sat on the municipal board for this party locally and we discussed this question, we were not agreed. And of course, the reason for this is because here's the perfectly legitimate contradictions. Whoever starts this debate by not understanding it, ends quickly in one or the other ditch. That is what makes this debate particularly demanding, because there are quite legitimate contradictions in the debate. Personally, I believe that today's law has holes. Today, exceptions are practiced in many municipalities too liberally, which means that you do not control the traffic of scooters in winter in areas, and you also get, that you may have exemptions due to nutrition, a sum of loads that are in many places unfortunate. Especially in my areas where we have four wild reindeer strains, you can see that it is a challenge. Because you want there to be an opportunity to run scooters while you have a law that allows for exceptions, you can't give an exception to any cabins, while other cabins don't get one. It's a challenge that lies in today's law, which I think we have to go into. If you, for example, had taken into account a planning and building legislation that had regulated this, it could have regulated geographically within the municipalities and in a way protected areas that are more exposed naturally than others. It seems to me to be a very relevant approach, and I believe that this has not been achieved through the eight experimental municipalities, but through other experiences that have been reaped. For example, when creating a local management plan for Dovrefjell, the Sunndal mountains and the eleven landscape protected areas around it implies eight municipalities and three counties. It ended up driving the strictest municipality – that is, the Dovre municipality – in terms of scooter driving, and not Oppdal's regime, which is very liberal. It shows that you can take responsibility when you understand the mechanisms and when you get a broad debate about the problem. But I believe that the debate deserves attention, that one does not end up in one or the other ditch, because then we will get nowhere, and as it is today, there is no favourable solution either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2066	I think that the post that Thomas Breen had was a good one. I am very much in agreement with what he says. It's a long way to go what's taken into account in the proposal that's here. The problem is, of course, that we have a Council of States that is drawing up completely different things: population development in the districts, etc., etc., and that a party is responsible for relocation, etc., etc. I fully agree that both should be taken into account. I believe that the municipality does. They've done it in Fauske, where I come from, and they've done it in most of the municipalities I've heard of, which have been in the new trial system. Then it's like I heard Finnmark's representative say that the majority in Finnmark is against. Yeah, but that's fine. Then the local authorities will not allow snowmobile rides in Finnmark. That's when the problem is solved. The point is that this is what the local authorities are going to decide, based on national legislation. It's not like that. I have not heard anyone in this room who has ordered that we should have free slip of snowmobile rides. I don't want that either. I want it to be arranged relationships, in runs, but I also see that there are opportunities for both those who want to use snowmobiles for recreation, and those who do not want it. It's so large that there's room for both of them. But every time we have such debates, one side jumps on the fence and says that we want a full free slip on the scooter drive. That's not right. Then it's not like it's said, as the Council of State does, that he assumes that it's the silent majority – so, it's not up to the Grand Government or the government at all times to facilitate a law that only takes account of the silent majority. A law shall take account of the fact that the minority is also required to exercise its legitimate right to pursue a recreational activity. But here you don't. You say that the majority wants to ban it, and then you forbid one group to run with what they want to do. It would have been completely insane if a majority in Norway thought that boat traffic was nothing special, and then no one would have to be allowed to drive a boat – everyone had to calm down. That's how it's been put up in the snowmobiles policy. But I agree with Thomas Breen that here you have to be sober and make a suggestion that the municipalities will have to make the decision themselves to a greater extent. I am absolutely sure that most municipalities are able to do this in a proper and good way. If they don't, it's like local elections every four years, and I'm sure you're able to remove politicians who do things that they shouldn't do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2077	A brief comment to the representative Willy Pedersen: He is obviously on a collision course with his other colleagues in the north. It may not be so strange, because as the representative Svendsen was inside, there is a special piece of legislation in Finnmark. In Finnmark it's actually allowed to run scooters, in Finnmark there's actually the law of nutrition. The fast route has a concept up there, where you take the tourists out of the Hurtigruta and drive them with scooters across the mountain and get on the Hurtigruta again on the other side. We want to do this in Nordland and Troms as well. But then there are representatives, like Willy Pedersen, who say, "No, Finnmark shall be allowed, but the rest of North Norway shall not be allowed." He's right about that, and that's why he should probably get a table at Theatercafé together with Solheim. Maybe that's how Thomas Breen says, that Solheim is not at Theatercafé. It is possible to find him on Grünerløkka – I don't know, but at least you can't find him in the districts. At least you won't find him in North Norway. We haven't seen him there except when he protects. What has Solheim State Council done? Yes, he has from the pulpit here taken up the problem of forest protection in Ballangen. There he replied that he cannot decide yet because they have not made a decision, but he will listen to the people. The people need to talk! What I'm asking is what kind of people he listens to. It is a unanimous local government that has said no to protection – even SV. Now we are so lucky that SV is likely to be wiped out of North Norway at the election because Solheim has protected everything. What happens there is that even those who have been able to drive because of a handicap are now not allowed to drive up to their cabins, because the area is protected. The worst of all is that Red Cross, who operates on standby, is not allowed to drive either. They don't get to drive, they don't get to help people, but they're going to be allowed to run a call if the police take them out. How are our people in the Red Cross, who do an excellent job of keeping an alert up, going to be able to do a job if anything happens, when you haven't had the opportunity to practice? Yeah, it's possible you don't have to practice going from the toilet at the theater café and back to the table, but you need it in the districts. We have a nature, and we have a fauna for it. Then to local self-government. Where is local self-government? At least it's not in the party program for Solheim. We see that with everything that happens in North Norway. On the last rollup option, SV was then erased. They lost their representative in Finnmark, they lost their representative in Troms, but they retained the representative in Nordland with about 20 votes. Unfortunately, North Norway was so unfortunate that there were 20 who voted incorrectly. Let's hope that's corrected in the next round. So it's also that they're very concerned about the environment. It's the bad scooters -- I don't know if they're four-strokes, two-strokes or what makes the council so desperate. When the party leader comes up north – she's been in the district – she can't drive a car like the rest of us. No, she'll be flying in a helicopter. She's flying a helicopter. When she answers why she's flying a helicopter in terms of the environment, she says, "I'm doing it cheaper than the prime minister, because he's taking a private plane."
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2092	The president is very uncertain about whether the Theatercafé needs more mention in this case, which concerns motor travel in the outland.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2095	I'm not going to say anything about Theatercafé, but I'm busy -- believe it or not -- of living settlements, and I'm concerned that most people are going to have the opportunity to get good natural experiences. This discussion has always been really strange, because it is the real fight of the red-green alternative against the districts. If you travel around a lot, and I know that the Minister for the Environment does, you meet people in these small towns – people who still live there, who can tell you about an activity offer that is relatively modest after the school, the post office, the branch and the store are closed. The meeting places are gone. But they have an amazing nature, an incredible mountain home that they love to be in. Then this is the majority of this hall's answer: So great, then you can turn on the skis and go for a walk! Actually, most people don't do it today. They sit on a snowmobile and break the law, drive into the field, get delicious, amazing natural experiences, and then they travel home and look beyond a high field of wounds so large that it won't be played in generations. They're just making tracks on top of the snow. It's illegal. The high ground is a legal and a good form of operation, but it shows a little bit about what kind of perspectives we sometimes have in this hall. Making a trail on top of the snow, it's scary, it! Making a meter of deep, hard runs to take out a forest, it's great, it's! It's a strange discussion. I've got a grandmother in almost 82 years. She has a cabin in the mountain, so she thought that she would be allowed to get into this cabin in the winter. The answer is: Sorry, but you probably have to go 1 km skiing because age should not be a reason for getting snowmobile licenses to get into your cabin. You get to ski, which says of itself she can't do. Children's families, who have a roadless cabin, who are fantastic in every way, are told: The five-year-old gets to ski, even if it's 2.5 km without a road. What kind of policy is this? A destroyer of the outdoor experiences of the children. A destroyer of the outdoor experiences of grandmothers and midwives. What kind of policy is this? Then you don't even want the municipalities themselves to be allowed to deal with this issue! No, then the state should put its foot down. Local self-government shall not apply to vehicles capable of running on top of the snow. It's a strange policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2109	I got into this debate a little late, but it involves me in many ways. It engages me because I represent a state where outdoor life and motor travel mean a lot. I'm going to start from what's going on in Finnmark. The representative Pedersen made some of the possibilities we have visible. We have a lot of opportunities, and we're lucky in that we have our own regulations that apply to our own state, and the outdoor opportunities through motorized driving in winter and summer are absolutely present. This matter is also about the municipality's involvement, and I'm going to be so honest to say that I miss that the municipal commitment has a greater anchor than it really has. Under the Planning and Building Act, the municipality has great responsibility, and the municipal plan is probably the largest planning project for which a municipality is responsible. Various activities are organised through the municipal plans. So it's a little important to take into account, as Willy Pedersen was inside his post, to meet between industries and also meet between interests, those who want motorized travel, and those who don't want it, because there are also quite a few who don't want it. I feel that you are doing it through the municipal planning work we have today. But I wish that also the motorized loop network was a separate municipal responsibility, and not as it is today, that it is overruled through the county as the state's representative. These are experiences that we have been doing for many, many years. I also think that the municipality has a better chance of coordinating things and also seeing things in context. I have that confidence in the municipalities. I would like to see the debate that we are now meeting in the future, also taking into account municipal autonomy, also when it comes to motorised driving getting a greater hold in the political debates than it now has. I'll just give you an example. In the case of motorised traffic on water, you have a rule that you can't move more than 300 meters from the engine loop. Ergo: If you apply to land to fish, you get fine if you drive over 300 meters. I think that's a udder. I've said that in many ways. I have claimed it against Solheim and others as well. So there are small adjustments that should be made in a loop network in order to get a loop network that works well. Then I just want to say that in the case of motorcycling on the field, I think we have the whole Finnmark with us in that it should and should be restrictive. But I wish we were a little bit more open and a little bit more liberal in organizing runs in winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2124	I must have expressed myself rather unclearly in the first post since two of the subsequent party representatives agreed very much with me. I was also terrified that the third person who was up here would agree with me, for my main point in the first post was that the debate deserved not to go into one or another ditch. All the arguments after they expressed their agreement with me have been in one ditch. If you think that the snowmobile debate is about putting a trail in the snow, then you have to those degrees ended up in that ditch. When, in addition, I hear a vivid description of how we who live in these little, poor towns that Anundsen mentioned, live our lives, I understand that it's been a long time since he's been out in the village. It's not like at five o'clock when the store closes, nothing else happens, and the last option is to meet in the mountain with snowmobiles. No, we have quite a living cultural life, we have live sports, we like to ski, even in the mountains. So there was a very strange rhetoric -- I'll almost call it sarcasm -- in Anundsen's posts, and I'm a little uncertain about where he wanted to go, besides that it wasn't so dangerous if you put tracks in the snow. Then I'm back to my main point. If we are to debate travel in the outland, and it's about the tracks in the snow or the tracks in the barfield you're in front of or against, we've reduced this debate to a completely meaningless and boring thing. On the contrary, I believe that the debate has so many dimensions in it and deserves a different level of cause than just dealing with it. We have – and take – responsibility locally for far more than tracks in the snow. We who live in these villages are very much concerned with a living animal life. We want to manage our free time, which also includes hunting and fishing, in a proper way, so that our children and grandchildren can also operate immediately as we do. It is a matter of having a soberness in this debate, where it is not either for or against. So I have not heard a single representative from the Progress Party who acknowledges the dilemma in the debate. It scares me a little bit if the Progress Party was going to figure out how to grow, so it's going to be a state-supporting party in a few years. Before that time, we get other politicians who are able to debate this properly, find a solution to the matter that makes this stand at any switch, even in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2135	It's been an interesting debate. It has been very interesting to hear the representatives of the Workers' Party who fully agree with most people, who are the views of the Advance Party. It is SV and – to say – have representatives from the Workers' Party who disagree with the Progress Party. It's not about arrogance, this is about real politics. I understand that you do not want snowmobiles in Nordmarka, nor wolf, I think. But the country is so big, there's so much space. I mentioned in my article good procedures and strict regulation. When you're going to add up to a race, there's a lot of space. It is important to remember that the decibels that come from snowmobiles may not be much larger than the decibels that come out of Kenneth Svendsen and my boat when we drive in the summer – and it goes fast too. But it can be allowed – for so long, thank God. We have to try to see that use of scooters for recreational driving is also part of the country's well-being. That might be what Breen says: we have a lot of culture, bazaars and encounters. I've also grown up in the country, so we have. But we also need snowmobile rides, and it should be adaptable. It cannot be that everything that tastes of pleasure when it happens in rural areas is prohibited, because there are a few – whether they are sitting in one or another café – political people who say that this is not a useful policy. The Progress Party, together with large parts of the Workers' Party and the Right, agrees that we must use reason here, and that recreational driving must be able to go hand in hand with professional driving if the procedures are within the framework of the Code. No one is going to let this go, nor are we. But we have to be a little bit more liberal than what's added up on the SV side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2148	I'll give Breen right in one thing, and that's that I wasn't particularly nuanced in my post. It was not the intention of the post either. So it's not just about putting tracks in the snow. Breen said he lived in one of the villages I described. I don't think he will. If he had followed me on my post, he would have heard that I described a building where the store was also laid down. All the social meeting points go away. In the small towns, it's actually a challenge. When it's cold, it's winter, and the social meeting points disappear, it's actually a challenge for the village, especially in the countryside that's kept up by commuters, that's at home for a period, that's gone for a period, and that a desire should stay in the village, just to keep living in Building Norway, just to have people out there and light in the windows. I am no less concerned with a living animal life and the balance up against fishing, nature protection, etc. than the representative of Breen. The point is that the snowmobile policy currently being pursued, where it is the central authority that decides that you are not allowed to have local adjustments, that the balances that Breen is concerned about, cannot be taken locally, but taken here in this room, is the problem. It's actually a pretty nuanced approach. If one assumes that local politicians know their territory best, and not we who sit on the chairs in here, the logical consequence is if one wants to take care of the interests, that it is done where those interests are. It is strange that the representative Breen has not been given the examples that children’s families and the elderly who want to take advantage of the recreational opportunities that Breen can take on when taking on the skis are prevented from doing so with current legislation. This must mean that there is a relatively strong potential for improvement in this law. That is what this debate is about. Is it the case that we are going to have some sort of approach from this hall where principles are going to rise, regardless of what practical consequences it has, or are we going to have a more transparent approach? We are going to have this debate in this Chamber for many, many years to come. In fact, we are going to have this debate until the snowmobile policy changes, because more and more snowmobiles are being sold in this country. There are no more permissions than before, but more and more snowmobiles are being sold. That means this business is going on. Transport on snow happens, regardless of what this room thinks about it. The only question is whether we should make basement rings of ordinary people, families of children who travel with their kids, or whether we should make a code with which to live together, so that we take care of the interests of nature conservation, hunting and fishing, and those who do not go skiing – but want to use snowmobiles.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2159	This is going to be an interesting debate. I think it's an important debate because it's about people's well-being and people's well-being in the districts. We're not going to hide that motor travel is important to us. But it is important that we put up with a law that is adapted and takes into account all the wishes and needs, that we take into account the industries and not least those who do not want scooter traffic. What we want is regulated conditions both summer and winter. However, we do not want to be released, as the representative, Mr Tåldal, strongly suggested from the Chair. We want regulated relationships. I want, when this debate comes up again, to take account of the notions of municipal autonomy. It's a very clear lead I'd like to have into a future debate. I think that's important, because through the Planning and Building Act, we're managing other plans, where we might have a much more overall responsibility than exactly what's going on with scooter runners. I think the municipalities should be responsible for its inclusion. That is why I imagine that debate should come. I think we've waited long enough for the motor race change in the law. I hope it comes earlier than what is suggested in government signals. I hope that during this period we will be allowed to take the big, overall discussion of motor travel in the summer and winter outings.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2171	There will be a strange debate when the Progress Party heads up to rhetorical heights and produces a reality that is absolutely not there. Nikolai Astrup had a post here instead where he said it was important that we now discuss what is the theme today. But then it's also important that we have the right starting point. When you hear the progress game, you get the impression that you are not allowed to run snowmobiles, motorized vehicles, in district Norway outfields. I have done very much illegal. I've been working as a teacher at a clay school for years. The first thing I did in the morning was run snowmobiles. I had to do many turns with snowmobiles, which was the most legal, because it was a business. It was an enterprise that within existing legislation was allowed to use snowmobiles. I've been running skiers with snowmobiles for many years in the morning for the South-Fron Sports team. You're welcome. No, it's Easter soon. In my own municipality of residence, South France, many have been allowed to transport Easter guests from where they come with luggage, and inwards. When you reach the mountain, you meet the snowmobiles that do it. There are tractors wide – I was saying – like a bad year that is now running up ski jumps across the whole mountain. In my own district, I have dozens of ski jumps to go in – fully legal, controlled, regulated launch. Yes, of course, you are allowed to use a motor vehicle. It's a very good and liberal law that's open to this, while one has control over it. To present today's legislation as something that's with and destroy District Norway completely and not based on reality, is ripping crazy. What this is about is completing this legislation. Then there are a few questions: Should the municipalities be authorised to decide for themselves, for example. whether to have recreation/tourist run? In the previous article, I said that the experience you have from the experiment shows that it might be a good idea, that there may be good, sensible judgements about this in local government, which may be different from local authorities to municipalities, because they have different intentions and different possibilities. That's what this is all about. Then we have a very good lawmaking in this area. I mean, we have a pretty good practice of it. So there's still some trifle that one in Soria Moria II has said that one should complete during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2186	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is over. But since we have one more speaker on the list of speakers in case No. 10, let's drop to the last recorded speech, and that's Nikolai Astrup. Then Councillor Erik Solheim, who will also have the floor before we take a break.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2189	I have to admit, I had lunch at the Theatre Café today. It shows that it is possible to combine the position of the Right with that of eating at the Theatre Café. It disproves a claim claimed in a previous post. I must also admit that I agree with Thomas Breen, and there I join a large number of speakers. But I hope he is more satisfied that I agree with him than he was with the previous ones. For the representatives of the Labour Party today, almost exclusively the two proposals that have been promoted by the Right have argued strongly. It is rather surprising that the representatives of the Workers' Party do not take the consequences of the arguments they have consistently promoted through the debate and vote in favour of these proposals, which would guarantee them a majority. Yesterday I was not quite satisfied with this alliance between the Right and the Workers' Party. But today I feel that we could have come up with something positive together if they had voted in favour, and then it would have ensured a broad majority in this Chamber of the Workers' Party, the Right and the Advance Party. So they have that possibility later today. I encourage the representatives of the Workers' Party to take the consequences of their positions on this matter. So the representative Breen was also concerned that there are not only positive elements of increased local self-government, and that there are balances, and that is quite obvious. It's balances, I totally agree with that. But it is also important to refer to the Norwegian Institute of Natural Research, NINA, when it came to the applicable testing system. They say the following: ‘Test scheme with locally adopted snowmobile loops according to the Planning and Building Act showed that all six sub-targets for better motor traffic were fully or partially met in the test municipalities.’ It shows that the municipalities that have been given responsibility take responsibility, and they can manage that responsibility in a good way. I think we should have confidence in the municipalities and implement the proposal that lies, namely increased local self-government within national guidelines, which, of course, also takes care of the other considerations of important natural values and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2205	When I listened to the debate, I also needed to make a confession of sin, and it is that, like the representative of Astrup, I have also been to Theatercafé. It wasn't this morning, as in Astrup's case. I think it was three years since I was there with the wife. But I've been there, and I just have to admit that sin. I'll go a little further and say that I'd like to be there more often, because there's a nice place where it's nice to be, and you can have a lot of a nice chat. One of the reasons I get to be there very rarely is that I travel a lot in District Norway. I think I've been to 400 of the country's municipalities. Now I hear that the speakers of the Progress Party are much more well known in District Norway than I am, so I really just want to challenge a little peaceful battle for knowing which of the representatives of the Advance Party’s big group has been in more than 400 municipalities. There are several representatives here who can send over that list. And then we can compare how much around the county of Norway you've been. Tomorrow I'm going to Flekker Island by Kristiansand to address an environmental issue that people are concerned about in the South. It's nice to visit it too, not just North Norway. As far as the debate is concerned, I would like to say that there have been many good speeches. I would particularly like to highlight some of the contributions from representatives of the Workers' Party – Thomas Breen, Kåre Simensen, and there have been several – all of which have been nuanced. That's exactly what we want to be. We have to find a proper balance in this area. I take the whole distance from those who think this is either–or. We're going to have scooter rides for some specific purposes, also for joy, but we're also going to have clear restrictions that make those who don't want to run scooters, or those who run scooters one day, but who want to go peacefully in the mountain the other day, are going to be allowed to do so. That's the balance that the government's working on. We've softened up in some areas to make a better balance, and we'll come back to the Storing with new recordings in this area. Of course we will, among other things. address the many nuanced views expressed in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2214	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox The vote will now be adjourned, and the sitting will be resumed at 9.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3376]] The meeting was cancelled at 0 p.m. 16.06. The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2230	The size continues the handling of the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2245	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2254	In the previous case, we got several eruditions of how beautiful nature we have in Norway, and that is true. Norway is a country with an incredibly fine nature and important natural values. It is important that we can maintain and manage these in a way that makes nature available to people now and to future generations. I am very pleased that we are now in the final phase of the implementation of the National Park Plan. The plan has been a cross-political project that I have experienced has had a great deal of support from several governments of different colours, from 1993 until now. Outdoor life and the preservation of the nature of future generations are something that the Workers' Party is very concerned about. Facilitating outdoor life is the best investment we can make in terms of public health. Yay the last thing: I've never had snowmobiles, so I'm one of those who's forced my kids out on skis, out in the snow, with real shoes, out in the heath. They weren't very happy then, but now they're very happy that they've learned how to use nature, and they realize how important it is to public health. It is also true that there has been a lot of talk about socio-economic profitability in winter in our committee, and investment in outdoors is at least a measure that is socio-economically profitable. The National Park Plan is not a complete list of all nature conservation areas in Norway, but it is a start. That we now mark the finalisation of the plan with a proposal to facilitate another national park, I think is very positive. Local anchoring is central to putting in place good solutions and good processes around the protection of areas. The working party is fully aware that protection processes are often controversial. For this reason, it has been important for us to ensure local anchoring and participation and to ensure that local forces are managed with the management of national parks once they are established. The pulpit is an important natural area, and it means an incredible amount to us in Rogaland. It is gratifying that there is local involvement in this matter. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we have good processes around these matters. Just because we want to ensure local interest and support, it is very nice that work is now being done to see if new protection processes are to be started in Norway. Until that work is completed, we can enjoy the great work that has been done since the Stortinget adopted the National Park Plan. The protected area in Norway is now 16.5 pst. After the government change, 399 new areas of protection and 50 extensions have been created. The Nature Diversity Act provides the framework for protection, and areas concerned must comply with the requirements laid down by the Law for protective values. It is also necessary to assess whether nature types are covered by other protections. I refer to the suspension and to the letters of the Council of State, and consider the matter to be submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2277	We're approaching a level of 17 pst, which is an explicit measure of the protected area. Protection processes are often controversial, and it is important that such processes are implemented on the basis of local interest and support. It is also important that local forces that have managed areas through generations are involved in further management, as it is precisely this type of use management that has led to the desire for conservation and conservation of important natural areas. The Party of Progress is clear that local involvement must be in place, the new protection status must have the necessary legitimacy and support. It must also be such that local plans under planning and assessment must not be transferred in the process of protection. The economic development side by side with protection is often painless if local assessments are taken care of, while we know that if the protection status comes into place first, everything is locked up for the future. Unfortunately, we have all too often seen plans and aspirations for power development that do not threaten or challenge the purpose of protection – despite the great need for renewable energy production. It is often a paradox that those who call for the highest level of emission-free energy production are the same as those who put their heads in the wheels for just this type of expansion in or near protected areas. The so-called comparative advantages can be found in District Norway, such as waterfalls and others, are protected on the basis of misunderstood protective hysteria, where SV usually leads and deducts the edges of the possible nutritional potential. We have had an ongoing debate on the nutritional possibilities, or the lack of them, in the previous case, so I will not repeat it. The question arises as to whether the district party of the Senter party will also in this case be as absent and anonymous as in the previous case, about motor travel in the outland. It's about local government and governance, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2296	Government and Stortinget have overall responsibility for providing important natural values for future generations. Biological diversity and untouched nature are difficult-to-measure values and are just as difficult to replace once degraded. Important natural values must therefore be managed from a generation perspective, based on the recognition that these are values that are not just an inheritance from our ancestors, but just as much a loan from our children. It is a recognition and a responsibility we must take seriously. During the Bondevik II government, new speeds were set in motion in the protection work in Norway. The protection area of the Norwegian mainland was increased by almost 50 pst. 350 new protected areas were created and 27 protected areas were extended. Eight new national parks were established. On the right, it is noted that the government has continued its efforts to protect important natural values. It's positive. The area that goes under the name Preikestolen is unusually beautiful and varied. The proposers quote Kristin Krohn Devold, head of the Tourist Association, who believes that the ‘Preikestolen and Lysefjorden are unparalleled in Norwegian nature’. The area connects mountains and seas in a spectacular way. The variation of the landscape, with vertical stump, forest, lynghei and snaufjell, is special and characteristic. The area is home to many rare plants and animals, several of which appear on the national red list. Therefore, the proposers provide good arguments for the establishment of a national park in this area. However, the right is concerned that the protection of new areas is implemented on the basis of local interest and support, which must also be the case for the possible establishment of the Preikestolen National Park. In addition to local anchoring and support for the creation of new national parks and protected areas, it is essential that the administration also takes place on local premises. National responsibility for the establishment and expansion of protected areas must not call into question local and regional responsibilities for the management of protected areas under the Nature Diversity Act. The central government must have confidence that municipalities will and can take responsibility for their own natural areas. It is the municipalities directly affected by the restrictions that are protected to determine. The State shall continue to establish the protection and develop the regulation governing the use and management of the site. Within this framework, it must be for the municipalities themselves to decide which use of the site is beneficial for both protection and population. Many municipalities would prefer protection through use rather than protection through hermetisation. Protection through use tends to help ensure the legitimacy and relaxation of the purpose of protection. Therefore, municipalities themselves must take an active part in their own development, which requires a greater room for action than is the case today, and that the management of national parks, landscape areas, nature reserves and other protected areas are added to the municipalities concerned. This will strengthen local self-government, without degradation of natural values.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2311	It's a little bit of a work done on the National Park Plan, a work that many parties can be proud of, including the previous speaker's party. It was a good post from the representative of Astrup. The debate on national parks helps to adjust an image that is sometimes provoked by some in the opposition, of protection as an unconditional evil. On the contrary, a case shows such things as: Langsua that a lot of different considerations can be reconciled and that you're satisfied with the result. That is exactly what is important, because no one is served by a political debate in which protection is only discussed with conflicts of interest as a premise. On the contrary, I think it is quite obvious that it is an unconditionally good thing that we take care of the different values that we have, and keep them high even when they collide with possible short-term benefits. This is what a lot of people agree with. That is why we see at regular intervals that rapporteurs and municipalities themselves want to initiate national parking processes. We can see that in North Norway, and we can see that, for example. on the world's most beautiful peninsula, Fosen. It is an initiative that originates in local democracy. The Ministry of the Environment is now carrying out the nature evaluation of Norwegian protected areas, including: to assess the need to initiate new protection processes. At the same time, it is incredibly important that the anchoring of new large-scale protection projects comes from below, so that clarifications between different considerations can take place at as low a level as possible and that as many as possible can feel the ownership of a possible new project. The last one might be especially important. There's no doubt that the Preike chair is a fantastic area, with a number of great values. Therefore, I am pleased that the Council of State has announced that the Preike chair will be involved in a possible assessment of new protection processes, and that the Council of State has given a good and positive response letter to the Committee. I know, for example. that my partisans in Rogaland SV are very positive about making the Preike chair a national park, and I think it is wise now to facilitate that local work can continue. It is a locally anchored work, with great enthusiasm, that makes – regret the use of words – the suraed article from the Progress Party quite incomprehensible. It must be possible to smile a bit even when talking about such things, when it arouses local enthusiasm.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2322	It's a fundamental value for the Center Party that we're going to leave the Earth to the next generation in at least as good a condition as it was when we took it ourselves. The management idea and the interaction between people and nature lies at the bottom of our environmental policy. Protection and protection of nature is a national responsibility. It is necessary to preserve biodiversity in order for humans to reap from the renewable resources of nature. But at the same time we see that wise use can often be the best protection. Sustainable use, where diversity is preserved, can be the best way to preserve biodiversity and the values of future generations. Therefore, it is important for the Centre Party to listen closely to those who have managed these values through generations when assessing future protection. This applies to both the landowners and the local elected bodies. If the Preike chair is to be protected, it's central to the Center Party that there's a wish for it locally. Any safeguard decision must be locally anchored and there must be local understanding of protection purposes and measures. It's not given that protection, as Left wants, is the best solution to take care of these values.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2333	The United States is in many ways an ideal both in terms of nature conservation and in terms of the ability to look for national monuments, including nature. They have their own concept of the national monuments in their nature, and they have been good historical to take care of that very thing. It is probably with a little inspiration from the fact that the Left has presented the proposal today. We were very proud of the job that was done by Councillor Børge Burnde under Bondevik II, to see how we can take care of our nature in a long-term perspective. I just want to make a comment on that. It's pretty pointless to deal with climate challenges, if we can't take care of nature as well. I guess it makes no sense to think that we're going to deal with all the major climate challenges if we're not going to take care of the natural environment around us. Then there's nothing to tackle the climate challenges for. We have to be able to build this society on so much quality and so good a solution that we can take care of both the climate and nature. It is striking that there are parties in this room who ask questions about whether there are at all climate challenges, but who are very concerned about bringing forward climate challenges when we are going to take care of nature. I think that's a slight contradiction. But to say something about this protection proposal in particular: Rogaland has no national parks. This is an area that is very special, both from the monumental path we can pick up from the United States, and the fact that this is an area of great variety that contains several species that are red-listed, where we're going to take care of plant life, wildlife, cultural memories and the enormous variation in nature. So this is a unique area -- it's special. I want to address the proposal that has been distributed. It says that it is Borghild Tende that promotes it, and it must be, but I am going to do it. For us, it's sad that we don't get any more support for this today. With the words with which the Senterpartie concluded their posts, I don't feel very sure that the job is actually going on. What I can promise is that left-wing people in this whole area are going to show that there's a lot of local commitment to also getting this in terms of goal. What we're going to do now is we're going to bring this up in every local government in the whole area that's affected, to lift this from the grassroots that was wanted here. The left is both here and on the grassroots. We're going to make this big promise, and then we're going to see what the parties mean locally, in terms of taking care of as unique areas as the nature area we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2348	The representative of Trine Skei Grande took up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2351	The size could be proud of the national park plan on which Thorbjørn Berntsen was founded in the 1990s and which is being completed for all practical purposes this year with Langsua and Rokkamborre as two national parks we are already in the process of implementing. They'll be open for the summer, and maybe some others too, but basically we're in the goal of the National Park Plan. Of course, it is natural to consider whether there are other candidates outside the scope of evaluation. There are two periods which appear to be of particular importance when writing the history of national parks. As was said here, during Børge Brende's period as Minister for the Environment, a number of national parks were implemented, and that is the period of the red-green government, where even more national parks have been implemented. But it's nice for once to have a competition about who's the most environmentally friendly in Stortinget, after debates where there seems to be competition about who's the least environmentally friendly, who's on the agenda. It is also nice to see that while the Progress Party almost only speaks negatively about national parks when they are here in Stortinget – I listened with interest to hear if there was anything positive, and it was certainly a few positive words about the environment, but it is essentially negative – it was a proud progress party rapporteur on Outer Whaler who accepted me when we were there. He had rightly fought the national park until it was established, but when it had arrived, he was very proud of it. When ‘Godafoss’ was grounded within this national park, the rapporteur from the Advance Party at Hyler was very concerned about this, and drew the National Park out as an argument that we had to get better sailing leaders and better unloading systems in Oslofjorden – otherwise sensible measures. Local initiatives have been taken that could give us new national parks. Snorre Serigstad Valen spoke of the ‘most beautiful peninsula in the world’ – that’s the Fosen peninsula. I also meant that when I represented the South Tronde Team – let me say it this way – but there is a lot of truth to it. There is a plan for the National Park of Djapma, which can be treated at some time, although there is still a lot of work to be done. And now we have a debate about the Preikestolen National Park. In that assessment, there are at least two considerations that need to be given weight. One is the relation of such a national park to the Nature Diversity Act. There is no doubt that if such a national park were to be implemented, there is a national park area that has intervened from the outset, which is not normally in national parks. These include power development, control station, roads, parking spaces and other interventions. I am not saying that this prevents such progress, but at least there are things that need to be assessed. And then you have to evaluate the localization about it. I believe that now that we have implemented the National Park Plan, the possible proposals for new national parks with a broad local connection will have great chances of being implemented in the Stortinget. Where local digestion is small, chances are small. It's only possible to clarify the process further. The fact that Trine Skei Grande warned that the representatives of the Left in the area would be involved in the matter is only positive. The representatives of all other parties are free to do so, and that process will then clarify the extent of the upsurge. But let me say it this way: it is going to be very, very much for a national park that has a broad local uprising to be denied by me as Minister of Environmental Protection. I already believe that I can safely say will not occur. So let that debate go, and let's see how big the local uprising is through the different political processes. It is also a natural matter to take a stand in a municipal election campaign if you want or do not want such a national park. Finally, I must remind the opposition that we have now implemented the local administration of national parks. There are now representatives from – believe it or not – the Right and Advance Party entering the National Park Boards around the whole country. It would have been nice if it was also reflected in the rhetoric here in Stortinget, that their local representatives enter the National Park Boards. Of course, it varies with the municipalities in which you have the rapporteur, the kind of things and who is elected, but there will be many from the Right and the Advance Party – I might say too many, but it is just about personal taste. But at least it is certain that the opposition parties will also get a hand on the steering wheel of the local government. But it is the red-green government that has implemented the local administration of national parks that was not there under the Bondevik government, so it would have been nice to really get some praise from the opposition for doing this, and that we now also bring the Right and Advance Party into the country's local National Park Governors.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2368	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2372	Let me also be one of those who express joy that we have national parks that give us the ability to take care of the biological deficiency, etc. I personally enjoy going into some of these, so don't let there be any doubt about the joy of many of these national parks. At the same time, we will also challenge the methodology that is used when a protector, including this with protection through use. Indeed, protection through use often strengthens the purpose of protection. The use of nature and local care is what has given us many of these national parks, which have made them so beautiful and so valuable that we have found out that we want to protect them. We now see that large resources are needed to secure these national parks. The question is: Will protection through use, as described by many, become a priority approach to care for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2381	Let me first without hogging just say that I'm glad that the Progress Party expresses joy over the national parks. Very, very many of them have been fought through by other political forces against the will of the Progress Party. But once they're there – as External Whaler is a good example – I'm glad that the Progress Party then sees the significance of them. But it would help the environmental debate if the Progress Party was helpful even when we fought them through, not just in retrospect. When it comes to the question of protection through use, I'm a fundamental member of it. I think most of it is best taken care of if it is used. It concerns cultural memories and nature. It gives a much stronger local uprising about it, and it provides stronger foundations for protection. Of course, in the case of natural areas and cultural monuments, it must be in such a way that their use does not destroy the purpose of the protection, whether it be untouched by nature, cultural heritage or special habitat types. As long as the use can only be adapted to the purpose of protection, protection through use is the best protection – as the Progress Party also says.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2390	The councils are very pleased that he gets to place the Right People and Progress Party people in the management of the National Parks. If he's biting, with bad people, I'll always be able to spat up some good left-people to such positions, too, if he wants to. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. The left and the left have a similar commitment to the environment, but the SV may have a little less fascination for the United States than what is found in the Left. That's why I want to challenge the Council of States on it with national monuments, which, of course, the United States has. The pulpit is perhaps one of these national monuments of nature that we have in Norway today. I wonder if the Council of State also has a fascination with the way of thinking about nature protection and environmental protection that you can take care of some such monuments that are created by the Lord of Spring, or who you now think it is who created it, which is actually an image of what Norway is visually from nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2397	Let me share Trine Skei Grande's fascination with the United States. The national park idea arose in the United States. The world's first national park, Yellowstone, is in the United States. I think Roosevelt once said, "There is nothing so American as our national parks." So the Americans have absolutely a great deal of the credit for this idea. I also have a great sense of the idea of what is called national monuments, but I don't think they can arise from me adopting them or by some random processes. If you want to get it started, it must first be a thorough professional assessment of what these qualities have to do with it. Secondly, it would also largely be a question of what the Norwegian people themselves feel is the things we have the greatest reason to be proud of, whether it's cultural memories or natural memories. But a process and a thinking around it I just want to look positive at.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2404	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2409	I want to describe the Preikestolen area with the words of Kristin Krohn Devold, leader of the Norwegian Tourist Association. She used the following words, as set out in the draft representative: ‘The Praeze Chair and the Lysefjord are non-comparative in Norwegian nature.’ I have registered that the representative Astrup also used these words, but I think that a good thing cannot be said too often. There is no doubt that this nature must be well managed, but that does not mean that the area should become a national park. The Preikestolen area is today an important area for energy production, but also an important area for travel and nature experiences both for Rogaland’s own inhabitants and for the many visitors. It's my impression that today's use is done in a proper way, and that the municipalities in this area are concerned about preserving the values that lie here. For the centre party, it is important that the protection must have a local anchorage and any establishment of a national park must also have a local anchorage. I don't experience any unambiguous involvement from the local environment to initiate a process as Left wants. The left takes up such a proposal before any local decision is taken on it. I believe that you start at the wrong end. But I look forward to the Left now taking up these suggestions in local government, so that you can do things in the right order. I am satisfied with both the majority's position in the case and the reply letter from the Council of State. A process of setting up the Preikestool National Park should not be initiated until the local decisions are in place. The proposer was concerned that Rogaland today has no national park. Then I have to say that I do not feel that the electorate of the Center Party has an independent goal that we will also have our own national park.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2429	When we have such a good thing to say good-bye to you, I'd like to say good-bye to you too. I'd like to join Krohn Devold's words. I'm originally from that municipality that has to go through to the Preikestool, and I've been to the Preikestool for a long time. It's a very popular destination, not least for tourists. The Stavanger region also markets the Preikestolen area as the great attraction, and cruise tourists and other tourists are either driven by bus in to go up or take a boat in to see this amazing attraction. Rogaland SV fully agrees with the Left's proposal that this should become a national park. We also took this up and would like to take it up with the local government. But I agree with the letter sent by the Minister for the Environment to the Committee on the proposal. Now there's a set-up, one must get a local anchor so that the municipalities will do so. Just as the image is now local, so there are some vocabularies who protest about this, for example. in the municipality of Forsand and in the municipality of Hjelmeland. I think that the process that the Minister for the Environment is now setting up will ensure that one has a basis for making decisions, but the most important thing is that we get the debate going locally and make sure that there is a local anchoring of this. That's what SV wants to do, so we can really realize this as a national park. I would like to congratulate the Council of State and all of us who want to work for a national park in the Preikestolen area. I hope we get this done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2442	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3376]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2458	In Norway, a high level of confidence is attached to the correct implementation of the choice. The implementation of choices requires the establishment of a comprehensive apparatus in each municipality, with many detailed procedures in which all electoral officials must intervene in order to ensure the correct implementation of the choice. The choice is carried out every two years, and that means that it is not a routine task, which poses challenges for ensuring continuity. In Norway, we trust that this will be done in a proper way, and then it is our responsibility as politicians to regulate the electoral law when we now see that it is necessary to maintain the good trust we have in the Norwegian election implementation. In spring 2009, the law on electoral elections introduced a new provision for observation of elections. According to § 15-10, the Department has the right to accredited election observers upon application. The OSCE conducted a limited election observation at the 2009 elections. Following the election, the Ministry has evaluated the implementation of the elections by carrying out a wide range of surveys in municipalities and county municipalities. The OSCE pointed to some aspects and asked the Norwegian electoral authorities to assess changes in legislation or procedures, and so we have done so. In the light of the feedback and the ministry's evaluation of the elections, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs of Prop. 64 L proposals for certain changes to the law on elections, and the following amendments have been proposed: An obligation for the public register to establish a provisional number on 1 April, based on the voting conditions, for the control of electoral lists. This is Section 2-5 of the Election Act. A right to ask for exemption from making a choice. Requirements for list candidates not to be able to serve as voting recipients or electoral officials. Requirements for the sealing of ballot boxes during voting. Saturdays shall be treated as public holidays for the purposes of calculating the time limits laid down by law. At the same time, the proposal for the following amendment to the municipal law is promoted: the requirement that list candidates are not eligible for vote. The Committee has examined these proposals, and I will go a little further into the various proposals. First of all, it is clear from the election law that the public register authority is to make available to the electoral authorities information on who is to be introduced into the municipal population. This implies that the public register sets the date of intersection as soon as possible, which is the date on which the municipality in which the voter is voting is located, and shall make the number of votes available to the municipalities. The date of entry into force of the electoral law is 30 June of the year of the election. The responsibility also implies that, after the date of the cut-off and until the date of the election, the public register authority shall make available to the municipalities the changes in the population register which affect the entry and printout of the number of persons, because a new number is created for each election. A large majority of the hearing bodies support the proposal for a provisional number to be assigned on 1 April of the electoral year for the purpose of verifying candidates and signatures by the county councils. The Committee has looked at this and cannot see that prior access to provisional ratings will have an impact on the printing of ballots, as long as the time limit for approval is the same, namely 1 June. The 2009 election evaluation shows that the county electoral councils want an extraction of the population register as early as possible, but at the same time there should be a minimum difference in relation to the normal population produced on 30 June of the electoral year. We support that amendment, that is to say, an overall committee. The next thing I'm going to go into is the obligation to make a choice, which is also referred to as the ombudsman's obligation. It is governed by the Constitution and the Election Act. The ombudsman's obligation is the principle that the voter can also be chosen without having given his consent. It's "without having given his consent" that we've looked at a little bit. There are some reasons for exemption which make it possible to claim exemption from having to appear on an electoral list. In the case of roll-call elections, one can demand exemption if one has voting rights in another state, has met as a representative of all the magnifications since the previous elections, or is a member of another political party. In order to require exemption from the requirement to be on an electoral list in county elections and municipal elections, one must have been a member of the competent body for the last four years, be entitled to exemption under other laws, be a member of a political party other than the one on which it is listed, or be unable to discharge duties without disproportionate difficulty. Following its observation of the 2009 Grand elections, as I mentioned earlier, the OSCE requested that the relationship between human rights and that part of the ombudsman obligation entailing an obligation to be on an electoral list should be examined. It was in particular the fact that membership of other political parties allowed the OSCE to ask questions about whether this was in line with the principle of freedom of association, because freedom of association also requires freedom of association. So if you don't want to be a member anywhere, you have to be free to let it go. It is out of the question if the citizens feel that they must join a party with which they do not agree, in order not to be elected as representatives of a party with which they do not agree. The exemption rules for wholesale choice are laid down in the Basic Law. Thus, the provisions on the ombudsman obligation in the event of a rollover cannot be amended without a constitutional change first. In the case of local and regional elections, the provisions may be amended by the electoral law and that is what is now proposed. This was justified on the part of the Ministry by the fact that the real need for exemptions from the ombudsman obligation is greater in local government and county elections than in decision-making. There are also few or no comparable countries that have such a statutory obligation, and it is difficult to point out that there is a special need for such rules here that other countries do not have. Although the ombudsman has a long history in Norway, society has also changed a lot. The fact that everyone has a responsibility for the community and that participation is a civic duty is an important element of our democracy. There may therefore be good reasons for maintaining the ombudsman’s obligation, albeit in a slightly narrower form. It is therefore proposed that it should be sufficient for a person to submit in writing to the electoral authorities that they declare that they do not wish to be included in the list in question in order to obtain an exemption. It is that you must not express or deny political views. However, active action is still required to be exempted within a specified time limit, and there is an overall committee that considers this to be a good assessment. So over to the rules for time-limiting: The Ministry has proposed to us that the rules on time-limiting in the first, second and third paragraphs of Section 15 of the Act be amended. This implies that Saturdays are treated in the same way as public holidays with regard to the start or expiry of time limits under the law. Thus, the legal text is adjusted in relation to developments in society, where Saturdays are established as a day off for large groups of workers, both in public and private activities. The Committee agrees that Saturday is a holiday and supports this. So I'll talk a little bit about requirements for list candidates. After observing the decision-making process in autumn 2009, the OSCE took up the practice of using list candidates as members of the Electoral Board and voter. The OSCE noted that potential conflicts of interest may arise during the resolution of the elections when list candidates are involved. The minority of the Committee agrees with the assessment that persons who make their own choices should not at the same time have roles as voting recipients and election officials in a polling room. It is important that the elections are felt as neutral as possible, and the SV, the Central Party and the Workers' Party, which are the Committee's minority on this point, believe that it will strengthen this principle. Restrictions on the eligibility of the list candidates to voters are proposed. Based on the same assessments, similar restrictions are proposed for voting and electoral officials in the polling stations. The Ministry has stressed that only those who make their own choices in the current election, and not politicians in general, are subject to any restriction. In view of the fact that several municipalities believe that the restrictions will cause practical problems, the implementation of the proposal will be added to the 2013 elections. This will allow the municipalities sufficient time for conversion and for adapting to a new regulatory framework, as well as for a good transfer of competences. There are already several municipalities that want to mannounce voters without using list candidates. Until then, there will be contributions from the Ministry to strengthen this work. The Committee's minority believes that this will have a positive and inclusive effect on local democracy – that more people will be included in the electoral winding-up processes. If I know the majority of the committee right, they'll explain their own views later. So I'll talk a little bit about sealing election tournaments. With regard to the issue of sealing, storage and transport procedures for electoral material, something is regulated by the Election Act and something is regulated by the Election Regulation. The Committee considers that the proposal that the ballot boxes should be sealed also on the day of the election and in advance of the vote is such an important principle that it should be reflected in the electoral law itself. This has also received solid support in the consultation round. In this way, it is signalled that the requirement of the electoral law on the sealing of ballot boxes through all phases of the electoral process is fundamental and an important contribution to maintaining confidence in the impartiality of the electoral administration and that the elections are conducted with integrity. A Joint Committee supports this. Of course, it opens up for practical solutions. When the urn is full, the seal must be capable of being broken, etc., but it is important that good procedures are established for how this should be done in the event. The last thing I want to mention is a legal change in § 2-7 of the Election Act. It says the word ‘changeable’ instead of the word ‘written’. The entire Committee agrees with the Ministry that typographical errors should be corrected and therefore supports this amendment. I take this up with me the proposal of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2529	The representative Jette F. Christensen has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2532	Let me first thank the President-in-Office for a good piece of work. She was thrown into this matter a little late because of changes in committee composition, but she has done a very good job and made a very good contribution and a good account of the Committee's view and treatment here now. As the rapporteur said, it is a unanimous committee that supports most of the amendments promoted by the government. However, there is one reservation and one clear disagreement. I want in my post to focus on the two things. The reservation is related to the changes to the ombudsman obligation, where the government of the proposition assumes that similar changes proposed in this proposition should also apply to grossing-up. Then it is a prerequisite for a constitutional change to be made. Neither the Progress Party nor the other opposition parties will address this issue now. Supporting some simplifications for practical reasons in the obligation to ombudsmen for local people does not automatically support similar changes for elections to the Stortinge. The great disunity – to the extent that it may be called – is whether or not to restrict the rights of citizens selectively for list candidates. Today, people who participate in democracy by making themselves available on electoral lists can also participate in the democratic processes of the electoral room. There they may participate in voting boards and may participate as electoral officials or as receivers of votes. The background to this scheme was probably first and foremost of practical importance. Those who participate in democracy by making choices also have insight into the processes of the electoral room. They are available, cheap in operation and concerned with the optimal implementation of the choice. Most people probably think of this as some kind of community service. But it also has important principal aspects because it is a democratic right to participate in democratic processes, including the democratic arenas that the constituencies make up. The majority of the committee believes that today's system is a good one, but the government and its parties in the Storting will therefore prohibit the participation of list candidates in these democratic processes. It is a somewhat strange approach, and the majority believe that there should be strong reasons for restricting democratic rights for citizens who, incidentally, wish to be listed candidates. In addition, there is no specific negative impact on that scheme, i.e. there are no disadvantages documented. The only thing the government says is from its own chest and to the extent that as a consequence of the OSCE report, it can theoretically weaken the voters' confidence in the electoral system if list candidates can still participate in democratic processes in the electoral room – despite the fact that there is no empire, nothing that supports this view. I think it is sad that the Storting will later today decide to restrict the democratic rights of list candidates against the will of the majority committee – not because this is necessarily a very big question in itself, of very great importance, but perhaps because the Storting once again drops a bit of the principle democracy debate and replaces it with a sort of peripheral debate on theoretical issues. This restriction also has the practical importance of making choices more expensive, in particular elections over two days, because many municipalities already use municipal staff with full rights to fill the polls as a complement to politicians both on and off the lists. Of course, if the policy entry is removed, or significantly reduced, the costs of implementing the elections will increase, and this may lead to fewer municipalities implementing elections over two days to save money at the expense of democratic participation. At the same time, several are likely to reduce the number of polling stations for the same reason. So that means that today's proposal could have consequences for participation in elections, and that would be very negative. That is probably also why the entire 33 municipalities have opposed this amendment, and only 14 are in favour. The Government is being implemented in the Storting for this restriction of the democratic rights of the list candidates by a limited majority. So they force them through the government's will, despite the fact that there is no obvious reason for the restriction. I think that is a pity, but majority rule is a consequence of democracy, even in terms of restricting democratic rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2551	Both the rapporteur and the representative Anundsen have had a good review of the main lines of this case. I also want to touch these, but I want to focus on the last thing Anundsen had to say, this is about the change in who can sit in the polling room. It is stated in the proposition that because there is a short time for the elections, this will be implemented for the first time in 2013. In 2013, it's a big shot. In other words, the problem will then be quite small because there are very few big candidates, if one goes around every municipality and sees who is a candidate. I don't think it's so common that at least the first ones on the roll list are sitting in the polling room all day and night. I myself have been sitting on the vote board in the Drama several times, and it is mostly with politicians who have been sitting there. What has been crucial for me and for the Right to oppose this proposal is that we have a long democratic tradition in Norway that the voters are composed of positions and opposition. It is the representative of the position who is in charge of the voting board, but the opposition is also involved, so that the danger of electoral fraud or of having one influence in one direction or another, I see as small. It's clear that if you get into a polling room where it says five times Martin Kolberg or five from the same party that's going to make sure you give the right vote, I'd say it would look a little bit special. But we don't have that tradition in Norway. Then we have another thing in Norway that the Council of State is very aware of and very happy with, namely many small municipalities. In many small municipalities, it's a challenge to get people to sit in polls, especially if you're going to go to a purely professional arrangement where employees in the municipality or others who get headhunted are going to do that job. As far as I can remember, the proposition says that this case has no financial costs. It is possible it does not have it for the state, but for the municipalities it will have a significant cost if, as Anundsen pointed out, one actually has to pay those sitting in the polls full pay, preferably overtime, that they should sit there two days, etc. There is a number of more expensive schemes that make many municipalities struggling with the economy, of course, consider this when assessing whether they should have two days of choice, how many polls they should have, etc. This is a bad suggestion. I think it is a little special that the government also in this matter trumps through its will, just as it did in the matter of e-election. One can ask for control there. Now I'm not going into that debate, we've had that before. But that there is disagreement, and that the Storting is divided into two in several cases that go on the electoral process here in the country, I think I'm quite perceptive. It is a little disappointing that the government does not try to make an effort at an aggregate level when dealing with such important issues as democracy and elections. This is a bad suggestion. It should not be adopted. At least I don't think it's a good idea to try out the scheme first in 2013, because then the issue isn't very real. It is only when you get to the next municipal elections that this will be a real problem, where in small municipalities with 1 000 to 2 000 inhabitants, there will be major problems in training an electoral worker's corps, where you will get a lot of money, and where it will probably help to reduce the ability to vote. What we want, on the contrary, is that as much as possible should be able to vote on election day in the widest possible polling space. This proposal goes in the wrong direction, and I cannot support it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2564	In Norway, however, it is important to maintain continuous follow-up and evaluation to ensure that this confidence is maintained. At the same time, it is known that system changes themselves can often contribute to an increase in the risk of errors. Therefore, it is important that we do not adopt changes just for the sake of change. One of the biggest changes in the setting is the change of § 3-4, which deals with a general exemption rule from selection to filling and local government. The OSCE, the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, has requested that the obligation to make elections be reviewed in order to ensure full compliance with the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights. It states that no one should be forced to be a member of a political party or forced to state his political position. The ombudsman obligation has a long tradition in Norway, but at the same time it is a rather strange phenomenon. Today's legislation does not require consent to be nominated on an electoral list. To demand exemption, one must either have been in employment for the last four years, be able to prove that one is a member of another political party, or be unable to take care of the position without disproportionate difficulties. Today's practice, on the other hand, in my experience, is that all the list candidates are asked, and that a wish not to appear on the list is respected by all parties. In this way, we can say that today's practice is now being legalised. Another significant change is that list candidates for filling or local authorities are no longer eligible to vote as voters or may be voters or officials in the polling room. I notice that the opposition describes this as a reconstructed problem. In its evaluation, the OSCE writes: ‘In order to prevent actual or perceived conflicts of interest, or situations that may be perceived as conflicts of interest, the OSCE considers that list candidates should not be able to participate in the polling boards and electoral boards.’; On the way, I agree that this is not an actual problem in Norway, but with this change, list candidates will avoid feeling unwarranted suspicious. An electoral officer shall not only check the identity of the voters and receive the vote. He or she also has obligations to assist the election candidate in the election in case one wants it. Often this selector applies to people who have different degrees of dementia. I have many times felt uncomfortable to be asked to help find the right party list when I have been a candidate for the list. One realizes that other voters in the room may wonder if one is tempted to influence the selector. I would like to make it clear that there are only list candidates who cannot serve as officials in the polling rooms. Instead, it seemed that all politicians were excluded from being an electoral officer, but that's not the way it is. In my home municipality, there is a practice in which former politicians, former municipal councillors and local councillors who have not re-elected will continue to be eligible for these boards. I don't think there'll be a need for paid civil servants in all of these functions. I think there are still many politicians who are not on the electoral lists and who can fill these tasks as before. I would also like to make it clear that this does not apply to the choice of the harvest. The municipalities therefore have plenty of time to prepare. If that's the case for municipal elections only – we don't know that until it comes up as a constitutional case, if any – then they have four years to prepare for this change. Minimum opening time requirements in the constituencies have also been discussed. We have a huge gap in the number of voting rights per constituency here in Norway, actually from 4 people to over 10,000. So the need for adaptations to opening times and other adaptations will be very different. The centre party believes that the municipalities themselves will be best able to adapt both opening hours, choice of local and logistics in the room according to local needs and without new state requirements. On the other hand, the universal design requirement is, of course, a firm one. The selection room shall be accessible to all.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2593	The case-speaker has done well for the proposals that have been made and for the Committee's position on the matter. For a long time it looked like the committee was supposed to be behind government policy, but then there was a postponement, and there was a change, so the government was standing alone at one point. It's actually at this point that I kind of understand the objections that come from the purely practical point of view of some small municipalities. So the dilemma is that one actually has been criticized for having this system. The OSCE has criticised us for having a system that they don't think is fair in terms of choices. That's what's the starting point, that the government is trying to come up with its criticism of the OSCE. That's why you came up with the setting that a manager should be setting today, just to remove that criticism. Then, like Greece, I would point out that the government has said that one should introduce this in 2013, but in practice this is going to be introduced in 2015. So one has a significant time period where one can train on these practical challenges, which I totally agree with those who criticize this, in is there. Then you can make sure to work on this for many years, get this in place so that there is no problem, and solve the problem that the OSCE points out that we have today. In addition, you can turn this to something positive, as well as a number of others will then be dragged into the drive of the option. I think it's wise that we now have the time we actually have to do this, because I think it's right that there are challenges on the purely practical. But the practical problems can be solved from time to 2015, and I think we have actually renewed Norway in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2606	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2609	The representative of Langeland points out that the OSCE has criticised us on this point – and that is correct. The reason for the OSCE is, to the extent that it is adopted by the government, that it can in theory cause doubt. But the OSCE has given us criticisms in other areas as well. Among other things, the OSCE has criticised us as a nation because Parliament itself approves the outcome of the elections, that is, those elected to the elections approve the outcome of the elections. Why has this not been accepted as a government amendment if it is such that all comments from the OSCE should be automatically followed up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2616	There is exactly what you should not do. One should follow up on the things that one of mine improves democracy. That's what we're trying to do with this grip now. I think that both the Progress Party, the Right Party and others who speak against this should look at the point that I now mention in my post, that this is not going to happen until 2015. Then, in cooperation, we can make sure that we put in place a system that actually gets more people involved in driving the vote, we actually get more people involved in running the election campaign, and then take away that element of criticism that is tied up against polls and list candidates. I myself have been in the poll many times, sitting many times in the polling room. I see that there may be a problem attached to it, and if it is practically possible to solve it, as the government proposes, until 2015, I think it is a very good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2621	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2625	We in the left want to comment on three things. The first thing I have to say is what I was perhaps most contacted about by the rapporteurs at my own national meeting. We have many rapporteurs in small municipalities. In small municipalities they look very dark at implementing choices without being able to use any of the ones on the list. In Oslo this will not be noticed, because in Oslo this is done today. In Oslo, there are mainly municipal guards. This will not lead to any problem with the liquidation of elections in Oslo. But it is clear that in Flatanger or in Rørvik this will lead to problems. There it will lead to a huge cost, but it will also lead to problems. I believe it is important to take seriously the message received from international electoral observers, but I also think it is important that international electoral observers analyse our democracy from our history. I always think it's a good general rule when you have to solve a problem, that you actually ask yourself if it's a problem. I think it is interesting if the Council of State can say in its statement that it has ever been pointed out that someone has felt pressured in Norwegian polls because there is a politician there. I have to say that it seems even more strange to me that it's only those who stand on the election, who can influence, and that as party leader I can be an electorate at the Old Town school because I'm not on the election list. I am absolutely sure that Espen, who is in third place with us for the district committee, will be seen as much less pressing than me as the party leader in the same election room. I'm guessing that there are no party leaders – out of politeness context – who choose to do such a job, because you might have an additional authority in an election room, but that no. 7, 8 and 9 at the bottom of the list, which maybe people don't know who's even, they're going to apply such a pressure, I think I'm very strange. This is an observation from democracies who are young, from observers who do not know how long Norwegian democracy has worked this way. This is to solve a problem that doesn't exist, and the argument is out of hand. Then I'm going to raise a concern over one of the rules that are being introduced, and which I think the Council of State must be extra aware of. Today we work a lot in the games to make the most of the lists. I think we in the left have increased the most, and there's been a huge effort in the party to have that list position. Today, when you ask people to be on the list, you know that old people have the opportunity to ask for an exemption. But there won't be any news that they've passed 65 or 67 after the list is handed in. It's a familiar factor when you ask people to be on the list. It is not that they suddenly get seven to eight years older during the list. Joining another batch is a pretty big barrier. And if you've asked any face to face if they want to be on the list, it's considered a pretty big barrier to say that you'd rather join another party to end, when you've actually said yes to someone. So there's an agreement between two people quite a lot worth. With the legislation we are introducing today, that is, everyone can say that no, I don't want to, and we remove the ombudsman obligation, you can stand in a situation where you have delivered many lists, and where a person has said yes because you want to sabotage the party's list in the municipality. You can deliver a list with seven names, and a person can say yes because he knows he can destroy that list's name by just saying, "I don't want to." This is going to affect the list position. I would like the Council of State to assess it, and to assess it, for example. whether it is possible to supplement the list of electoral councils if someone withdraws with that justification. It could have slowed down so that someone actually tries to sabotage a party's ability to set up a list, and takes the six others on the list of options, because you have a little ambush attack on the list, to say it like that. I think it's got to be taken over by the president, because it can be a big problem. The last point that I want to make, and that happened in this list because of a little bit of fuzzy communication from the ministry, is the time for the listing. Making choices in Norway is very few professional politicians who do. There are very few who are full-time politicians in Norwegian society compared to the number of thousands of people sitting around in local government. This means that most of the political work in Norway is done in the evening, and I am pleased about that. I'm glad we don't have a professional democracy with just professional politicians doing everything in the daytime. That is why the last hours between the closure of a public office and the fact that, as the rapporteur is, an elected trustee can receive the list are actually an important part of democracy. That means that we don't have to have full-time politicians in all the municipalities to make sure that we get to deliver the list in the last few days. I think it's important that the time is now. 24.00, and as long as a rapporteur or adviser is found who is willing to accept the list before 31 March. 24.00, that's actually the right limit. Putting the limit to 0:00 p.m. 16:00 the same day will lead to many fewer choices, because there are many lists that you get to the goal of the last day, plus that not everyone has such professional organisational apparatus. The last round of reminders on the last day can remind many of the lists that ended up on the kitchen table after the nomination meeting and that did not find the way to the rapporteur. So having free-time politicians get the opportunity to deliver lists at the right time, I also think it is important to bring them along, and I think it is quite unfortunate that many municipalities and county councils have acted by the deadline. 16.00, which I believe is misleading in relation to what is the basis of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2638	I am pleased that the Committee is essentially supporting the proposals made by the government. However, I am surprised that the majority in the Committee does not support the submission of restrictions on what tasks list candidates may have in the selection process. As is known, the OSCE was invited to observe the implementation of the collapse option in 2009. What the Storting has presented today is the follow-up to a written call from the OSCE after their election observation. I think it's hard to defend that we have rules different from those in other OSCE countries. It must be a premise that we base the international principle of the implementation of elections also in Norway, regardless of whether we today have great confidence in the implementation of elections. Of course, I share the Committee's view that a minimum degree of discretion should be given to the inhabitants. At the same time, it is necessary to have a wider perspective on this matter. In my opinion, it is, in principle, problematic that candidates who make choices themselves have tasks under their own direction. In the polling room, all electoral officials shall act independently from a political point of view. List candidates, unlike everyone else, will have a personal interest in the currency, and that's why the OSCE has asked us to assess the practices we have here in the country. Debts about undue influence actually occur at each option, even if this has not been demonstrated. And the possibility of – or suspicion of – such an impact can help to weaken trust and create negative attitudes to whether the election implementation is correct. I think that if you ask the voters, they'll think it's problematic that those who make choices have tasks to do with the voice in the selection room itself. I'd like to think that more people are thinking about the local elections in 2007. At the time, the issue was very relevant in the municipality of Drammen, as a list candidate was responsible for influencing the selection of a selection room. Saga was very concerned about the election in the Drama. The drama municipality has taken the consequences of this, and no longer uses the list candidates in their polls. It is true that this change has some practical consequences, but it should not be more difficult to solve this for us than it is for other countries. I am sure that the municipalities will be able to solve the practical challenges that may arise. Otherwise, I think that the voters should be more able to participate in the implementation of choices. It could, in my view, have a positive impact on local democracy and strengthen the individual's experience of participation in society. According to the government’s assessment, there is a need to look at the organisation of electoral work at a central level. In the proposition, it was thus signaled that the government wished to come back with a closer assessment of this. Such an assessment has not been made, but there are additional expectations as to which governmental authority should be responsible and monitored in the selection area. At the same time, there is an increased expectation of a more uniform regulatory framework and the practice of legislation. As a result, the Ministry's tasks in the electoral field have increased to an extent in recent years. This increase is waiting for us to continue. In addition, there has been a strong focus on Norwegian legislation and compliance with international standards. International standards have led to stronger government governance than we have traditionally had in the electoral field here in the country. Increases in the number of tasks include: linked to the establishment of a government-controlled census, the development of a central administrative electoral data system owned, managed and operated by the State, and increased awareness of information and training and experimentation. Both the National Election Board and the Powers Committee have said, after previous elections, that they are positive for the development of a central administrative electoral data system. Such a system shall be tested in 10 municipalities at the option of the autumn. Ruling to all municipalities, maintenance, management and operation of such a system will require an extension of both technical and operational tasks in the future. This makes it necessary to look at the organisation of electoral work, even if one ignores the purely principleal arguments that the responsibility for elections lies with a department headed by a constitutional government council. I regret, therefore, that the Committee does not believe that a centrally independent electoral unit should be created here in the country – without the government being able to assess this and other alternatives more closely. All in all, this is a matter in which important questions of principle are discussed, and I am glad – as I said in the introduction – that the Committee essentially supports the proposals proposed by the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2672	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2675	I agree with the Council of State that there is an important fundamental question as to whether list candidates should be allowed to participate in the democratic processes of the polling room. There is an equal amount of fundamental question to the question raised by the Council of State as to whether list candidates can influence. This is a problem raised by the OSCE and to which the government has adopted the argument. However, in order to limit citizens’ rights, there needs to be some good arguments – other than theoretical issues. 33 of the municipalities that have been heard in this context have said that they are against the law. Only 14 have said they're for. These are actually the closest ones to notice whether this is a real challenge or not. What is the reason why the Council of State ignores the clear advice of the municipalities in this matter, in a question of principle very important?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2684	The most important thing is that the inhabitants have confidence in Norwegian democracy. The confidence that elections are conducted independently, without undue influence, is an important element that the OSCE has taken up and that – as the representative rightly says – the government has moved on to the Stortinget. I think it is possible to apply options even if the list candidate data is not working – to use that word – in the selection room. Even in smaller municipalities, I think it would be possible to do this in a good way. There are several examples at each option: complaints and claims that are made about an improper effect. The most obvious is what I referred to from Drammen in 2007.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2689	There are many complaints about elections in Norway, surprising many. I had the pleasure of sitting on the proxy committee after the big shot last. There are a number of complaints about a number of issues, such as: is the list that disappears and reappears. We experience in our democracy some challenges that many other democracies also experience. But does the Council of State really believe that the system we have today, which allows for peripheral candidates – candidates far below the list – to participate in the polling room and work there, contributes to a weakening of confidence in our electoral system? Does the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs really believe – today – that we cannot have sufficient confidence in our electoral system because of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2696	When the OSCE was invited to be an election observer in Norway, it was on the same basis as when Norway participated as election observers in other countries under the auspices of the OSCE. As a result of those observations, recommendations are made. We want the countries where Norway is an observer to follow the advice given. I think it is important that when we invite the OSCE to be an election observer in Norway, we actually also follow the clear, clear recommendations that come, and that we thus ensure – if not necessarily today – that we will be distrusted of the Norwegian electoral system in the future. And trust in democracy is first priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2701	According to the Rules of Procedure, this is just two lines per representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2704	Then I think the president needs to read again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2709	The next replicator is Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2712	It's clear that it looks like the Center Party is going to be with the Left in the fight to get bigger municipalities. This is not a problem in the large municipalities, but there is going to be a huge problem in the small ones. But that's not really what I was going to ask. I would like to ask further about the possibility now to renounce the ombudsman obligation – and the consequences of it – given that someone can use it to stop parties from promoting lists. Has the Council considered the consequences – whether or not it should have given lots the possibility to supplement lists in the event of withdrawal of the ombudsman obligation in order to prevent individuals from stopping lots from making lists?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2720	It is true that the vast majority of lists have a better margin than what the representative Skei Grande refers to: that one has only one individual or two to go on. One must also wait – I think from my own experience, at least – that one has talked so clearly with them a set on the list that such cases should not occur. What has been presented to Stortinget today is not based on the fact that one should have the possibility of supplementing it. Of course, if this proves to be a problem, it is something that should also be considered. So I want an opening for that, but I didn't think it could be a big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2727	No, it's not sure that there will be a big problem, but you can imagine that you can easily boycott a party's participation by calling and signing up to be on the list, and then all of a sudden get a little bit of time a few weeks after listing to stop the party's ability to make a list. So this will affect the way the games work to get the lists set up. But I also want to follow up on what Anders Anundsen said. The Council of State is very concerned that we should follow all the OSCE's advice. But we do not follow all the OSCE's advice, so why is any advice more important than any other advice given to our democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2734	The councils that are associated with undue influence in the polling room, the government believes it is important to follow up, because there have been discussions about this in several choices. I mentioned the case in the drama, I could also name others. The fact that such claims are made, that a few discussions about whether the choice is properly implemented, I think I'm unlucky for the trust that people should have it impartially, and that one can go to the polling room without being unduly affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2739	Does the representative, Anundsen, want another line? - No, I'm not.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2742	I had – as I have had many times before – the joy of voting at the last election at the Eagle School in the Drama, and the Stortinget has just heard the Council of State refer to the experience of the Drama within this field. When I cast my vote at this school at the last election, there were well-known politicians and list candidates present in the hall, but they had no direct contact with the voters, as they have had before, in order to show the way to the openings and to cross the number of people – but that's what I'm going to get back to. There are some good proposals in this document, including: the change in the exemption rules, which is a significant simplification. I don't really see this as a loss for the ombudsman, but as an adaptation to how the law has worked in practice. If you had a desire not to be on a list, you could have avoided it by taking – let's call it – a short-term subscription in another party, or by seeking exemptions for welfare reasons. Alternatively, one has been unable to meet when one is elected, or fails to engage, and I don't think this has been beneficial to local democracy in cases where it has been. You don't become good and committed municipal politicians by being forced into an election list. So to this with politicians in the polls. I have some experience both as a member of the electorate and as a local politician for 20 years – and also as a bigotry politician, of course. One thing is the input that comes from the election observers. Another thing is when the Council of State draws up the municipal elections in Drammen as the only concrete reason for the Norwegian case. It is absolutely right that we have had unfortunate experiences with the behaviour of list candidates in the election rooms in Drammen. Some were eager to explain to the voters not only how they would vote, but also what party they would vote on – so eager that they would follow the voters far into the poll, pick up the ballot for them, and put it in their hands. This was particularly linked to candidates with a migrant background, and in particular from two parties: the Labour Party and SV. I don't think this necessarily shows a need for a fundamental change to the law, but it shows that there is a need to be careful if you're the leader of a voter, and that there is a need for our new countrymen to be trained in how to behave when you're in such a position. You can't necessarily go and scrape a perfectly functioning law just because someone with a migrant background is getting along. There are a number of issues that could have been discussed more in this debate. There are at least some questions that have not been clarified either by the case rapporteur or by the Council of State. In the comments made by the majority of the Committee — the minority in the Grand Duchy — it points out, among other things. What about ‘political activists, members of organisations and the like who are not list candidates but who have obvious interests in the election outcome both politically and in relation to individual candidates’? They would also have a major problem of stability in relation to who is to be chosen. This could be done, for example, by: be the local trade union leader who has gone out clearly and clearly and said that he hopes for a working party/SV majority in the municipality. What about the list candidates' family members, business relations, friends, etc.? They also have a pretty big interest in the election outcome. In other parts of Norwegian legislation, we perceive them as inhabile. I see this as problematic and something that has not been answered in this debate. With regard to the decision that is to be taken today, I believe it solves a problem that does not exist, and it causes the municipalities more economic and training-related problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2763	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3377]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2779	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2788	This case is about improving the local authorities' assumptions in order to provide a sufficient number of housing with lucky day care and health care facilities. I would like to further use the concept of care facilities for such dwellings and places for convenience. In the proposal, the Government proposes to increase the grant rates for care facilities with retroactive effect, as announced in Prop 29 S for 2010–2011. As part of the Committee’s examination of the matter, an open hearing was held on 15 February 2011 with the participation of several organisations. There is an overall committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, which is behind the Committee's recommendation for a decision. The grant for nursing homes was introduced to help municipalities with the promise that it could be to invest in a large number of nursing homes. The investment grant is a key instrument for achieving the objective of the Health Care Plan 2015. The measure has also been important for municipalities. Since 2008, a total of 4,047 places have been committed, but the amount of applications fell significantly during 2010, and all funds within the framework have not been used. The government has an ambitious goal of creating 12,000 care places. In order to achieve this objective, municipalities need to have frameworks and assumptions that enable them to do so. The task of the county councillors to prioritize the municipalities receiving grants has been terminated with effect from 2011 through Prop. 1 S for 2010–2011. At the same time, the distribution of frameworks between regions and counties was also lifted. The proposed change in grant rates goes from NOK 666 600 to NOK 888 800 in 2011, or an increase in the subsidy rate from 30 pst. to 40 pst. the costs of hospitalisation facilities. Similarly, an increase of 10 percentage points is proposed for housing with day-to-day care services. Many municipalities have a tradition of cooperating with housing teams or other ideal actors to provide care facilities. A review of the rules for the re-allocation of the grant from municipalities to such non-profit actors has therefore been carried out. Since the review shows that it is impossible to assess in advance who can receive the grant without breaching the State aid rules, municipalities have in practice been cut off from cooperating with other actors today. In order to remedy this situation, the government proposes to amend the rules so that the grant is paid to the municipality and the right to re-allocation is lost. The condition for payment to the municipality when the places are finished is that the places have the services of good luck, that there is detergent adaptation and universal design. In addition, municipalities must ensure a well-meaning right of assignment for 30 years, compared to 20 years today. Today, municipalities in Norway manage more than 18.5 million square metres of purpose building. The sector is one of the country’s largest property managers and is best placed to manage buildings in a good way. There is therefore a basis for pointing out that providing municipalities with flexible frameworks that ensure good welfare for citizens is important if we are to achieve the ambitious objectives. These changes shall ensure that municipalities can cooperate with NPISHs and housing teams without breaching the State aid rules. The accounting base of a building is written off over 30 years in this case. However, there is reason to point out that construction can have a real value in terms of either value in use, a technical value or a plot value even after 30 years. The town hall in Bodø, for example, which has stood for 50 years until next year, has definitely a value, even though it appears most often in the accounts as a cost item. For many local politicians, as for the majority, it is obvious that the municipality will in many cases be the most appropriate owner of the buildings in which welfare services are to be provided. It is not a goal to have as many people as possible living in a nursing home in Norway. On the contrary, it must be a goal that as little as possible live in nursing homes with good luck or in nursing homes. The aim must be to make it possible for as many people as possible to live in their own homes for as long as possible. But for those who need it, there should be provision of nursing homes, and the changes proposed in this case are an important step towards success. Equally important may be the interaction reform and the focus on prevention measures that lie there. If more people can be healthier, it will be the very best measure to provide adequate care homes. In the wake of the cooperation reform, I believe that this will be the basis for discussing how we can contribute to the other end of the scale. How can we ensure that measures, ranging from smaller home adjustments to larger conversions, can be taken so that more people can live longer in their own homes? We're going to get to the next crossroads. With this, I recommend the Committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2816	The Progress Party has several times proposed a significant increase in the investment grant for the construction of new hospital and nursing homes. At the latest during the review of the 2011 State Budget, the Progress Party proposed a total of 1.5 billion. kr more than the government for this purpose. In view of this, of course, the Progress Party believes that it is positive and a step in the right direction that the government is promoting this proposal. The party of progress is also pleased that the parties of government have now abandoned their rhetoric that what was previously proposed by the party of progress is irresponsible. The Progress Party has also proposed several times in the past that private operators should be allowed to receive grants for the construction of nursing and nursing homes. It is therefore gratifying that the government is also following up on this point the earlier proposals of the Progress Party and the policies of the Progress Party. Although the government with its proposals takes a step in the right direction, the development of nursing homes and nursing homes is too slow. The Ministry’s own figures show that there has been only a net increase of 699 hospitalisation sites in the period 2005-2009, which is far below that promised by the government, at least in election campaigns. The Progress Party therefore fears that this proposal is not sufficient to bring about a development that is good enough to meet the needs of the country’s older people and will in the future. The Progress Party therefore proposes that the investment grant per hospitalisation site be set at 1.3 million. NOK and that per care seat is set at NOK 866 600. The Progress Party disagrees with the setting of an upper figure for the number of new places that can receive grants per year. For now there is an alarming need for both nursing homes and nursing homes. In that case, local authorities' applications for grants must be based without a ceiling per year. So the government has laid a ceiling of 2,000 places per year. That's what we want to remove. We want to be much higher – the needs of the municipalities are the relevant ones. The Progress Party points out that what prevents the necessary development of nursing homes is clearly the operating costs that municipalities do not have the means to cover. When they have no promises or faith in improvements in the local economy in the years to come, they simply do not dare to bet. We point out that in the last ten years it has been a central objective to achieve full child care coverage, that both investment grants and government operating grants have been properly invested in both private and public kindergarten actors, and that the objective of full child care coverage has therefore been achieved. The Progress Party believes that what is now necessary is to create the same development for the health home development, i.e. a fixed and permanent operating grant in addition to the investment grant. An operating grant must also be granted from the State to both public and private health care homes complying with the same law and legislation. The Party proposes that such an operating grant should be introduced as soon as possible and that it can be easily implemented from this year on, for example. from 1 August 2011. A fixed operating grant may be introduced by withdrawing transfers received by municipalities today, in order to receive an operating grant instead of the general framework transfer to the municipalities. You have an earmarked grant, so that you can base your build-up and future plans on continuing this in the coming years. The party to the progress is of the opinion that the amount of an operating grant must be determined in such a way that, within the current system of municipal responsibility, the municipalities have an incentive to operate rationally, based on the municipal proportion. It is therefore necessary to investigate and assess more carefully, but an operating grant of the size of NOK 350000 to NOK 450000 per site should be an appropriate level. Finally, I would like to mention the proposal of the Advance Party in this vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2839	The representative, Mr Hagesetter, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2842	I'm pleased with the change that the government is now adding up to. We will support the setting. When I still feel the need to say something, it is because the case-rapporteur, who made a very good speech, forgot an important thing when he made his statement. He talked all the time about non-profit institutions and housing companies. But the government clearly writes in this proposition that this grant should go to the municipalities, but that it opens up to private actors. Then I see that the government parties in their comments place great emphasis on the fact that it is the housing construction laws and the ideals that they like to see become partners for the municipalities. In the right we don't have the ideological barrier, so we like to see the municipalities decide this for themselves. If the municipality then thinks it's okay with a private actor like, for example, operate a nursing home, with the rules of 30 years of responsibility for the municipalities, etc., it is quite fine. I am pleased that our law now adapts to a reality that many municipalities stand in, in which they will be able to choose which partner they will have. The most important thing is that we build the necessary number of nursing homes and homes, not who builds them. The municipality has a responsibility. The municipality shall operate and be part of a grant partner. But whether it's voluntary, residential or private, is subordinate as long as this gives good and decent places for the part of the population that needs it. So with that clarification, which I am pleased with, and which the case-rapporteur was skillfully unable to mention, namely that this also applies to private actors – it is important that the municipalities are informed about it – right-wing support the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2851	This proposition presented by the government is an answer to two challenges. One is that it's an answer to the challenge that I've experienced when I've traveled around a lot of the country's municipalities, where the municipalities have said that with the old grant schemes, they can only manage to build enough nursing homes and nursing homes. That's why we came up with the increase that we've now taken on, where we're increasing the grants to nursing homes by NOK 222 000, and similarly we're increasing the support for the various nursing homes by 10 percentage points. There were sick homes as the first, and nursing homes with luck care as the second. In this way, we continue to strengthen the care for the elderly, on which we have all gone to the elections. We are clear that we are going to be able to achieve our goal of 12 000 new health homes and lucky day care places. It's a little bit important for us to make it clear that we're talking about both, because around the municipality of Norway, there are very, very many people who are confused that some people are just talking about hospitalizations, while it's probably too many people are as good to get an offer on the nursing home, precisely because you get the opportunity to live in what's a separate apartment in some sense, as far as possible, and many people see it as living in a nursing home as better than living in an institution. So we're responding to the challenges of the Municipality of Norway through the reinforcement that we're doing. There is no doubt that some of the jobs you have to do, such as: The rapporteur was in the office, making sure that more people can live in their own homes, we do partly through the job we are doing here now, by strengthening the grants. But we also do it through the work done by the Ministry of Local Affairs and the Government, by ensuring that new homes are universally designed, because it enables more people to live in owner-occupied dwellings for as long as possible, with different forms of home services. And we also do that through the efforts of the House Bank to get more dwellings converted by lift. I was at a conference last Monday, where it was found that housing laws that have upgraded their homes by lift have considerably increased their value, in addition to the fact that one of the people who was sitting in a wheelchair, who had to have moved, could have the opportunity to stay in their own apartment. There is no doubt that the job of providing universally-designed housing is an important job for the government, to prepare us for more elderly and more people needing universally-designed housing. We also respond to the needs of municipalities to differentiate their offers. It is quite right as, among other things, Gardensets from the Progress Party were concerned, namely that the cost of operating these services – running the nursing homes and nursing homes of the day – is what costs municipalities over time. But now we are making sure that the investments can be made, and we are making sure to continue the escalation of the municipal economy, where we have made sure every year that the demographic costs – the costs that municipalities receive in extra costs of getting older – are covered. There's not anything that's been to the municipalities in vain under every government that's been sitting here, to say it carefully. So let's do that. The second challenge we are responding to is the challenge that came, among other things. for the housing construction laws. They were largely involved in the first promise, which we made in the previous round for nursing homes and nursing homes, while they were excluded from being in this round. We have answered that, and we have responded in this way, because we have seen that this is the way that – as we interpret the legislation and the framework – is possible within the current EEA legislation and State aid legislation. So that's why we put this in place. But there is no doubt, as the case-law rapporteur, Mr Sivertsen, said, that nursing homes that have been built now have the right to remain in place for only 30 years. If I had been a municipal politician somewhere, at least I would have thought it was pretty stupid to leave these nursing homes to private owners after 30 years. I have received input from the trade union movement, and I have seen very specific recordings and offers given to municipalities, where private operators come forward and say: We offer a comprehensive funding package which means that the municipalities have 30 years of availability, and 30 years later we own these nursing homes. It's not a development we want. That is why we will have a report on how these nursing homes are being built, so that we can follow developments, and it is absolutely necessary that governments, landfills and KS go together to continue working to see what room we have for action to provide non-profit organisations within the framework of the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2868	The need for new hospitals and nursing homes is growing, and for the government and the Central Party it is important that society assumes responsibility for providing sufficient space in the future. The Ministry wants to increase the investment grant so that it can reach the target of 12 000 new health care facilities with lucky day services by 2015. An increase in the State investment grant, as outlined in the suspension, is a good and appropriate instrument to achieve that objective. For the Centre Party, it is gratifying that municipalities are now given greater freedom of action and are given the opportunity to choose other partners on the development side, if the individual municipality considers it to be the most appropriate. The government has ambitious objectives in terms of the development of nursing homes and housing with the care of the lucky day. The Central Party believes that all good forces should be invited in order to realize the many building projects locally that are needed to achieve this goal. The proposed grant scheme is just so flexible that it can deliver concrete and rapid results. While the government opposes the privatisation and commercialisation of basic health services, the Centre Party does not see any problem in the cooperation of municipalities with NPISHs, housing companies or construction companies for the construction of hospitals and nursing homes. The most important thing now is to get the volume up as fast as possible. The attitude being debated today is an important step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2879	Older people must be guaranteed the right to due care. This means, among other things: a hospital or nursing home when you need it. This was, in fact, an important part of the agreement on a guarantee of dignity for the elderly provided by the Christian People's Party with the government parties and the Left in 2007. The Christian People's Party has called for the state to take more of the hospital bill, including: We proposed it in the revised national budget last year. For the construction has gone too slow, and it admits insofar as the department of this matter as well. The government’s proposal – which we are now considering – to increase the incentive grant for the construction of hospitalisation sites from 30 p.m. to 40 pst. and for the construction of care homes from 20 pst. until 30 p.m. is good, and the Christian People's Party supports it. Then we're going to hope that this increase in the investment grant will lead to an increase in activity, that there will be more hospitals and nursing homes built. It is quite clear that one of the reasons why this is slow, is also that these buildings should be operated, and the operating costs are large. For municipalities that experience a rather tight economy, it is clear that, because of this, construction may have been withheld. We hope that these are measures that will increase activity, but we also need to look at the costs associated with the operating grant. I hope the government will follow it up in the budget we are going to deal with during this year, because if we are going to reach the target of 2 000 nursing homes and nursing homes, we also have to give money to fill these buildings with content, so that it not only becomes empty shells. Otherwise, I register that it has to be opened up for the municipalities to cooperate with both private non-profit institutions and housing companies. I think that's a very good grip. Many municipalities have good experience in cooperating with both private non-profit institutions and housing companies. Being able to invite others to do this is likely to lead to increased activity. So I'm pleased that the government has opened up for this. I'm recording that there's a lot of nice talk about non-profit institutions. I hope it's more than a party speaker. So far, the non-profit sector is struggling, not least because of the tendering policy that is operating. But I'm going to end by saying that the Christian People's Party is pleased to increase the incentive subsidy, and that it opens up so that more people can join in and pull this load.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2894	The strengthening of the investment initiative proposed by the government represents a large increase in the state support for the development of care facilities with a full-day service in the municipalities and to health care centres. The total cost to the State of the increase in the redundancy rates for the 12,000 care places that are the target in the Health Plan 2015 is 2.5 billion. kr, from SEK 6,3 billion. NOK to SEK 8.8 billion. kr. This will lead to a greater pace of development of care facilities across the country. It is important, for the elderly, to be well taken care of. At that time, municipalities must have a good enough financial framework for their work, so that older people are given the opportunity, either by voluntary means, to make the most of their homes or by getting a full day’s care. This government has seen to it that there has been a great deal of care from 2005 on the municipal economy. We chose to bet on care instead of tax havens for them most of the time. The commitment of 10,000 more carers has been met for the longest time, and municipalities have been given a boost to their economy. Today's strength will make the municipalities better equipped to meet the care challenges we face today and for years to come. I am therefore pleased that the Municipal and Administrative Committee is joining the government's proposals. At the same time, the local authorities are becoming more flexible and clearer. In order for municipalities to be treated equally, it is important for the government that municipalities that have already built, or are in the process of developing care facilities, should not come out worse than those that have started now. This gives us an increase in retroactive force. This is an extra gift package of about 730 million. to the municipalities that have built up places since the scheme was introduced in 2008. Municipalities that are entitled to higher contributions will receive this automatically and do not need to submit an application to the House Bank. The payments to municipalities will be made in the spring. The capital of the municipalities to allocate investment grants further to other actors is liquidated. The background is that it is necessary to provide general assessments as to whether an award would further lead to a breach of State aid rules. The risk of regulatory infringements may have led to a reduction in the activity of the scheme. I'm busy being a big room for municipal self-government. It is the municipalities that know best which partners are involved locally. The change we are proposing could contribute to greater local self-government. This is a change that I think will give you good solutions. I am particularly busy with the voluntary sector in this context. Now the municipalities can choose whether to build care facilities on their own, or whether to enter into agreements with housing companies, barricades, non-profits or other commercial operators. The investment proposal's policy will be changed accordingly. But I want to make it clear that the additions are only given to the municipalities. From 2011 onwards, the task of the county councillors of prioritising the municipalities to which they belong has changed. At the same time, the distribution of warrants at the Husbank's regional offices and counties is lifted. Together with the measures in Prop. 65 S has helped us to ensure that local authorities have a greater place in their work of providing a right to care for the future. Under the new scheme, municipalities must secure the right to provide care for their care facilities for at least 30 years, compared to 20 years after the current rules. This does not prevent municipalities from agreeing on the right of assignment for more years. Developments in the use of investment grants will be reported. This proposal is one of the most important tools we have in the care of the elderly. If the changes that are now being made to the scheme prove to have some unintended consequences, we will, of course, consider measures to counteract them. In other words, the government will follow developments in this area closely. It is also important to stress that over the entire period of government, the government has been busy strengthening the general economy of the municipal sector. Of course, the fact that one has covered the demographic costs, but not only that the municipalities have been given free incomes to dispose of both elderly care and other important tasks, is also important to continue in the years to come, so that the measures that are now under way, the building that is being built, are filled with good care for our elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2930	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2933	Even if the government and the red-green parties open up little to private players, it shines through the fact that a does not like private players, and that a does not like competition. A few years ago, Chinese leader Deng Xiaoping said: It doesn't matter whether the cat is black or white, only he catches mice. The Progress Party wants government funding for basic welfare services. It shall not be for the individual to have to pay for it himself. But whether it's private or public that provides these services, we're less busy, as long as the services are good and those who receive the services are happy. My question is, why is the red-green government less pragmatic when it comes to this with private actors and competition than Chinese leaders in China are?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2940	It was a strange comparison, if I may say so. But it's totally wrong when one stands in this room today and says that the government is discriminating against private actors. That's exactly the opposite of what we're doing today. Today, the government opens up so that the municipalities can choose – one gives a room in local democracy to choose from, one will use barricades and agreements with them, or one will have commercial actors or non-profit organizations. The key in this matter is that one does not conflict with state aid rules and that the public procurement rules are followed. It's completely open to the government. We do not discriminate against commercial operators in this matter. Here's an equality that makes it up to each municipality to choose how they want to expand.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2945	It is also admitted in the setting that there has been too late construction of both nursing homes and nursing homes. We fully agree with that. But does the Council of State think that there can be a link between the free income of municipalities and this refusal to build faster? Could a tight local economy actually be the cause of too slow a move?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2950	If it's such a context, it means that one in previous years would have zero expansion. This government has increased the municipal budget and the free revenues significantly compared to what has been in the past. I'm very happy and proud of that. Then, too, municipalities have had more inhabitants. They have several older people, and the municipalities use the money well. I believe it is important – the government knows it, and the government takes the consequences of it – that we also follow what we have done today to invest, to secure funds for operation. We'll get back to that and discuss it a little later in the year. But I think this government has shown us that we are concerned that the municipalities should have room to operate the measures as a set of actions, whether they are within health and care or school and kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2955	Replication cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2960	The government's objective in the 2015 care plan for the number of sick homes and homes with a full day care is to provide support for the construction of 12,000 places by 2015. Even if the government with its proposals now takes a step in the right direction, the Progress Party believes that the development of care facilities and sick homes is too slow. The ministry's own figures show that we're right in claiming that the government is far below its goal. The Progress Party has several times proposed a significant increase in investment incentives for the construction of new sick homes, most recently during the treatment of the State budget for 2011. We proposed to increase the maximum premium from NOK 666 660 to SEK 1.3 million. kr to each hospital place. We proposed a total of 1.5 billion. kr more than the government for this purpose. Now there may not be government funds for investment that is the biggest problem in municipalities. When we travel around and visit our local politicians, there is a requirement for means of operation for nursing homes and sick homes with which we meet. It is therefore inconceivable for the government to lure the municipalities with investment incentives to build many nursing homes and sick homes, and at the same time to put the municipalities in a situation where they lack the means to operate them. This heartache comes as much from local politicians from the government parties as from ours. It is a step in the right direction that the government is now proposing a reinforced investment grant for nursing homes and sick homes, with retroactive effect from 2008. The incomprehensible thing is that the government does not support its proposal for an alternative state budget in 2008, which was similar to what the government is now in favour of. The members of the Government Party then said that the proposal from the Progress Party was irresponsible. So now it's not irresponsible according to them. If we are to achieve a rapid build-up of several nursing homes and hospitals, we must do the same thing when developing kindergartens. Therefore, the Progress Party has an own proposal for a new regime with state support for the operation of Sickness Homes as of 1 August 2011 and this will be submitted to the Stortinget in the context of the revised National Budget for 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2973	It was good news when the government announced that the municipalities would receive £2.5 billion. SEK in increased grants for the construction of nursing homes and nursing homes, and that the scheme should have retroactive effect, so that 730 of these million will go to municipalities that are in the process of development. This means that municipalities that are already building do not come out worse than those that are to be built in the future. In my county, Akershus, this means, among other things. for the municipality of Nesodden that they receive an additional allocation of approximately 6 million. kr. The investment grant is a key instrument in the 2015 care plan and facilitates long-term planning and investment in the municipal care service. Our objective is to provide grants to 12 000 care facilities in the period 2008-2015. Between 2008 and 2010, funding was allocated to the construction of 6,000 sites, but the demand for grants from municipalities has been slightly lower than expected. Therefore, in order to speed up the construction activity, State grants are now being increased. In addition to increasing the appropriations, the government is committed to making the scheme more flexible for municipalities, by providing grants also to municipalities that choose to enter into agreements with non-governmental organisations, housing companies or private enterprises. We want to change the legislation, so that each municipality can decide whether to extend itself or through agreements with non-profit or private partners. But it is a requirement that the municipalities should ensure the right of disposal in the places for at least 30 years. With flexible support schemes and larger allocations, we are now increasing the rate of construction of nursing homes and nursing homes in Norway. It is important to ensure a continued fair social distribution of good care.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2982	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3378]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e2998	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3007	Thus, this proposal for a representative is intended not to allow political or religious activity in Norway to be financed by capital based on totalitarian Islamist regimes that do not follow the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In particular, the proposal for a representative refers to: that totalitarian regimes with ideological background tend to break with, among other things. The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights maintains strict internal control of its citizens. Proposalers point out that there is a difficult demarcation between support to local or regional organisations that support a totalitarian regime through peaceful means and organisations that support non-parliamentary means and that may lead, inter alia, to: sabotage, espionage and terrorism, and that this is a complicated exercise. The proposers also point out that in Norway, networks of actors with more or less firm organisational links to or expressing sympathy for radical Islam appear to be emerging. The proposers therefore believe that putting an effective end to financing this kind of political and religious activity that is contrary to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights is essential for maintaining Norway as an open, democratic, pluralistic and inclusive society. Proposalers also believe that transparency and information on the financing of Islamic religious communities in Norway are important, both in terms of gifts of money to such religious communities, from sources in countries such as Norway. Saudi Arabia and Iran, and under what conditions. An overall committee is concerned with the elucidation and prevention of the emergence of radical religious groups that pre-empt intolerant and anti-social attitudes in Norway. We have recorded that the Minister of Justice has presented an action plan to prevent radicalisation and violent extremism, stressing the need for political initiatives to prevent the emergence of such environments and groups in Norway. An overall committee is critical of states and actors who themselves do not respect freedom of religion financing religious communities in open and tolerant societies. We believe it is important that the Norwegian authorities strive for the best possible practice to follow up human rights and religious freedom. It is also an overall committee that wants to stress that in the fight against religious extremism, it is an objective to preserve the values and rights that we want to protect, such as freedom of expression and freedom of belief. I am also pleased that, apart from the members of the Progress Party, everyone wants to point out that integration policy considerations should not lead to the banning of religious organisations. A Joint Committee considers that there is a need for more transparency and information on the extent and conditions of funding for religious communities in Norway, both in terms of donations of funds to such religious communities from sources in countries such as Saudi Arabia and Iran. A Joint Committee therefore requests the Government to implement measures to ensure the transparency and registration of the extent of gifts and other funding of religious communities, including the financing of gifts from abroad. The Christian People's Party is particularly concerned that it is the right of every human being to believe and believe what one wants and to exercise his view of life. Equally important is that those who practice their religion must relate to the framework set by Norwegian society. This framework sets clear limits on what can be accepted. No religion or culture stands above Norwegian laws and the democratic rule of law that guarantees the right and freedom of the individual. Those who practice a religion must follow the rules that apply, and it is up to all religious communities in Norway to respect the beliefs of others, to protect our democracy and to comply with Norwegian laws and regulations. The Committee also points out that human rights involve the sovereignty of the people and democratic governance, that they provide for equal access to public services regardless of sex and religion, that human rights guarantee freedom of expression, freedom of expression and religion, and that they guarantee equality of law and equal protection of the law, that they protect against torture, inhumane and cruel punishment, and protect against discrimination based, inter alia. on religion, sex, ethnicity and sexual orientation. These are values that we do not compromise on, and there must be a clear expectation that all religious communities will both survive and succeed. Finally, I would recommend the position of the majority committee in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3035	The proposers in this case, the members of the Municipal Committee of the Progress Party, begin with a history that can best be characterised as selective. But I'm going to let it lie down and concentrate on the concrete proposals that are being promoted, which aim to prevent political or religious activity in Norway funded by the base of totalitarian, Islamist regimes. It's a goal that everyone can join. The question is what are the instruments that lead to the objective. The background to the proposal is a series of articles in the newspaper Nordlys. They were about the attempts to build a mosque in Tromsø, funded from Saudi Arabia and with emphasis on the wahhabist variant of Islam. According to researchers, it is an extremely conservative direction of Islam that is very little widespread in Norway. It is also not desirable that it be attached here. Nordlys himself asks the question, Will most Muslims have radical Islam? And we're sure the answer is no, most people want to work and live a safe life. Here we are at the heart of the matter. When people feel accepted and included in a community, have a job and secure income, when children and young people thrive in school, plan for further education and have a future they look forward to, it's the best protection against all kinds of extremism. Anyone who feels marginalized, silent outside the community that others take for granted, becomes easier victims of forces that abuse religion or political ideology to gain power over others. History is full of examples. The majority support the proposers for a while on the way. We are committed to preventing the emergence of radical religious groups with intolerant and anti-social attitudes. We ask the government to ensure transparency about gifts and other funding of religious communities. The propulsion part opens open doors in many ways. At the same time, the party has shown itself to be an opponent of many of the measures needed to ensure a comprehensive inclusion policy. The Progress Party will make strict demands, but cuts consistently in the apparatus responsible for integration, and they cut equally consistently in the instruments that will contribute to it – language training, work training, free core time in kindergartens, etc. etc. Stigmatizing and shutting out are the safest way to attach the foot of that kind of ideology Progress Party says they're against. The fact that Norway is one of the most successful countries in the Western world with integration is not the merits of the Progress Party. Back to opening doors: As the Minister for Foreign Affairs refers to in his letter to the Committee, as late as 30 November last, the Minister for Justice presented an action plan aimed at precisely what the Progress Party is after, namely at preventing radicalisation and violent extremism — in brackets, all forms of extremism. The action plan shall have the title Common Security – Joint Responsibility. Now the title is probably not just a call for the Progress Party, but they too may benefit from putting the call from Storberget on memory. The action plan emphasises the responsibilities of the justice sector, including those of the Police Security Service, but places such emphasis on the responsibility of municipalities for good living conditions, the responsibility of the school sector for learning and mastering, the importance of work and inclusion, equality and integration and participation and membership through cultural diversity. The plan contains a total of 30 measures. It also underlines the importance of prevention based on knowledge. An important experience is the knowledge that shows that most radicalisation is relatively young people and that promoting inclusion is an important part of the school’s task. In other words, it is necessary to have more thoughts in your head at once. It is right when, upon request, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will not issue a letter authorising the Norwegian authorities to grant financial support from Saudi Arabia to Muslim religious communities in Norway. These are attitudes that we need to be clear about. We have no difficulty in following the views of the Progress Party there. Taking away from extremism and oppression has always been a characteristic of social democracy. However, the fact that all people have equal value must also be reflected in our own policies in Norway. Unfortunately, the Progress Party is not always as clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3064	The issue we are dealing with here today may be about some of the most important aspects of good integration in Norway. It is about extremism in the form of Islamism, which is a barrier to success in integration if there is to be great disintegration among people with a migrant background. And then I can shoot in, that's not the way it's presented here by the previous speaker, that just you take an education and get to work, you solve that problem. On the contrary, it turns out that the radicalisation we have seen across Europe has happened among people who have just had an economical foundation and who have taken education. So that type of parallels becomes too simple as an explanation variable. I do not exclude any of the instruments referred to as alternatives to the proposals of the Progress Party. But what is important is that – as the previous representative said – you can have several thoughts in your head at the same time. And then we should look at the proposals put forward by the Progress Party here, because it can effectively meet the radicalisation we see across Europe. We know that the wahhabists from Saudi Arabia are very eager to finance mosques around the world. And you don't do that without expecting something left in relation to the ideology that spreads in these mosques. The fact that you then have a clear position and reject that kind of funding, I can't believe that should be a problem at all. It's just too simple to show that freedom of religion is so problematic about this, that you can't draw those boundaries. Obviously, you can draw those limits if you're willing to do it. There is no point in the Committee's comments in meeting rhetoric when one does not do the same in politics. It must be recognised that action is necessary to meet this radicalisation. One must realize that one cannot hide behind religious freedom in this struggle. Religious freedom is a little bit interesting. Me and the Progress Party perceive that the sluggish attitude of the other parties to address this issue through political action is precisely about Islamism, which, like Nazism and communism, is an ideology that is human enemy, but which, unlike communism and Nazism, which has its foundations in other reasons, whether racial or class understanding, is hiding behind religion Islam. Unfortunately, Western societies are unable to meet that challenge and the problem to the same extent as has been done with other ice creams that have destroyed and threatened freedom around the world. Then I find it interesting that when the Progress Party listens to the Labour Party's own Committee on Integration and promotes proposals that are incontrovertible to proposals that the Labour Party's Committee on Integration has chosen to address, then there is a total accumulation – minus the Progress Party – that is in favour, as it currently looks. I think that's very special. It again shows that rhetoric and politics should and must be linked if it is to have any kind of credibility. Three of the proposals in the vote, promoted by the Progress Party, originate from the Labour Party's Committee on Integration and meet in many ways part of the challenges addressed here by the Progress Party. What this is about is not simple rhetoric and – I was saying – simple political and cheap points, but it is about stopping the mind of young people with immigrant backgrounds growing up in Norway being darkened by this ideology that is totally anti-human. The Storting must soon take over. The Progress Party shall take up its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3083	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3086	I would very much like to join in the contribution made by the representative, Mr Becquerad, of the Christian People's Party, which – and that is what the representative, Mr Amundsen, said in his speech – is in many respects a meeting of the Progress Party here in demand. An overall committee – and it is worth stressing – asks that the government now implement «measures to ensure the transparency and registration of the extent of gifts and other funding of religious communities, including funding and gifts from abroad». Where the proposers may not receive the support they are asking for, proposals 4 and 5 in particular point out religious communities with ‘capital with a base in totalitarian, Islamic’ societies — that they should have their own rules. The question for Amundsen will then be: if you have a religious community which is at least as extreme, which is based in the United States, for example, and will establish itself in Norway, should it not be subject to the same legislation? So it becomes a little bit unexplained. In addition, there is an important basic value in our liberal society that one can dislike strongly what someone believes in and how they practice their religion, but banning their faith or their ability to engage in activity is very deep inside. That's why I think it's very important to discover the possible business funded by different groups, whether it's based in totalitarian Islamist regimes or in other countries – reveal it, get openness around it, see if it's possible to do something about that capital supply, and set requirements and rules on how to behave in this country. We have a regulation in Norway, a law, which, of course, gives the opportunity to stop activities that run contrary to Norwegian law, which directly encourages the use of violence, etc. I think it is very important for the Minister of Justice to follow up the unanimous recommendation of the Committee and to point out that we actually want to expose this flow of money, get transparency around it, and also clearly say and give a clear value signal that this is activity that one does not want in Norway. But going in and saying that one should be able to prohibit it, in particular with the unprecise wording that it has a ‘base in totalitarian, Islamist regimes’ seems to be difficult for the Right. The Progress Party should be satisfied with the fact that there is an overall committee that is well on the way to supporting the main objective here, namely to obtain a coverage of cash flows, to obtain transparency around it, and that we are clear that the type of activity that can come out of this is being stopped, by having a clear and clear law in Norway which prohibits such activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3099	I must admit that I smiled a little when I first became that the Progress Party had promoted this proposal, not because of the content, but because of the party's history. A party that received its first election support from the South African racist regime, a support to the party that led to the party being represented by two representatives of the Grand Duchy, which later led South Africa to think of it as its best investment in European elections, may well come up with statements of the type ‘on its own, you know others’ when they promote such a proposal. Rather, we others can join in the phrase ‘clock of harm’ and end up with the need for transparency around funding — first by political parties and then by the religious: churches, synagogues and other forms of church, which is what this matter is all about. We have therefore unanimously said by the committee – and I can quote that part of the vote: ‘The Committee therefore requests the Government to implement measures to ensure the transparency and registration of the extent of gifts and other funding of religious communities, including funding and gifts from abroad.’;» I think this is important, because I think we need and have the right to know what kind of funding lies behind the religious communities that exist here. Just as we have clear rules for funding political parties that exist in Norway, it is also important to have transparency about the funding available to religious communities. I would say that if the Progress Party was concerned with what was really a policy, and not just with rhetoric, as the representative Amundsen was about, the Progress Party should turn its first two proposals that they are promoting here today into transmission proposals, for they are 100 pst. covered within the wording that I read here from the committee voting. So Per-Willy Amundsen is constantly addressing the need to combat extremism. I fully agree with that. That is why the government has presented a big message proposing our measures to combat extremism, but unlike the Progress Party, which is only concerned with Islamist extremism, against which I am thundering – I am thundering against Islamist extremism – we say that we are against all forms of extremism. I don't think it's any matter whether it's Islamists who advocate positions that are anti-democratic, that are anti-democratic, that are anti-equality and at all, whether it's rabies, Christian churches that are in charge of killing abortion priests in the United States, and that looked until those degrees actually did it, or whether it's racist Zionists who are for ethnic cleansing in Palestine. So it's like all forms of extremism are in conflict with the basic values that I want us to base the Norwegian society on. Therefore, we want openness not only to support the kind of religious communities that the Progress Party is clearly opposed to, namely strict control of the religious Muslim religious communities, but we are to do something and to ensure transparency around all religious communities. So to the question of who are extremists. That's an interesting question. I want to take it up in this context because of a note that occurred on Per-Willy Amundsen's Facebook page for a short time back. Indeed, Per-Willy Amundsen called for a new crusade to become necessary. He said, "I hope my son can live up to the same freedom that I take for granted. This weekend I'm a single father, it's wonderful. But I hope he gets to experience the same freedom as me. Unfortunately, I'm not sure. I fear that a new crusade will be necessary." Then the question is, do we know the story here? The Crusades – do we remember what it was? The Crusades ran from the 1000s to the 1200s and the space of unfathomable bestiality, where any of the Christian people who took up the cross contributed to the persecution of Muslims, Jews, slaves and other types of people whom the West's Christians did not like. Taking up new crusades and suggesting that new crusades may become necessary is a political rhetoric that I am extremely opposed to. It is to address the same types of bestialities — and to see that they may be necessary — in the 2000s as in the 1000s, which were thought to be correct. It is a form of rhetoric that I would strongly warn against, which does not contribute to a good debate. Fortunately, Per-Willy Amundsen himself understood this when he removed the same Facebook post from his own site. It's about thinking about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3122	I really didn't intend to take the floor in this debate, but I actually found it quite necessary. Now we have another case in which the Progress Party is allowed to set the agenda for a scare image that almost seems to be on every street corner of ours today, and gets the opportunity to set the agenda for what's scary about our society. In yesterday's debate on the Data Storage Directive, I think Per Sandberg had a very good idea of what the major terrorist threats are, for example, facing Norwegian society. He described the Norwegian terrorist threats we see today, not from organized, large systems, but from lonely individuals who feel bored by the system. Those are the ones that represent the threat of terror, just as Per Sandberg said, just as we saw in Stockholm for a short time. It's about fighting extremism, fighting terrorism, not intolerance. That's something you do with tolerance. Extremism, intolerance and extreme attitudes, including in religious societies, are best combated by the fact that they cannot recruit to their attitudes by pointing out that someone is being bored in Norwegian society. Preventing someone from being bored in Norwegian society, both from his belief, from his cultural background and from all the indicators that are important for an individual to feel like a valued individual in a society, is the way to combat that kind of extremism, terrorism and extreme actions against a society. What the Progress Party is now proposing has been implemented in a number of countries. It was implemented by Putin when he was afraid that Western democracies would build up a party system that resembled Western democracy. Therefore, the Left is not allowed to help its sister party build up in Russia, as we might want to do. We see the same thing in a number of other totalitarian and semi-totalitarian regimes, stopping the possibility of building resistance in a society by preventing transfers. So this is a known tool. I think the committee has a very good point that the fight to combat what you're talking about here is openness. It's with openness you control this. It's the open debate in a society that actually helps fight what you're talking about. But is it a very big and exciting problem? Is it so that we look at every street corner in Norway today? Is it so that our civilization and our democracy waver because of this pressure from other countries? No, this is quite far away from our everyday lives today, and it is time for some to say from, so that the Progress Party does not have the opportunity to set the standard for the debate, as if we were in a democracy that was threatened the next day. I have to say that as a populist, as a liberal, as a resident on the eastern edge of Oslo, where you have the greatest mosquito density that it might be possible to recover in this country, I don't feel like a big and exciting threat when I go home from work today. I think maybe I'm one of the politicians in the world who can say that I can actually go back as liberals to my neighborhood, and pass many environments that Per-Willy Amundsen probably doesn't talk to, and don't find it a threat to my democratic rights. I'm perhaps one of those politicians in the world who can really twiddle through the city a late evening and feel safe. I do not believe that the threat images that the Progress Party is building around our democracy are present. But if we agree with the arguments of the Party of Advancement, if we agree with the factors on which they are based, we will create groundwork for the very attitudes that are based on people's being intolerant, that people do not meet religious freedom, that people feel that they are stigmatized from their backgrounds. And then maybe my freedom is also threatened.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3139	First of all, I am pleased to note that the government and the committee agree on the fundamentals of this discussion, that it is the right of every human being to believe and believe what one wants and to exercise his view of life, but also that those who practice their religion in Norway must relate to the framework set by Norwegian society. It may seem seaworthy, but it is nevertheless important to stress that no religious practice is above Norwegian laws and the democratic rule of law that guarantees the right and freedom of the individual. At the same time, I am also critical of the fact that states or actors that do not respect religious freedom will be able to finance religious communities in open and tolerant societies. I would like to briefly mention that last summer the Ministry of Foreign Affairs received a request from a representative of a religious community in Norway to give an authorisation for the Norwegian authorities to accept financial support from Saudi Arabia to Norwegian religious communities. The background was that the potential contributor had set such a confirmation as a condition for providing its support. The request was answered that it is not for the government and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to authorise financial transfers to religious communities. In addition, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs stated that a normal expectation should be that when offering foreign funding for the establishment of religious communities in Norway, similar rules should apply to the free establishment of religious communities in the country in question. It would therefore be a paradox and unnatural, in the view of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to grant approval for funding from sources in a country where freedom of religion is not being opened. On 1 December 2010, the government, as several have already been involved, presented an action plan, called Joint Security – joint responsibility, to prevent radicalisation and violent extremism, which can lead to terror in the ultimate sense. I would say that the whole plan is really built on a lot of the thinking that we heard the representative Skei Grande present in his post. The action plan aims to ensure an overall approach to prevention, as well as to increase knowledge in this area, in order to ensure that prevention becomes more effective and targeted, and that prevention does not interfere or contribute to the opposite. With better cooperation between different actors at an early stage, we also facilitate broader and more effective prevention and thus increased security. Norway is also obliged to contribute to the fight against international terrorism, and both the Police Security Service and Ecocrime are involved in this work. Our international obligations have been followed up in national law, for example. Section 147b of the penal code, which directly targets the financing of acts of terrorism and the general responsibility for participation in Norwegian law, and which is a clear prohibition against criminal activities, not activities protected by human rights. The question raised by this Document 8 is really whether the prohibition of law is the way to go in order to prevent and combat unacceptable, intolerant and anti-social attitudes. For many reasons it is not. The Government agrees with the majority of the Committee that there will be measures other than the prohibition of law that could effectively contribute to this work. I would like to underline the point made by the representative, Mrs Grande, that many well-founded and isolatedly wanted laws in some respects will also have counter-effects, contribute to more conflict, contribute to more confrontation. At the same time, it is important to stress that measures to combat radicalisation must remain within the framework of our human rights obligations. It was just supposed to be missing! It's precisely to prevent anyone from tearing down the values on which we build our society, which is why we want to prevent radicalisation. It would be nice if we were to tear down the same values in such a fight. Freedom of religion and assembly, as well as freedom of expression, restricts the actions that can be taken. We're gonna be happy for that. It is also important that efforts to prevent religious extremism ensure respect for the values and rights we want to protect. Freedom of belief and life is a fundamental human right, which means that the individual has the right to believe what he or she wants, to express and live in harmony with his or her faith, to change faith and to have a view of life that does not involve having a religious faith. This freedom also includes a collective right to come together on religious and life-seeking purposes, to participate in religious rituals together with others, and to organize a common religious life, enshrined in the Human Rights Convention, in the Norwegian law, in the religious communities, in the ymist others, and also in the Norwegian constitution. The government believes there is a need for increased transparency about large foreign gifts to religious and life-seeking communities and religious educational institutions in Norway. The Ministry of Culture will therefore investigate the establishment of a public register of gifts for such recipients.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3160	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3164	The Council of State refers in its article to the situation around Alnor. In fact, authorisation was applied for from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to receive funds to finance the mosque in Tromsø from Saudi business interests. At the time, they said you wouldn't do that, as the Council of State clearly underlined. But it is not the case that all countries ask first. We know that Iran does not ask first. Saudi Arabia is actually doing it, because they're obliged to do it. But Iran does not ask first. What are the instruments to tackle these kinds of problems – when you do not first ask for permission to finance mosques in Norway? Is that all right? Or do you realize that you are actually standing without the means to stop it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3171	I believe that we are not at all left without the means to prevent, for example. radicalisation based on religious faith. But the tool that the Progress Party here is drawing – attacking this through a kind of law-enforcement ban that you think you should be able to enforce – I think it will be a dead end. In particular, on the basis of Trine Skei Grande's representative's intervention, it helps to increase conflict and confrontation with that kind of regulation, and it will also be very difficult to carry out effective control of this. It might also help to provide us with a resting place for all the other measures that should be taken and which are very well described in the government's action plan to prevent unwanted activities, and what we define as extremism in many kinds of camps. I think it's much more important that we have stronger pressure on what's about preventing people from falling outside, among other things. based on legal rules, made by politicians who want it good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3176	The State Council of Storberget was at the end of his speech on – it was possible he got it a little busy – that the Ministry of Culture would be tasked with investigating the establishment of a register to ensure that a unanimous committee asked for it, namely transparency of funding for religious communities in Norway, including in the case of gifts of money from other countries. It is possible that the Council of State can say something more about how this work is intended to be tackled. When do you realize that such a register can be clear? What should be recorded in this register?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3183	I'm afraid I can't contribute so much detail about it. It's a mission that the committee has now given to the government, and I think it's important that the government also takes. I believe that the desire to be transparent about this is far more important than being creative both in terms of further law-enforcement and criminal sanctions. The law prohibits, increases transparency and knowledge about this actually have a value in itself. I also believe that such work may have a preventative effect in terms of unfortunate bonds related to such contributions – i.e. conditions and conditions attached to it. Behind such gifts of money there may be great expectations of influence and return, and that may be undesirable for all of us. At the same time, I believe that such work can also help – we get back to Stortinget with a closer briefing when it is clear – that we will also be given an increased focus on other measures that can help mitigate unlucky funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3188	I feel that the Council of State in its contribution is taking a distance from, and does not want to support, the proposals that the Advance Party has promoted in the vote. I think that is a little special, all the time when several of the proposals are actually concrete proposals that have been put forward by the Labour Party's Committee on Integration. I think it's very special that you cut all the suggestions over one comb. Is it because it is the Advance Party that promotes them that they are taken away from them? Or do you not see that there are actually some good proposals, which the Labour Party will hopefully also eventually support at some point, preferably after they have had a national meeting? Or are these proposals totally out of date for the Council of State to come back to at a later date?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3193	We have now examined these proposals. The size fractions have now dealt with it and taken a stand on it. The Labour Party, as has been said, has had an integration committee that has worked out a very good plan at my discretion. I got hold of it when I heard the representative instead, because I believe it is necessarily not right that the progress party proposals are reproduced there. In particular, the proposal for transparency in funding is included in the report of this sample and is relevant to this debate. And that's what I think you're about to tackle by asking the Ministry of Culture to answer that question. This is the case with all the proposals that come – I think most of those from the Committee on Integration are very good – that they should be dealt with at the national meeting. But I cannot see that the representative can say that all the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter are mirrored by proposals from the Labour Party's Committee on Integration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3200	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3205	I might be able to help the State Council of Storberget a little bit and quote two of the proposals to be dealt with at the National Labour Party meeting. Point 1: Ensure greater transparency in the financing of religious communities, including gifts from abroad. Establish a public register of all transfers from abroad to religious religious communities in Norway. Point 2: Strengthen the oversight of religious communities. One must be able to distinguish clearly between support for activity in the form of a political party and a religious community.’.» There's nothing to discuss with me afterwards, you can just look up in these 99 proposals to Jonas Gahr Støre, it says there. I really don't know if I'm going to laugh or cry about this debate. I wonder, in fact, where the representatives in this Chamber have been, whether they are constantly inside this building, or whether they are moving out a little bit and reading some books on development in Europe, whether they see the threat of terror, whether they see the threat of the emergence of Islamism in Europe as well. We're not going to be so tolerant that we accept intolerance. There has to be one place where we put our foot down, and that's when we see the values on which this society is built, which is an inheritance from the American revolution in 1776 or the French revolution in 1789, namely, brotherhood, equality between the sexes, freedom of expression, democracy, secular legal rules, these are the values on which it is built, broken over and over again – not by some people within Islam, that's not what we're talking about, we're talking about a system based on Sharia. Ask a dedicated Muslim if he will take a distance from Sharia. You can't find one dedicated Muslim who's taking a distance from Sharia. Islam is a total system, a system that builds the whole human being, the whole society, and it's built on sharia. It's based on the man putting over the woman. Equality is a foreign word no matter how tolerant we are, and if we are tolerant in this field, Islam will grow in Norway. If one accepts that Islam is growing in Norway and one accepts that these values are being suppressed, one can well sit here and find rhetorical arguments as to why one should not limit the one and the other. But the truth is that Islam is growing, and the values we stand for are also disappearing in our own country – all over Europe these are disappearing. I can encourage the hall here to read the book of Half Thin – if you dare. There are comments in several newspapers that have criticized the book of Halvor Tjönn before it came out. They were terrified that Halvor Tjønn's arguments would be rooted. And I ask the representatives in this room: is it really that when you walk in the street, you don't hear the cry that our values of freedom are under pressure? These liberal values that the representative Skei Grande represents and stands here talking about, are they really the ones she feels when she goes past the mosque in Greenland, or where she lives – on Grünerløkka? I doubt it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3221	Let me follow the invitation to read the book to Half-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self-Self. But I wanted to take the word to say something about that I believe that the approach angle of Christian Tybring-Gjedde is completely wrong. And I ask the question, where have you been? Excuse me, President, where in the world has Christian Tybring-Gjedde been? When was Christian Tybring-Gjedde the last time out fighting for the merit of brotherhood? When was Christian Tybring-Gjedde the last time out and made sure that the difference in class in this city, which creates differences between people, gets smaller? When was Christian Tybring-Gjedde the last time out fighting the discrimination that people with a minority background in this city are exposed to at night, in relation to job applications and elsewhere? When was the last time he was fighting this discrimination? When was the last time he was out fighting against the hatred that leads to crusades against Islam? And when was the last time he was talking to a Muslim who wouldn't agree with that premise that all sharialovers should be introduced into Norway? If Christian Tybring-Gjedde is unable to find any Muslims, then he associates completely different people than those I associate with. Because I know a lot of Muslims in Norway. There's none of them that want Sharia in Norway. But it's possible that Christian Tybring-Ged only socializes some special types of people that at least I don't associate. Therefore, I just want to say that the day we can stand together, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and I, at the barricades of brotherhood, for a common future of people who are Christians, Muslims, atheists, Jews and others, the day we can stand on the barricades for a common future in which we fight down discrimination and where all people who grow up in Norway have equal opportunities, and where we don't encourage hatred, that day we can find something clever together. But it's quite obvious that if we look at what fight it's important to take in Norway, it's the fight for democracy and it's the fight for equality. The party of progress is a party where, over and over again, we see the double morality. I've never heard the Advancement Party stand on the barricades for equality, except in terms of equality between Muslim women and Muslim men. So I've never seen the Advance Party stand on the barricades for gays. On the contrary, we note that the fight of the Progress Party has been against the strengthened rights of homofiles in Norwegian society. The only gays that the Advance Party is fighting for are Muslim gays. Then I say: that double morale sees all people in Norwegian society, and it says that the Progress Party stands for a view of value that we cannot end up with. We from the Red-Green parties fight for equality, we fight for democracy and we fight for social cohesion. It's a treasure that the whole rest of this hall thinks it's worth fighting for. On several of these points, we miss the Progress Party on the track.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3234	President, and dear representative Holmås: Yes then, I have been around the world. Yes, I've lived a quarter of my life in another country. Yeah, I know a lot of Muslims. Yeah, I've been with a Pakistani woman. Yes, I know Islam. Okay? What we're talking about is a system. We have different ideological approaches to how we solve social developments, the Progress Party does not believe in quotas, but we believe that people are initially free, and that they should have the opportunity to compete for the different conditions of society. And then we're going to help those who fall outside. We're not going to help groups because they belong to a religion or because they have a different skin color. That's not why we're supposed to help people. We're basically born free, and we're going to have the same opportunity to compete. It's the starting point of the Progress Party, and then society is going to facilitate this by giving people the opportunity to compete. Return to UN human rights: Is the representative of Holmås aware that there is one Muslim country around the world, namely Turkey, which has ratified the UN Declaration of Human Rights? Yes, they have joined it in New York, but they have not ratified it in their own parliaments, because that is not possible. But there is another declaration of human rights, the one adopted in Cairo by Muslim states. It has all Muslim states, except a few, joined. It is roughly identical to the UN Declaration of Human Rights, but it always has a sentence at the end, ‘if it does not break with Sharia’, on absolutely all points. That's why all human rights fall on their own unfairness, because it's not possible to get Sharia and the UN's human rights to harmonize. It's a contradiction. It's not hard to figure this out. It's not hard to get involved in this. It's possible if you want, if you don't live in your own little, sloppy world in here on the Stortinget and think everything's going well in the end. We are in the process of digging our own cultural, ethnic and religious graves in Europe, and then, in fact, some should wake up before it is too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3246	I must say that it is agreeing to hear the representative Holmås from SV in his two posts talking about this serious topic, and what he manages to talk about is the dual morality of the Progress Party, as he calls it in the last post. In the first post, he talks about South Africa and what the Progress Party with the undersigned has written on Facebook – a fairly special focus one chooses when we discuss such an important and serious theme like this. Just to turn it to the ground immediately, because I don't see Facebook comments have so much to do in the main hall. But if you want to, you have to take a case on it and promote the Storting, if the signed Facebook comments have something to do here. But I'm actually stressing what I'm talking about when I'm talking about crusades. It's possible it was a poor choice of words. But I say it's about standing up for our values, standing up for our culture, our civilization. It is about doing something about the massive and massive migration that Europe is facing. It's not about urging violence, and I think with all due respect it's a shame to try to present it in the way that the representative Holmås does in his post. So I think it's special that several representatives choose to construct hypothetical issues. I have no experience that Buddhist suicide bombers are a common problem. However, the word ‘Islamism’ cannot even be used in the notes. But that's Islamism we're talking about. We are not talking about Buddhist terrorism. We're talking about Islamists who use violence to promote their positions. I also think it is special that the representative of the Christian People's Party in his post speaks to himself. You don't want to ban, as you say, organisations for integration policy purposes. In fact, this Christian People's Party at the representative of the Syversen, together with those who are signed in the case of Hizb ut-Tahrir, is a reasonably dangerous organisation that is growing up in Norway. The Ministry of Justice was not willing to do anything about it. So here you talk to several tongues at the same time from the Christian People's Party, and I would like to see this problem dealt with with with with a greater seriousness than the individual representatives from the SV and the Left do in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3261	Maybe we should do this more often? Perhaps we should take these discussions more often in Parliament? I now think that the last two posts are very revealing to what basic attitudes lie there, what we're really talking about, and I think it's a warning to the whole committee that it's important not to go into the assumptions laid down in many of the proposals we see from the Progress Party. If anyone had thought that the Advance Party has made itself nice and shiny to become a government party, then I guess the last few minutes have been a dubious downhill. You talk about the individual's rights for a second, on which groups are the problem. You talk about human rights for a second, about which freedom of faith is the problem. You talk about human rights for one second and individuals for one second, on which the threat lies in the group. This is the real Grund-FrP, and they've shown it today. They have shown that the individual’s rights are reserved for white Christians. Individual rights — perhaps Buddhists, but we should not treat Muslims as individuals. Muslims are a group. They are a threat to our society, and they all support Sharia. I must admit that I know believing Islamists who are quite dogmatic, but I have not heard anyone supporting Sharia. I associate many Muslims in my circle. The attitudes that are represented here are quite far from what I experience. We have a population of 50 pst. Muslims, and sometimes I feel that it's very important to get the kindergarten, because you're going to go to kindergarten every other time, because you're going to live in a marriage with equality. It's the real picture that we live in, and it's clear that there are some threats in all areas, but maybe the challenge in this room is not to read scary images of what can happen to society today. As an old history teacher, I might think it's time to read a little bit more history. Has terrorism only taken place in Islam? Has the threat to human rights only occurred in Islam? I think it might be time to read the history of the Crusades, about Saladin who offered Rikard Lionheart that Jerusalem should belong to all religions, and who offered him to enter freely and to worship his Christian faith in Jerusalem, while he announced that all Muslims would be slaughtered here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3274	Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3277	I wonder if the representative Trine Skei Grande has at all come up with what is on the agenda here today and what we are actually discussing. We are discussing the financing of political and religious activity from Islamic countries in Norwegian territory. That is what we are discussing today. Drawing parallels and trying to present it as if the Progress Party is not on the side of the individual – that’s what this fight is about, it’s about freedom for individuals, it’s about democracy, it’s about equality, it’s about equality, it’s about secular legal rules. These are fundamental values when you're going to have a well-functioning society where the individual is at the center. Islamism is the opposite of it. It is about a collective thinking in line with, as I said, what communism and Nazism did in their time. The only difference is that it is justified in religion. These kinds of ideologies have to be combated, and then it's no use using flakes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3282	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3379]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3298	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3307	In this case, which is a little bit in the same street as the previous case, the proposers take on the basis of a notice from the NRK, Dagsrevyen, November 6, 2010, stating that the Islamic Republic of Iran is financing mosques and sending imams to Norway. One of the sources of the NRK says that there is a hatred against the West here, and where the goal is to prepare Norwegian Muslims ideologically to carry out acts of terrorism if one day it is ordered to do so. Furthermore, the proposers indicate that Iran’s ambassador to Norway confirmed to the NRK in an entry in the Sunday Revy on 14 November 2010 that the organisation owning the mentioned mosque in Oslo follows ideological leadership provided by Iran’s chief leader, Ayatolla Ali Khamenei. In the last few days, we have also become aware that Iran is spying on its own countrymen here in Norway, who are engaged in activity in the country that the Iranian regime should not like. The Christian People's Party and the rest of the Committee are committed to protecting religious freedom in this country. It is established, and this right includes the freedom to believe, to change religion or faith, and the freedom either alone or with others to exercise their religion publicly or privately. The UN Committee on Human Rights has established that freedom of religion and life is a strong and far-reaching right. The point of religious freedom is above all to safeguard the rights of minorities. The right to freedom of religion must be defended even if one strongly disagrees with the doctrine of a religion, or believes that religion stands for values that one does not share. Also unpopular positions are protected by religious freedom. I'm glad that there's an overall committee that says that we want to prevent the emergence of radical religious groups that advocate intolerant and anti-social attitudes in Norway. As in the previous case, I would also like to point out here that the Minister of Justice has presented an action plan to prevent radicalisation and violent extremism that underlines the need for political initiatives to prevent the emergence of such environments and groups in Norway, and that is good. I think it's a work that can work well if it takes priority. The minority of the Committee, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, believes that it is important that the police security service has sufficient resources to monitor persons who have reason to believe will spread hatred and encourage terror in Norway. The same batches also consider that there may be a need to strengthen the foreign stations, so that they have better capacity to assess the visa refusal of persons who have reason to believe will spread hatred and encourage terror in Norway. We believe that this can be an instrument and a tool to precisely avoid talking about, among other things. the Iranian regime is given positions in the Norwegian community, where they are also greatly influenced by Iranians who have just applied for refuge in Norway from this regime and who are the reason they have been allowed to stay here. So it's interesting to get the judge's assessment of, at least explain why you don't want to support this. Finally, I would just like to recommend the Committee's position on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3330	This matter must be seen in the context of the previous case. The proposers are the same. While the previous case concerned financial support from abroad to religious communities that advocate extreme attitudes, this sent representative for the same type of religious community applies. In the previous case, the proposers proposed to monitor transfers of funds to all religious communities, in this case only imams linked to Islamic regimes. I do not know whether it was in the previous case or in this case it was missing for the proposers, but for the majority it is at least a point to combat all forms of extremism. That is also why, in the committee position, we did not want to highlight religious leaders from one country in particular, rather than others. The proposers point out that Islam is one of the world’s largest religions and that it is practiced in various ways, depending on culture and geography, although some ‘absolutes’ are rarely debated. The same can be said of other religions. It is a great leap from the preaching and practice of the Norwegian Church to the more orthodox variations of Christian faith, not least in the view of what role religious leaders can and should play in people's lives, and in the distinction between religion and politics. Freedom of religion is a human right. There are also positions and religious practices that the majority do not like. As the Minister of Justice says in his reply to the Committee, the legislation governing labour immigration governs the access of religious leaders to Norway, not the attitudes they have or the relationship of the home country authorities to human rights. Then we would ourselves break the values we want to protect. In the case of religious leaders from third countries, there is an increased demand for vocational training. There is not enough vocational training equivalent to higher education, as is the case for most others, but requirements for education equivalent to master's degree from university or higher education. There is already a limitation here. Of course, the same rules apply to the refusal or refusal of residence as to all others, if they do not respect Norwegian law. This could be done, for example, by: be called upon to commit offences or if he acts in a manner that is incompatible with, inter alia, the law. internal security in the Schengen countries, including Norway, public order or international relations. Terrorism may be affected by such provisions. The new penal code provides for hate-based offences. It is totally unacceptable for religious leaders to abuse their position to create fear and limitations in the development of life for people who have received protection in Norway. But here too, the Progress Party opens open doors. This legislation already exists. Soon, Stortinget will deal with Meld. St. 7 for 2010–2011, The Fight Against Organised Crime, where terrorist opportunities are also one of the themes. It is noted that in Norway there are a few people who support extreme Islamist organisations abroad, that a few charismatic leaders legitimise and glorify violence as a political tool, and that younger identity seekers who have difficulty finding religious guidance elsewhere may be vulnerable to such leaders. Again, there is reason to recall the action plan to prevent radicalisation and violent extremism. The basic idea of the plan is to counter this by means of open, democratic and generally accepted instruments. The party of progress is moving towards a limit when they propose to cut all imams from land whose regimes they don't like, over one comb. A good and constructive dialogue with cultural, voluntary and religious organisations, different minority environments and the local environment is key elements of the action plan. In Drammen, the municipality took responsibility for a bad case of violence against children at the Koran School a few years ago. Leaders from 60 congregations were invited to a series of courses on Norwegian laws. The offer went to all religious leaders, not just to imams and Muslim leaders. Prevention department at the Drammen police station was central to its implementation. The initiative for the course was taken by the imam at one of the Muslim congregations in the city. He himself had attended a course for religious leaders in charge of the theological faculty at the University of Oslo. The same imam also cooperates closely with the city priest, who started after the first caricature fight in 2006. Now they meet regularly and keep open the house of youth in the church, where they are engaged in conveying the common values of both religions about love, peace and friendship. Religion can be used as a food for conflict, but then relatively untrue, as they both say. When the mosque is about to be finished, they'll have a place to gather. This week, the National Assembly of the Workers' Party will consider a proposal for a compulsory course in Norwegian and social subjects for foreign religious leaders to work in Norway. I have more faith in this as a preventive measure than the Progress Party's proposals in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3351	I'm probably going to be clubbed if I say so, so I'm not going to say that naivety obviously knows no limits – so that's not what I'm saying. When you're willing to believe that language training is what it takes to stop the emergence of radical Islamism, you're probably in a slightly different reality than the rest of us, because that's far from enough. This does not mean that it is not a good measure in itself. Isolatedly, it is. Many of the measures referred to by the Workers’ Party’s representative are good, but that is not enough in itself. So we have a situation where there are imams coming from the Iranian state to Norway and spreading their hate propaganda towards the West. It's documented. They stand for an Islamist ideology that is totally incompatible with our society and our values. Then you talk about it being illegal to encourage crime and that kind of thing. But what about doing something about the problem before it happens, like preventing these imams from getting into the Kingdom? It is not that you have no opportunity to regulate this in the Foreign Affairs Act. Of course you do. The reference to religious freedom once again becomes – with all due respect – a total derailment. Notice the proposal, notice what we're talking about here. We're talking about political and religious activity. Islamism is primarily a political ideology based on a religious world view. Not seeing the problem that people with immigrant backgrounds, that second generation is growing up today and being exposed to this hatred, become darkened in their minds by this hatred that these imams from Iran spread, and not being willing to do anything about it, I think is amazing. To refer to freedom of religion, well, you can do that, but I draw attention to Article 9, freedom of thought, conscience and religion, of the European Convention on Human Rights. So it has a point number. 2, which reads as follows: ‘The freedom to express their religion or belief shall be subject only to such restrictions as are prescribed by law and necessary in a democratic society for reasons of public security, for the protection of public order, health or morality, or for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others.’;» What we're talking about here is precisely the last, because the Islamist ideology spread by these imams is a threat to the rights of so far all of us, but especially to those people with immigrant backgrounds who live in oppression in Norwegian society in 2011. It's not least about equality. Let me draw attention to a very topical matter in the media today. In the last few days, five assaults have been committed. Lawyer Celine Bache-Wiig states the following: ‘About 100 per cent of non-ethnic Northmen are responsible for assault violence. They have a different cultural background and a different view of women.’» And there's also a context here. When you spread this ideology, which is, among other things, Extremely anti-female, it also hinders equality. It's a cultural ballast you take with you to Norway. And then in a free society that second-generation immigrants experience that there are even imams coming from the dictatorship with which you left, spreading the same hatred and the same oppression. I can't believe that we're going to be familiar with it, and that we, as a magnification, are not going to be able to put in place rules to address this issue. Of course we can. To refer to freedom of religion becomes too simple. I ask the Stortinget and the Committee in particular to take a closer look at this problem, because this is not about language training. Finally, I would like to refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3379	The representative Per Willy Amundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3382	In the previous case, which has clear parallels to this, and which we might have dealt with together – seen in the clear light of the postwar clock – we were occupied with religious communities and perhaps more physical things like buildings, mosques and other things. In this case, we talk about those who preach or procrastinate in these religious communities. This means that there are two different sets of instruments that need to be inserted. I'm a little surprised by the government fraction. We have a long joint comment, as it has been explained, but we distinguish paths with regard to the tools to be used to possibly stop the type of activity that encourages terror, hatred, etc. That is why I would challenge the Minister of Justice in his post to say something about what sets of instruments he sees fit to stop the type of business, which directly undermines the Norwegian law. I would particularly like to point out the PST, which has an important role here in following unwanted activity, stopping unwanted activity and revealing it – regardless of religious communities and religion, regardless of background. Earlier today, some of us were at a panel debate at the House of Literature in the direction of NOAS with Ethiopian refugees. There were many of them there. The first finding was that there were at least two representatives from the Ethiopian intelligence service in the hall. We then asked the question: is this reported to PST? Yes, but they have not chosen this as a priority. It is clear that if the type of activity takes place in Norway aimed at asylum seekers, people who have been given shelter in Norway, who have escaped torture and imprisonment and travel to Norway for a safe haven of refuge, but then it can be found that the intelligence services of foreign powers operate in Norway hidden in order to report back what is going on in the various environments, whether in the Muslim or ethnic environments as the Ethiopian, it is frightening. We can't verify that, but they said at least clearly that yes, the PST had been told about this, but this was something they didn't prioritize. I think that's serious. Therefore, it is important that the PST has the necessary resources, as pointed out by the minority, the opposition, in the Committee. It is important that Norwegian foreign stations are included. Whether it's Islamist radical imams who want access to Norway to run a business that we don't want here, it's the thing that can be revealed, that can be stopped, both in terms of visa denial and in terms of PST keeping an eye on what's going on. Then it is important to stress that it is difficult to draw a fundamental line, as the Progress Party is trying here, and to say that representatives of totalitarian Islamic regimes should not at all have access to Norway to operate that type of activity, especially because there may also be people with slightly different views representing these countries, and who have a different message. However, the important thing is that those who are actually in Norway as refugees and who are legally resident in Norway have a guarantee that they are now living in a safe country that they do not risk the same type of treatment they have received in their home country. That is why I ask the Minister of Justice to say something about what opportunities he has, and why the government parties cannot help support the comments on using the PST as it should be, namely a monitoring service to detect the undesirable activity of foreign powers on Norwegian soil. I think that's important in this case. Then I must say to the representative Per-Willy Amundsen that to draw a direct link between assault violence in Oslo and imams that are preaching is going to go a little too far. I've never heard that Islam is a religion that encourages the rape of women. It would be to draw it too far, and therefore the debate will be brought down to a level where it should not be. This is a serious problem. We're interested in doing something about it. Then we have to separate the clint from the wheat here and talk about what is important: that asylum seekers in Norway, people who are staying, have to feel safe in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3395	Now I actually thought that the representative of Greece made a very wise contribution. I've been following this particular problem, and I have to say that there's one thing that really amazes me. I've worked a lot on visa policy. I have seen families who have tried to get grandmother to visit baby baptisms, I have seen Norwegian families who have had au pair for many years and would like to invite to Christmas celebrations, I have seen Norwegians traveling around the world, experiencing great hospitality among friends in other countries, and would like to invite them to Christmas celebrations in Norway – and everyone gets no. Getting visas in Norway is too much difficult. Some of the rejections I think are fundamentally unfair. I think it's actually very strange that those who don't experience getting Grandma here to babysitting, friends here to Christmas celebration or an au pair here to Easter holidays, at the same time need to see that imams get very easy entry permits when they come from regimes where we know they're actually recruiting for criminal acts, which are terrorism. That's why I think we have to use our visa regulations, we have to use the PST, we have to do the job properly, because I think they're actually not entitled to a visa. I'll give visas to Grandma, au pair and to friends instead, instead of giving visas to these groups. I believe that the PST has a job to do with Norwegian embassies in checking out who is applying for a visa, and checking out whether these are people recruiting people for criminal acts. I think you should clean that up. Then I have to say that I think it is very strange that all foreign imams should be banned on any occasion and at the same time be opposed to training imams in Norway. I think that's a strange position. In sum, that means that you don't respect freedom of religion, because that means that you don't get anyone to preach a particular religion. I want to train imams in Norway. I would like Norwegian publishers, with Norwegian cultural backgrounds, to preach to Islamic believers in Norway. The Left has put forward a proposal here in Stortinget, we have wanted to implement it, and I think that if the proposal was voted down here, the University of Oslo will implement it. It would be an uproar – it would be the dampening against what the Progress Party here will stop. But then I think you should distinguish between those that you have the basis to believe should encourage criminal acts, and those that just communicate faith. Those who communicate faith shall have the right to come here, those whom the PST and Norwegian embassies can ask questions about whether they are recruiting for criminal acts, should not get visas here. This cleanup must be done by the government. It's not just a simple cleanup, I get that, but it's a distinction that has to be clear. In summary, use the visa regulation for what it is to be used for – not to stop good family parties, but to prevent people who are going to recruit for criminal acts from actually coming here. Make sure we get a good Norwegian education for religious ministers for all religious communities, so that they don't pick up publishers from other countries. But make sure that the preachers who are merely intended to proclaim their faith have the right to do so, at least as long as we do not educate publishers on our own land.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3413	I agree with all the previous speakers here, except Per-Willy Amundsen, and I think there have been several good comments on this matter. I believe that what is important is to make sure to separate the snare and bart in this matter, and to say clearly that we want to facilitate freedom of belief by allowing people who want to get religious leaders from other countries to come to Norway. At the same time, we have to be clear about the fact that if they announce things that would be contrary to the criminal law, they are the things that are affected by the criminal law and will ensure that if we have a functioning monitoring system, a functioning PST, which is to protect Norwegian citizens and others who live in Norway, they will not be given a visa on a later occasion. If the criminal acts are committed, it is clear that they must also be accused of doing so. I am concerned about stressing that we in the government parties also believe that it is important that we have a PST that has enough resources to ensure that what is about protecting Norwegian citizens is important. And I see that there is some of the things in the action plan against extremism, which the government and Knut Storberget have previously presented, and which he will certainly come up with in his article. I also think it is very hairy that the Progress Party manages to link rape and assault in Oslo with a matter of religious leaders' ability to come to Norway. In the previous case, Per-Willy Amundsen was very busy pointing out what matter we discussed. He had quite obviously forgotten that when we came to the matter afterwards. To Trine Skei Grande, I'd like to say two things. One is that I fully agree that it is necessary to facilitate imam education in Norway. I notice that the Islamic Council is opposed, as it is now. I think this is something we have to make sure to have a continuous dialogue about. I also think it is positive that the theological faculty in Oslo wants to facilitate this. And why shouldn't we make it so that we can get our first female imam in Norway? It had to be super—in the same way that we arranged to get our first female pastor in Norway. But just as within the Church, this is a long canvas to fade. Making sure to facilitate as much dialogue as possible, as much inclusive attitudes as possible so that we become a country where all people feel included, is fundamental. Then we have to keep our eyes open to extremism, and make sure to prevent and combat it as far as we can. So to the second, and last, I'm going to record: visa -- since Trine Skei Grande brought it up. Skiei Grande is concerned about grandmothers who are not allowed to visit their grandchildren – and also others who are not allowed to visit – and we have said this clearly from Stortinget’s side that we are. We want to facilitate visas to Norway to visit close to family and friends. In particular, it is necessary to do so in the case of close family members. That is why we review the system we have, with the possibility of providing a guarantee, and see if we can extend it to close family members, so that more people can visit. To get a visit by her grandmother, I think that is something the vast majority of us will perceive as a clear right. Now we have to get to it!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3426	There are two things that happen in this kind of debate. The first is that you go around with generalizations, and you're going to blow it all up and end up with that imams that are not followers of equality, don't have access to the kingdom. It's also fascinating to hear this from the Progress Party. There will be many who could risk being deprived of their permits if they were to assess it from our point of view of equality. What is happening in these debates is – as we were in the previous debate – stigmatizing and generalising and creating more conflict and more trouble. You get more of what you actually want less of. That's the one. The second is that the measures to be taken are almost impossible to identify and implement when such a starting point and approach to the issues is available. That's why I think much of what the majority points to in the comments is actually the dangerous path. I would like to refer to the Government's action plan, which came before Christmas and which has the title Common Security – joint responsibility. It contains, in my view, very important measures to prevent people from engaging in that kind of illegal activity, whether it is a call for and preparation for, planning or carrying out activities that are affected by Norwegian criminal law and which are clearly illegal, regardless of who does. I don't get time to go into all of this. But I would say that the debate about PST's activities is central to this. I would like to stress that the starting point here, also for the general police, is that it is a prerequisite that everyone who is in Norway and who is going to Norway – whether it is a grandmother or it is an imam – must respect Norwegian law. It follows from Section 17 of the Foreign Affairs Act that all applicants for a residence permit or visa ‘can be refused an authorisation if it encourages an offence or otherwise acts in such a way as to give reason to refuse entry on grounds of internal security, public policy or foreign policy considerations’. I feel that the cleaning up that the representative of Skei Grande is calling for has been done by Stortinget. It is very clear in relation to what can actually be used as a basis to refuse both visas and other permits that would provide the basis for residence in the kingdom. The challenge is practice, and the challenge is to get to know the elements that contribute to getting into this category. It's not an easy problem. But I want to warn you very strongly against making it so that no grandmothers are allowed to come to Norway, while it is free to all imams. It's not like that. As Minister of Justice, I may be presented with more documents than the public will. I'm going to be, so I see it. But I actually see that the legal cleanup against this works. And I see that the practical and actual distribution of responsibilities between the Foreign Office and the general police – and in particular the police security service – works. That cleaning up has been done by the government. So there should be close contact between these authorities, as well as the EEAS, so that you can see – and be able to stop – illegal activities, among others. by refusing a visa. There is therefore a continuous and close dialogue between several authorities on these issues. I am aware that there have been headlines in the newspapers about some imams that have been reacted to. But that doesn't mean police security doesn't follow. As far as the police security service is concerned, it's like working after three axes. Firstly, the police security service has a clear obligation to prevent and prevent. Secondly, when criminal offences have taken place, investigation should be carried out and investigation carried out. As far as prevention is concerned, significant methods are available and intervention is possible before there are any grounds for suspicion. The third thing that I think is so important, and that started under the previous government, is the police security service's transparency line and dialogue line. The dialogue line that was then chosen and that we have continued and strengthened, among other things: to Muslim Student Communities and other groupings, not only has contributed to a dampening of conflict but it also provides more useful information when it is necessary to obtain information in order to reach correct decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3447	The President would point out that the expression'souling it all' is an unparliamentary expression. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3452	I hear what others say about Section 17 of the Foreign Affairs Act – which, to the extent that the Council of State also refers to in its letter to the Committee – in cases where entry can be refused on grounds of internal security, public order or foreign policy considerations. That is, to the extent that it is a good provision. The question is just: it is not always possible to know about this in advance, and you will often be able to see in the light of the postwar clock that you should perhaps have refused entry for people who spread hatred towards the West. Does the Council of State totally reject the provision of Section 6-1 of the Foreign Regulation in order to restrict the possibilities for imams to come to the Kingdom? Do you reject it altogether, or are you open to think about the problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3459	I have learned in this industry here, or in this business – I get to stick to parliamentary language themes – that you should never say anything. But that's what I think is very important when we develop criminal laws and rules that restrict people's freedom, and that's the principle that it's the individuals to be assessed. When we move over to group definitions and start to relax the rights up against groupings, whether that's the country you come from, or what kind of belief you have, or what kind of profession you have, we're going to be skeptical about entering into constraints – just because you have a professional title or because you have a national background. I'm not just saying it from a human rights perspective, but I believe that it is also ineffective justice in itself, and that if we're going to get a regulation and enforcement of the legislation that actually gives effect, we have to put forth effort and be as precise as possible. But that doesn't mean – and that's where I agree with the questioner – that it's easy to tell what people's intentions are when they get to Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3466	I was in my post on the situation that Ethiopian refugees in Norway obviously experience, and which may also be parallel to the case of Iranian imams. When this environment – now I am talking about the Ethiopian – reports to the PST that there is a very intensive monitoring of the activities and activities of the exile environment, and when it is said that this is not a matter we give priority to, I think it is a little bad with the priorities that Storberget just stated that the PST should take care of in terms of prevention. The question then is, is it that PST has such a scarce resource situation that they need to prioritise some environment rather than other environment? Or is it so that everyone who has been given residence in Norway, who has fled, has the same right to protection from the surveillance of foreign powers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3473	The answer and the starting point are clear: everyone has the same protection – of course. I have not attended the same meeting that the representative of Greece has attended, but I might also like to listen to the version of the PST before I conclude on that question. But it may be that you've felt that you can't get anywhere with these questions, that you have a sense of, or a assurance that you've been monitored, because you haven't succeeded in the matter. I would like to emphasise this: the PST and also the general police have a clear obligation to follow up on these types of activities, but that does not mean that it is simply easy to do so. To reveal it and to organise it is very difficult, and often they are responsible for such activity far outside of Norwegian jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3482	I would also like to take from the minority's remark to strengthen both the PST and our foreign stations and use the visa rules. I am surprised that the government parties would not be in it, with the background of the NRK Dagsrevyen's statement that there have been imams to Norway that spread hatred against the West and call for terrorist acts. Had you used the visa rules, you would have given the PST the opportunity to monitor this, this is something that could be revealed. So I don't think I've got a good enough answer to why the government won't join in supporting such a comment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3489	Now it's probably the fractions in Stortinget that decide – but in dialogue with us, of course. But what I want to say is that I don't want it to be left here as an impression that the police security service and the Norwegian authorities are not using the visa rules. It may well be that you do not hear about the times when you refuse to give a visa, precisely on the basis of e.g.: Section 17 of the Foreign Affairs Act and that you hear about the cases where you suspect something else and where you have received a visa. I want to underline it. I can also confirm that the Department has handled matters where this has just been used, and has also seen the close link between the Police Security Service and the Foreign Office in some cases. But it's not easy to get an overview of all of the things here. In terms of the resource situation of the PST, we don't have to go to the minority in the Storing or previous government parties to ask for it. It is true that since 2005, the government has chosen to significantly increase the resources of PST — by 58 pst. So it had to be a red-green government to get a strong police security service.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3498	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3503	I really didn't intend to take the word. That's why I went out when the representative, Skei Grande, had the floor, because then I thought I wouldn't take the floor. But unfortunately I came to listen to the representative Holmås from the office. He had a dream that there would come a female imam. I can share that dream that we should have a female imam in Norway. I can take a bet with the representative Holmås here and now. I don't know how much you want to know, and it's probably not parliamentary to bet from the pulpit, but I can guarantee you, there won't be any female imam. Maybe you can start by doing it so that women get access to the second floor of the mosque. We can start there. Or maybe we can do it so that women are allowed to go alone out of the apartment without being escorted by a man. We can start there. Sons and men are the superiors and liberated, while women shall stay at home. The advantage of these women is that they do well in school, because they read instead of going out. That's what the Evening Post has still written about. But that's not exactly freedom, at least not self-chosen freedom. If you start with an imam, i.e. a female imam to teach men the Qur'an's commands and restrictions, etc., good luck! I wish the representative every success. So to the State Council of Storberget who said you have to respect Norwegian law in order to have access to the kingdom. That was the word of course, or of course, he used. Yes, but the human rights of the United Nations, as far as I've heard and become chairman of this Chamber, is predominantly Norwegian law, incorporated into Norwegian law and actually elevated in relation to Norwegian law. So these are the values of equality and equivalency and freedom of expression and religious freedom, etc., which consists of the human rights of the United Nations, which is the supreme law of Norway. And if you have to respect Norwegian law to enter the country, you could do an investigation, which this proposal involves, and see whether imams respect Norwegian law and are not funded by or come from countries that do not respect the values on which Norway is based. It can't be hard to do, but it's clear that if the Council of State wants to be so selective in the argument that at one moment he uses that argument and at the next moment he uses that argument, of course you never agree. So the Grand Mountains Council: I encourage you not to take the floor, because we're never going to agree, and you're always going to defend something that it's completely impossible to defend.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3518	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 15th [[Fotation, see page 3379]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3534	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. In addition, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to four lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3543	This representative proposal from the Left was promoted in the wake of the Maria Amelie case and contains eight proposals which have as their common denominator to facilitate the situation of immigrants residing illegally in Norway. The Committee supports the aims of the proposers to minimise the illegality of Norway. The Committee also supports the views of the proposers on the need to seek voluntary return arrangements and the use of forced return where possible. In the proposal, proposers wish to focus on those who cannot be sent out of the country because Norway ‘does not have a return agreement with the country of origin, because the country of origin refuses to accept it, or because it is practically impossible, or very difficult, to return the persons’. The majority of the Committee, all except for the Christian People's Party, would point out that what is listed in the preceding paragraph is a heterogeneous group, most of which can return to their country of origin voluntarily. Furthermore, the majority would point out that there should be a difference between the residence assessment of persons cooperating with the authorities on return and identification and those who do not. The Committee further points out that the matter has been referred to the Minister of Justice, who, in his reply of 18 February, carries out a thorough review of the proposals. The Committee would point out that the proposers in the heading use the term ‘migrants in Norway without a legal stay’, while in the text they use the term ‘paperless’. The Committee will use the term ‘migrants in Norway’ in its opinion. ‘Proposal 1: The Storting asks for a human rights analysis of the situation of paperless persons in Norway’ To this end, the majority of the Committee considers that Norway has committed itself, through its accession to a number of international conventions, to take account of human rights and that it is assumed that the relationship with human rights is assessed by the introduction of legislation in all disciplines. On this basis, the majority do not wish to support the proposal. ‘Proposal 2: The Storting asks the Government to consider when granting permanent residence permits to long-term residents in Norway on the basis of an assessment of different models in European countries’ Here the majority points to and refers to the announced child-breeding announcement. The majority respond to the notification and assessment of the importance of the stay of children. The members of the Committee of the Progressive Party and the Right do not wish to support a proposal which gives amnesty to illegal immigrants who have not complied with the decision to return to their country of origin. ‘Proposal 3: The Storing asks the Government to review the right of conversion practices to see whether new facts are adequately taken into account’ Here another majority of the committee says that all applications for protection are dealt with individually and thoroughly by UDI and UNE. The majority also refers to the Mæland Committee’s investigation NOU 2010: 12 New appeal mechanism for foreign affairs, where legal certainty issues in the appeal process are under consideration. It shall shortly be sent to the hearing and the majority shall attend to the follow-up to the work of the panel. «Proposal 4: The Government asks the Government to make the necessary changes to the Foreign Affairs Act to make it clear from the text of the law that a refusal to apply must be sound from a child law point of view» This is where the majority of the Committee points out that a new foreign law entered into force on 1 January 2010. The legal position of children has been strengthened through both the proposition, legal provisions and regulatory provisions, including: to ensure that the requirements of the Convention on the Rights of the Child are respected. The majority also refer to the situation of long-term children and the forecasted ageing message in its comments on proposal 2. «Proposal 5: The government asks the government to further specify what falls under the concept of "migration regulatory considerations"» Here the Committee suggests that the government points to Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act, where a number of factors have been put into practice, which is the basis for an overall assessment. There the members of the Committee from the Right and the Christian People's Party go in and say that we also want to assess for reasons that move in a positive direction – what is used in Section 38 is essentially restrictive proposals. For example, it should be assessed whether the applicant concerned has acquired training and competence which could move towards a positive treatment of an application for residence. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party have therefore signaled that we want to support this proposal from the Left. «Proposal 6: The government asks the government to ensure that those residing in the country are entitled to health care in addition to emergency care...» Here the Committee points out that the Ministry of Health and Health has sent to the hearing a proposal to amend the priority regulation, which will better deal with this with immediate assistance and health care as is absolutely necessary. «Proposal 7: The government asks the Government to give a new instruction to its Nav offices to deal with emergency aid requests under the Social Services Act in a humane way» Here the Committee refers to the regulation adopted in 2004 and assumes that Nav will follow it. ‘Suggestion 8: The Storting asks the Government to investigate the possibility of a change in its application for a residence permit under Chapter 3 of the Act by aliens who are in the State in the context of an application for protection.’; Here the majority of the committee says that we don't want to put in place a system where you can change queues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3600	The policy we pursue in the field of asylum and refugees is very important, because this is about people in need. We have international obligations to accept people who need our protection. We must have a consistent, fair and secure refugee and asylum policy in line with the Soria Moria declaration. So what does that mean? This means, among other things: that we have a competent and effective apparatus capable of dealing with matters within a reasonable time. That means that those who need protection will get it. It means quick return, preferably on a voluntary basis, for those who do not have the right to protection. It is a human right to seek asylum. That is why it is also very important that our asylum policy is clear and predictable. No one has earned that a large number of people without the need for protection still try to stay on this basis. No one has earned the right to remain in Norway without a legal stay. Everyone agrees. Since the red-green government took over in 2005, there has been a systematic effort to reduce the number of groundless applications, to monitor the residual situation of foreign agencies and to speed up the implementation of these rejections. This policy is now beginning to produce results. The number of asylum seekers has decreased, the UDI is dealing for the first time in a long time with more cases than they receive. It will also benefit them to be, in the form of increased resources for faster settlement and better integration. In addition, it will allow for increasing the number of quota refugees, which is perhaps the weakest group of all. The left, with some of its proposals in this case, signals a desire to reverse this policy, with the consequences it will have, among other things. for future asylum seekers. It's a bad signal to give, that just you can stay in Norway long enough without legally staying, you get to stay. This will lead to new growth in applicants without a need for protection. This will result in even more people putting their lives on hold in an attempt to avoid return, instead of using the return programs that exist. This will weaken the legitimacy of asylum policy. It's just those people who need protection who lose it. Legal certainty is weakened if there is a premium to stay illegally in the country. At the same time, it is not difficult to recognise that asylum and refugee policy raises many human dilemmas. Firstly, the long-term child, secondly, the possibility of necessary health care, and thirdly, the right to emergency care. Children are not responsible for the actions of their parents. In the context of Storting's treatment of the new law on foreigners, it was explicitly stated that the best interests of children should be given greater weight than under the old law. This is clearly reflected both in the proposition, in the legislative text, in the debate in Stortinget and in the subsequent regulations. The Convention on the Rights of the Child applies and the Government has initiated its own notification work on children on refugees, assessing further measures. The right to necessary health care is now addressed through planned changes to the priority regulation. The matter has been at the hearing and is being dealt with by the government. In the case of proposal 5, where the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party do not wish to participate in all the comments of the Right and Christian People's Party, it is because we believe that the listing made in relation to Section 38 of the Foreign Affairs Act is good enough listing, and we do not see any need for further investigation of the basis of that paragraph. In the case of emergency financial assistance under the social services law, it also includes persons residing illegally in Norway. However, the principle of subsidiarity is interpreted in such a way that persons with other means of living are not entitled to financial benefit. Persons who have applied for asylum shall be offered accommodation. They are therefore not entitled to social benefits from the municipality. Persons who have been refused asylum may be offered accommodation. The Ministry of Justice has instructed the UDI to receive such an offer at the latest in January of this year. They will therefore not be entitled to social benefits from the municipality either. Persons without legal residence who have never applied for asylum in Norway are also not offered accommodation. They will be entitled to emergency assistance and, where appropriate, housing services under the Social Services Act. Finally, a few words about two of the other proposals that are being made: the study of the Mæland Committee is being consulted. The committee has reviewed the appeal procedure in foreign matters. The proposal to switch queues, from asylum seekers to migrant workers, for persons living in Norway, is not accepted. The majority do not want to contribute to the institution of asylum being undermined in this way. The solution adopted in connection with the Maria Amelie case is, in the majority's view, a better solution. Asylum policy is firm. Instead, changes were made to the rules on labour immigration. This case and other cases show that it is both possible and desirable to adjust the legislation if we see that it produces unintended effects. The majority will continue to be a guarantor of a consistent, fair and legally secure refugee and asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3629	I would first like to thank the Left who has raised this matter, and I would already like to say that from the Christian People's Party we will support all the proposals that are now distributed in the Chamber. It's only barely 14 days since we had a similar debate in Stortinget. The Christian People's Party invited to an interpellation debate about just this group that is staying in Norway without legal residence, or paperless, which is also a term used about this group. What has been the great focus of the Christian People's Party on this matter is precisely this group of people who have been here for a long time, who either cannot be returned, or that it is difficult to return them for various reasons, among other things. because we do not have return agreements with any of these countries. We know that many of these people have been in the country for a very long time. It's said that someone's been here for as long as 16 years. Then we're talking about a very long time. We also know that many of these are families with children, and as we have dealt with this matter so far, where we only point to the return, return, return, so we conduct a policy in which children are punished for mistakes that their parents make. We almost demand that children put their lives on hold, and I think it is completely unreasonable to pursue such a policy towards a group of people who, for various reasons, are unable to return. They stay here, and now experience that they live in a limbo life, deprived of all rights. We were, as the representative of Greece said, today at the House of Literature in a debate and met Ethiopian refugees. These are refugees who, until now, have at least had the opportunity to support themselves. They have had tax cards that enable them to be in work. They have also lived in municipalities where the municipality has given them start-up loans, so that they could establish their own housing. All this was taken from them overnight. I was myself and met them in the Cathedral when there was action there. One thing was that they had been deprived of the opportunity to work, but it was the feeling of being deprived of all the rights that really hurt. At some point you have to cut through and say that enough is enough. At some point one must be able to discuss some form of regularisation of this group. It is not about giving residence to absolutely everyone who is staying illegally in the country. The people we're talking about here are the people who've been here for five years or more, who can't be returned. That group might be between 1,500 and 3,000 people. So we're not talking about thousands of thousands. Similar regularisations have been made in Europe without the collapse of the asylum institution in those countries. Why does the Christian People's Party believe that it is wise to consider a regularization of this group? I would like to say at the outset that the Christian People's Party agrees with the majority in this Chamber that asylum seekers who are finally refused and do not meet the criteria for a residence permit in Norway must go home and that it should be done on a voluntary basis. However, the situation is such that there are still some asylum seekers who are not travelling for various reasons. So the authorities that are responsible for for forcing them to return, they don't have the power to do that. As a result, in Norway we get a group of undetectable — or paperless — which is the concept that has been used — that lives on the outside of society. This is an unfortunate situation, both for those involved and for society. It can be hoped that this problem will disappear by itself, for example, that all the paperless will eventually choose to cooperate on returns after they realise that the Norwegian authorities do not want to comply. But in reality, we see that this does not happen. We believe that political authorities have a responsibility to find a solution and to help reduce the number of people who live in Norway without rights, both in the interests of society and the person concerned. I understand the fundamental arguments that going underground is not going to pay off, and that you don't want to put in place schemes that can have major immigration-regulating consequences, but I think this won't be a situation where the whole asylum institution breaks down. [[President clubs]] President, I would just like to take up the proposal on which the Christian People's Party is also involved in this matter, and I therefore signal that we support the other proposals from the Left, which are distributed in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3646	The representative Confessor has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3649	To follow up the post of the Christian People's Party, I would say: or one can choose to apprehend illegal immigrants and transport them to their country of origin. That's the obvious solution, but obviously you don't want to go into it. I have to say that it is refreshing to hear the representative Sivertsen put forward old party arguments, and to point out, of course, that there is a link between the kind of asylum policy being pursued on the one hand and the influx of asylum seekers on the other. Until recently, the party of progress has been alone to foreshadow, and to demonstrate, that context. I do not know how many times I have been involved in debates with representatives of the Labour Party – also former government councils responsible for this field – who have denied this connection. It's great that you've come this far in the Workers' Party. SV is still not there, they still deny this obvious relationship that all European countries have actually had. But there must be an internal disagreement between the government parties. I have to say that I get a little tired when I see these suggestions that have been put on the table today. Just so it is clear: the party of progress is voting against all of them. I have to say that I react in particular to proposal 1, which is in fact a recipe for general amnesty for people who have abused the institution of asylum and stayed for a long time as illegal immigrants in Norway – they reward crimes. I think it is very special that you at all make yourself promote that kind of proposal based on the principle of having respect for the law and that the law should be equal to everyone. I also think – again – that it was a liberating argument put forward by the representative Sivertsen that we should not be able to switch queues, i.e. from asylum seekers to migrant workers. The problem with the government party The Labour Party and the government is that, in principle, a similar system has already been proposed, rather limited in relation to how many people it will affect. But with the new instructions, which we were made aware of on the appropriate date of April 1st last week, you actually add up to the same thing – basically – even if you limit your personality, and with reference to the so-called Maria Amelie case: she swaps tracks. She is switching tracks from being an asylum seeker and having her asylum application rejected to seek work immigration. The only difference is that she has to apply from another country. She then comes under the rules of immigration, it is said. It remains to be seen whether she actually meets the conditions of the new instruction when UDI is going to deal with that matter. But leave it. The principle is that the government has swallowed the same way of thinking, and you actually reward a person who has been illegally on Norwegian territory for a long time and who has even taken education without having a claim to it. The reason why she may be able to return to Norway is precisely the education she has taken illegally in Norway. It's a very interesting issue and a moral dilemma the government has placed itself in. Then it appears as nothing but very hollow when the Labour Party's representative is here talking about equality of law, and you can't allow double tracks and that kind of thing. Here the government lacks quite great credibility, at my discretion. What should at least not happen, and I think it is good for a clear majority of the committee to be united on, is for us to come up with new rules that in practice open up amnesty systems. I see that you now do from the Left and Christian People's Party. It's very disappointing that the Christian People's Party is willing to go into that kind of policy, but I'm recording that that's what you do with proposal no. 1st@item: inlistbox We don't solve any problems with amnesty, let's be aware of that. There must be equality for the law, I remember a State Secretary said a few months ago on the in and out breath.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3662	At first I would like to say that I think it is commendable that the Left is travelling the discussion about the situation of the paperless. I have been able to do so myself on several occasions, for the first time in 2003. We made a proposal for which we thus received a unanimous increase, and which made sure that children who had been in Norway for a long time were given the opportunity to stay, because we felt that consideration for the best interests of the child was a fundamental consideration that had to be taken into account. In 2004, the Christian People's Party and the Left voted down a similar proposal, but let go, that's okay, because that's the way it is when you're in government with other parties. We were later given the opportunity to make a similar change for children on the basis of a Christian People's Party proposal, which the government at the time concluded and introduced as part of Norwegian law, namely that consideration for the child's best interests should be a fundamental consideration. The government insists on this, and that is why the government is going to present a big message on that very topic, namely children who are on the run. For children, a particularly vulnerable group deserves special attention and needs not to respond to parental decisions. Parents make choices that affect children, we see in every other context, and the children are not to suffer for that. That's what the parties here on the Storting are reasonably united about. Some have voted against the arrangements we have put in place for the sake of children. I guess that's both the Right and Advance Party, as far as I can remember, right will correct me if I'm wrong. It's one of those areas where I think we have a right policy. Not to mention the debate on the situation of the undocumented or to take the discussion about people who do not have legal residence in Norway but who are still here year after year, is to put their heads in the sand. Therefore, all government parties are set to take that discussion. By now there will be a major discussion on this at the National Labour Party meeting in connection with the integration policy programme, which clearly shows that this is something that all parties in the government want to deal with and to which the Christian People's Party and the Left also relate. The progress party does not relate to this. They claim, and that's the first thing said by the representative of Amundsen here, that if the Progress Party had been ruled, only Iranians would have been sent back to the regime that was used harshly in the previous debate, a criticism I share. But it is that Iran refuses to accept Iranian citizens who do not want to return. Similarly, it is with the chaos in Somalia, where people fleeing from the area that is inhabited by, among other things, the Islamic courts, which are responsible for a policy far from all the values that we share here in the Norwegian economy, cannot be returned to that country. Similarly, it is in Ethiopia and Eritrea. Then you can sit and say, "We refuse to deal with this, there are a lot of people out there." Or you can talk to them. I feel that all the parties here in Stortinget are interested in doing so, except for the Progress Party. And then you have to deal with it in a slightly different way. Part of what the government has done is about health services, where we have a review and have had a proposal for a hearing. We clarify the requirements for health services for those who do not have a legal residence in Norway. We are clear that we are going to review the complaint and the requests for conversion that are one of the points raised here by the Left and Christian People's Party. We are doing that and we are going to come back to Stortinget at a later stage. We also have a proper review of what kind of housing offers and what kind of emergency services are to be given to people who do not have legal residence. At the latest today, we were in a discussion about the type of accommodation to be provided, where several of the Ethiopian asylum seekers who have been refused, but who do not have a residence permit in Norway, reported that this was creating uncertainty again. These are things that we just have to grab hold of and make sure is clear. We also have to have an overall review of it at a later stage. In short, most European countries have some form of regulation. We have it for kids. We need to discuss how to deal with an increasing number of people in Norway in the time to come. I am pleased that we have had this opportunity to debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3685	I'm not going to spend time commenting on so many others. I just want to say to Per-Willy Amundsen that now he sounded very different than when he was in the debate program right after the Maria Amelie case. It's very tiring to be a populist. It's very hard to try to get the positions to actually fit together. I'm a liberal. This means that you start with the individual, you find solutions for the individual. You don't treat people as groups, you treat people as individuals. We believe that if you do not receive residence or asylum in Norway, you should be sent out, but if you acknowledge the reality around you, it is not all it is possible to send out. In 22 European countries, measures to regulate this group have been implemented. The left has never used the word amnesty. I'm against using amnesty. Amnesty assumes that you've committed a crime. These haven't. They have applied for asylum, which is a human right. Most of them have worked and paid taxes and been law-abiding citizens in Norway. It is, of course, a heterogeneous group, which must be treated as an individual. I want Norway to have a system that is similar to the system in many of the 22 European countries, which is partly led by right parties far, far from what is called Right in Norway, and far away from Per-Willy Amundsen, in fact, sometimes. But they've had enough propriety to treat individuals that way. That's what I want. Let me say something about the suggestions. When we presented this proposal, we presented it in relation to what was said by the other political parties in the debate at that time. We also didn't produce what was our ideal solution. No, we made pretty open proposals, because we actually thought that some of the parties were going to stand for what they meant a few months ago. What I find strangest is that we do not get a majority in favour of this proposal. 2, that is to get a human rights analysis of the situation of paperless people in Norway. What's dangerous about that? We are asking for a review of the human rights situation for this group. What do you expect from results if it's very dangerous? What is the result of such an analysis? We want to review the practice in those cases where there are new facts. So I have to say something about proposal No. 4, about the child law. Heikki Holmås said that the best of the children should apply. That's wrong. Actually, that doesn't even mean the Left. The best thing for children is almost always to be in Norway if you want to assess it. What we proposed when the Foreign Affairs Act was being treated was that the best thing for the child was to be given weight – that one should have an assessment of the best for the child, that it should be included in the assessment. It was voted down by SV and the rest of the government parties. It was only the Left and Christian People's Party that wanted to strengthen the child law in the Foreign Act. We lost with bad luck and bram. This is the government that will not even ratify the right of appeal for individuals under the Convention on the Rights of the Child. We have punished children at all times for their parents' sin. This is the field where we are still doing it, and children's rights are very weak. It is therefore a weak wording that it must be sound from a child law point of view. But not even that's what you can get a majority for. I am very happy for the support of the Christian People's Party. I am very pleased that the Christian People's Party and the Right also support us on proposal 5 to go through the concept of 'immigration-regulating considerations'. Health care has been commented on by many. I think it's a fundamental security for me as a citizen of Norway that people around me have adequate health care. I want to know that whoever's behind me on the bus doesn't have tuberculosis. Then I'm going to spend the last seconds changing the queue. Sweden has implemented this system. If you have a regular job when the discount comes, and if you can show that the job you have had over time, you can change the queue. Has this led to disaster? Has the Asylum Institute in Sweden collapsed? No, but that means that Sweden has approx. 500 immigrant workers each year who are well qualified, well integrated, know the language and have a regular job. It's not a crisis if they stay in Sweden.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3708	The President assumes that the representative, Trine Skei Grande, has taken up the proposals she has mentioned in the post.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3711	Yeah, that's right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3717	Before commenting on the eight proposals that have been put forward – if I reach everything – I would like to underline the basics of the government's asylum policy, which are filled with dilemmas every day and – I kept saying – in every single case. Asylum seekers who fulfil the conditions for protection or residence on a humanitarian basis shall be allowed residence. Those who don't, obligations to go home. Most countries accept their own citizens who want to return, and annual voluntary and assisted returns to a number of countries for which we are currently unable to make forced returns. It's important to underline. We also have support schemes to motivate voluntary return, and we see that the number is growing. Rewarding long-term illegal residence with a residence permit will weaken the entire government's work on asylum policy, including return work. More seriously, granting a residence permit in such a situation would undermine our asylum system and our ability to help people who actually have a real need for protection. I therefore share the Committee's objective that the least possible stay is illegal in Norway and that we must strive for voluntary return arrangements and the use of forced return where possible. I am also pleased that a large majority agree that the stay assessment should distinguish between those who cooperate with the authorities on return and identification and those who do not. So to the proposals: I record that the majority of the committee, like the government, does not see the need for a human rights analysis of the situation of persons without legal residence in Norway, cf. proposal No 1st@item: inlistbox Our international obligations are already incorporated into Norwegian law by the Human Rights Act. In the event of a conflict, the provisions of the Convention prevail before the Norwegian law, and in the event of doubt, the interpretation result which is consistent with the Convention obligation shall be chosen. Furthermore, human rights are assessed by the introduction of legislation in all disciplines. I would also like to remind you that UDI and UNE consider the relevant Convention obligations in their handling of individual cases. Such an analysis could also be complicated in the sense that human rights are individual rights and could be different because of what kind of individual we are facing, and there are many. So this I believe needs to be handled just by UDI and UNE in the individual cases. Furthermore, I am pleased that a broad majority does not support proposal No. 2, that the government should consider granting permanent residence permits to long-term residents in Norway on the basis of an assessment of different models in European countries. As long as the situation is such that a non-resident who has received a final refusal to apply for protection may return voluntarily, the government does not want to reward illegal residence with a residence permit. I would like to stress that Norway is not in the same situation as other European countries that have carried out regularisations in very special situations. I don't have time to go into it now, but there are very special reasons and which I think are clearly not comparable to the situation in Norway. It is also wrong to present it as if Norway should now be one of the strictest regimes in this field. I believe that both the number of asylum seekers, the number of concessions and how we have organised the administration of foreigners – a broad political community – are among the best in Europe. In addition, I would like to remind you that we already have rules that allow a foreigner’s residence time to be weighted in assessing whether there are grounds for staying in Norway. The law allows residence if there are strong human interests or if the foreigner has a special connection. Special attention shall be paid to the link between children and the State. A stay may also be provided if there are practical obstacles to the return of the non-resident. However, the government wants to look at the situation of children who have lived illegally for a long time in Norway. We have notified it, and more people have been involved in it, and that is something that I also sail is very concerned about. Children are not guilty of choosing their parents. The government will provide a children's pooling message before summer. Central issues will be discussed here, including the situation of long-term children and whether there is a basis for embellishment of practice, so that illegal residence times are less than today’s. There are many dilemmas here. We want to go into these. Like the committee, I assume that all applications for protection are dealt with individually and thoroughly by UDI and UNE. I therefore do not see the need for proposal No. 3, on a specific review of practices in transformation cases to see whether new facts are adequately taken into account. Now I see that time is running out for me. I can't go through everything, but we'll get back to it. We have a little narrower speaking time than what we've had in previous debates, I've noticed, but it was about snowmobiles and other important things.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3743	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3746	The Minister of Justice pointed out in his speech the importance that we are constantly working on voluntary returns, and I fully agree with him on that. The best thing is that those who are not allowed to stay return voluntarily. But then we have a group of people in Norway who, for various reasons, cannot be returned. It is also those who cannot return because the country of origin does not want to accept them. So that group of people doesn't have an answer to what to do with it. They are – as I said in the post – in a limbo situation, excluding all rights, but they are here. What will the Minister of Justice say to exactly this group of people who are not going to be able to return for different reasons, but who are here?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3751	As I said in my post, there is a certain access to admitting residence and being allowed to be in the country when you cannot be returned because of conditions that the asylum seeker does not have. But I think there is a significant difference in the perception that the representative Bekkevold has of the possibilities of voluntary return, and what is actually applicable. It is, as I also said in my post, a great opportunity to return voluntarily, also to countries where it is not possible for us as a state to carry out forced return. That is why I think it is important to be consistent with these. There are now many who actually choose to travel voluntarily, with good voluntary arrangements, and there is a good arrangement both for them and for us, that it becomes so non-discrimination that you don't start to get on or go into what is actually the will of the person.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3756	We have asked for a human rights review of these matters in relation to this group. It is not about the implementation of human rights in legislation or regulations. We want a review – an analysis – of the situation for this group. It does not want government parties. Then my question to the Council of State is, what is he afraid to find? What is the Council of State afraid to find in such an analysis? Why is it difficult to assess this from a human rights perspective? Why is it so scary to get these facts on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3763	The reason why we don't want to do that is because we think we find very little that can give us something to help shape the asylum policy of the future. I heard with interest the representative Skei Grande's comments in the previous debate, that they didn't like group thinking, but they were going to go into the individual's rights, and that's what this is all about. Human rights are for the individual, whether it be faith, health, family life or freedom of expression. It has to be assessed on a case-by-case basis, and therefore I think it makes no sense to say that we are now going to make an investigation into the human rights situation of those who are in Norway illegally. This is where I believe that the real assessment of the human rights situation of these people is just being made by the alienation authorities against the need for humanitarian protection or residence.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3768	I think these are also individuals that can be evaluated. I can ask the Council of State further: the Council of State is very pleased with the return arrangements that the government is now pushing through – also to regimes that we do not like. Now we are told that a 19-year-old boy is in one of the worst terrorist prisons in Iran – after forced return from Norway. We get reports from North Africa, to which Norwegian asylum seekers have been sent back, and direct torture and imprisonment on arrival can also be proven. So I wonder if the Council of State is comfortable with all its return agreements, whether he is proud of these reports that are coming, and whether he still insists that we are not among the strictest countries in Europe in terms of immigration right now?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3775	I am at least not of such a calibre that I can pass judgment on the specific issues that the representative Skei Grande is now pulling into the main hall. I am surprised that the representative chooses to do so. The government, in particular in the first specific case mentioned, asked for a review and an explanation from, among other things. A foreigner’s note on that situation. I am very proud that it has now been possible to make an approach that makes asylum policy more effective than it was, namely the implementation of the decisions taken, and that, of course, after prior, thorough treatment both in the UDI and in the Foreign Affairs Department, policies are implemented, in the sense that it is implemented. Then I'm even more proud of establishing arrangements that make people travel voluntarily and that give people a good opportunity to establish a new and better life than what they would have had if they were driving that shuttle traffic, which is a lot of the asylum traffic actually is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3782	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3787	I'm just going to give State Council Storberget right in one thing, and it's that Norway is not at all among those countries in Europe that are pursuing the strictest asylum policy – there can be no doubt about that. Claiming something else is directly wrong. When I drew, it wasn't to push this debate forward. On the contrary, it was only to detect options errors. It appears on page 3 of the vote, proposal No. 3rd@item: inlistbox There is the fact that that majority comment also includes the Progress Party. The specific comment made by the majority comment is wrong. This is not the policy of the Progress Party. I stress that the Progress Party is to the greatest extent to look at a review of the practice of changeability. – Just so this has been said and that it is reflected in the debate. We are in agreement with the majority in that remark.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3797	Then the representative Per-Willy Amundsen has corrected and referred to the setting. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3379]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3817	I want with this interpellation to raise a debate about a matter I know very many are concerned about, and that has been much discussed in the media. These are mentally ill people who commit repeated crimes but are not liable to criminal law. These people cannot be punished for the crimes they commit because they have a mental illness. At the same time, they're too healthy to be taken care of by the psychiatry. The specialist health service says they have been processed and the municipalities have to take responsibility for them. On the other hand, the municipalities do not have a law to work on the basis of which they can defend coercive measures. We're dealing with a black player game, where the losing party is mentally ill people who become caste balls in a public bureaucracy with multiple levels of government, who just play the ball between themselves and don't take responsibility. In the evening of March 22, we could read about a man who had committed 588 crimes. It said: ‘41-year-olds have been arrested a number of times, but are always released He is too sick to be punished – too healthy to be subjected to forced treatment’ Why is that so? There's probably more answers to that question, but it's close to asking if there was something missing in the big reorganization of the psychiatry. St. Report. No 25 for 1996–1997 and the Plan of Ascendment with earmarked funds for the period 1998–2008 were a necessary reform and contributed to greater transparency about mental illness. Many mentally ill people, who had lived a large part of their lives in an institution, got a new and better life in the many organized homes that were established in the country. In addition to the provision of housing, day-care centres, psychosocial teams were established and followed up with advice and guidance at home and workplaces. St. Report. No 25 for 1996–1997, which was called Transparency and Completeness, and which referred to mental disorders and various services, suggested that everyone should have their own housing in society, as other people do. Psychiatric treatment should range from institution-based treatment to a rotation of more outpatient treatment from specialist healthcare in close cooperation with the community health service. In the context of the psychiatry reform, municipalities have been given more responsibility and new tasks. They have employed personnel with competence in mental health work and have expanded the services of the new target group they have been given. There has been a huge shift from the specialist health service to the municipalities of both tasks and responsibilities, but the municipalities have taken it. According to a report from SINTEF, there has been a reduction of 2 177 daily places in psychiatry during 1991-2006. The slogan has been: the time of asylum is over! Several psychiatric institutions have been reduced, and some are almost debilitated. The intention is no longer to live in an institution. Hospital treatment shall be short-term and temporary, with a clear objective of printing to the home as soon as it is assessed as sound. Most people agree that this has been a proper development, and many, as I said, have got a new and better life out in the municipalities. But even with good plans and many good services in place, there are still some people who don't fix their lives in the 'open' society. They experience living in a kind of ‘grey zone’ and are unable to do so, while the specialist health service says they have been fully treated. These people don't get better, they're chronically ill. Many people are psychotic almost all the time. These are the people you might have forgotten in your heart to reorganize the psychiatry. The ones we're talking about are those seriously ill with low functional levels who have a mental illness in combination with drug abuse those with mental illness and high levels of risk of violence those with mental illness in combination with ADHD, challenging behaviour and poor impulse control; These people need services, follow-up and help, but often do not realize it themselves. Self - insight is often very poor. In serious offences, they are sentenced to psychiatric treatment or sometimes to custody. In the smaller offences, there will be no response. Sometimes they are correctly driven by the police to the emergency ward in psychiatric hospitals when they are obviously psychotic. But they're just there for a few days, and then it's out again. They can't be punished for the crimes they do, because they're not predictable. Formerly, persons with such diagnosis lived and lived much of their lives in the major psychiatric institutions. Asylum was like small communities, with farms, shops, laundry services, horticulture and other crafts. They had both work and housing within the institutional area. The area was open, they could move freely around the municipality, but they got closely followed up when the behavior changed and gave cause for concern. I do not mean by this to say that asylums should be re-emerged. However, there are some elements of structure, follow-up and offer to those seriously mentally ill people who were carriers of asylum culture, which one might want to implement in a new form in the new measures and in all the organised housing being established. Some people need a specialised care most of their lives. They're done with treatment, but they still need close follow-up, because they're sick and have to live on with their severe mental disorder. The unpredictable mentally ill persons who commit repeated criminal acts are not so many. They're a few people, but they make a lot of difference. The police use a lot of resources on them. The same thing happens to the health care system. Family, neighbourhood and networks are often exposed to their unforeseeable behaviour and may be plagued by their criminal acts, which are often stealing, warfare and burglary. According to the Evening Post, the police say that they estimate that there are 25 to 30 criminals in Oslo who have more or less a ‘free ticket’ to commit many less serious but nevertheless atrocious illegal acts without risking punishment. Four-five of them are so active that they have received the name VIC, Very Important Criminals. The Vic Group of the Police is following criminal repeaters very closely. Some of them go in and out of psychosis. Therefore, some in the group may be penalised in some cases. Sometimes they go free. The current rules on criminal inviolability and specific criminal law reactions came into force on 1 January 2002. The former insurance institution was suspended and mental health protection was required to take responsibility for the implementation of special reactions for unaccountable. It was decided that a post-control check would be carried out after a few years. In 2006, the Ministry of Justice, in consultation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare, appointed a working group, the Melandic Group, to monitor the rules on criminal inviolability and specific criminal law reactions. The report was submitted on 30 April 2008. The report states that new instruments are needed to protect society from repeated and plagiaristic criminal acts carried out by improbable persons. The committee also believes that the threshold for condemning a specific criminal reaction should be lowered somewhat. The report was in consultation, with a deadline of 1 April 2009. The Ministry of Justice sent out a new letter of consultation last autumn, in October, with the consultation deadline now this year, on 1 February. This consultation note has been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare. This consultation concerns the extension of the scope of specific criminal law responses for unpredictable perpetrators of persistent and socially harmful crime. This was one of the proposals that the Hearing Officers were asked to give their views on in the context of the Mæland report. The hearing responses so far do not give any new signals. It's the same argument that goes on again, with disclaimer from all the bodies involved. Police and criminal services say that one should lower the threshold in order to condemn a particular criminal law reaction with the transfer to forced mental health protection. Psychiatry and health services believe that the measures that society considers necessary to ensure itself against crime need to be anchored in criminal care, and they are opposed to resolving criminal challenges in the field of mental health protection. The municipalities, as a third-party body, are afraid to get the full responsibility in jail and express great scepticism to enter into an agreement on fixed-term forced residence in a municipal institution. We're equidistant. The various bodies continue to shift responsibility from one to the next. It can't go on like that. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Will the Council of State take the initiative to make the necessary legislative changes that make it clear which body is responsible for reaction and follow-up when mentally ill ill people commit repeated crimes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3899	The answer is short and correct: Yes, I will take the initiative – I have taken the initiative. I'm a little surprised at the interpellation in that way. Initiatives are being asked to bring new legislation into place. It was therefore presented by the Ministry of Justice on 22 October last year, which also referred to the interpellant – when a new specific criminal law reaction was proposed and I, at best, tried to cut through a very comprehensive debate and presented ‘temporary forced stay in mental health protection’. The proposal we then sent out, which was based on the original position of the Mæland Committee, was subject to a deadline of 1 February 2011. We are now working, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare, to follow up the proposal, in the light of the input of the Hearing Officers. But it's also a pleasure, as the interpellant has noticed, that this reaction has been taken into account in the current year's budget, so that money has actually been allocated to it. It'll be all right, I see. The purpose of the new special reaction and its justification by the government is to facilitate long-term rehabilitation through stabilisation, possible detoxification, the identification of health and social needs and the preparation of a follow-up plan. This is a very complicated group, which I understand that the interpellant also has a great understanding of. It wouldn't help many of these to provide ordinary criminal care. There will be no possibility of coercive treatment, including medics, unless the conditions for the use of compulsory mental health protection are met. Most psychotic people with a high level of crime need comprehensive treatment and may need more services. A good investigation and follow-up requires that it be organised for cooperation and good communication between different relevant social services — which I think the interpellant highlights very well in its interpellation and in its justification — such as the use of drugs. community, specialist, Nav, social, child protection, school, police and criminal services. Proposals for joint preparation of a follow-up plan for convictions and access to communication in this context could contribute to this. The consultation proposal therefore includes a specific exception to the rule that the information concerned must consent to the exchange of confidential information between bodies. It's probably one of those fields where we really see that the obligation of confidentiality can sometimes be used as a reason and as a real seal for effective crime prevention. The maximum length of long-term forced stay in mental health protection is proposed on our side for six months. Six months may be necessary to carry out investigations and possible detoxification. If the investigation and any detoxification have been completed before six months, the special reaction shall cease. The background to the proposal is the existence of a small group of unpredictable individuals, including the interpellant, in an estimated 10 to 20 persons who repeatedly commit very painful criminal offences. Infringements in family relationships, threats and violence against public officials, large-scale acts of warfare, intimidation and perpetrators are examples of such crimes. These cannot be punished. Nor is it the law in force to use the specific criminal law reaction to the transfer to mandatory mental health protection — it does not come to an end. As the representative is aware, the special reactions on the transfer to forced mental health protection and forced care are reserved for the most serious offences that could violate the lives, health or freedom of others. They are timeless and very intrusive and would not really be particularly relevant to those we are talking about here. The group of perpetrators of repeated and perpetrators of crime often does not meet the conditions for admission to forced mental health protection either. Many abilities do not or do not always want to receive health care. It's complicated, it's difficult. It is as the representative points out, a ‘missing link’ or a hole, in the law. The purpose of this consultation proposal is precisely to try to close this gap. In addition, the need to extend the scope of the specific criminal law responses to cases of perpetrators of persistent and socially harmful crime has been assessed several times. In the spring of 2004, a limited back-testing of the specific criminal law responses was carried out for improbable purposes. The check revealed that there is a small group that is incalculable and particularly annoying. In the proposal for the general part of the new penal code promoted in 2004 — i.e. under the previous government — the Ministry pointed out that the best reasons are that solutions should be sought within the healthcare system for this group of unreliable people. Furthermore, the Ministry stated that ‘special reactions should in principle be reserved for offenders who may be dangerous to the lives, health or freedom of others’. The issue was further assessed in the context of ex post verification of the rules on criminal inviolability and specific criminal law reactions. The follow-up was carried out by an investigation team, which has also been involved in the interpellant, the so-called Mæland group, appointed in 2006 by the Ministry of Justice in consultation with the Ministry of Health and Welfare. The report was submitted on 30 April 2008. The Mæland Group notes in its report that new instruments are needed to protect society from repeated and plagiaristic criminal acts carried out by improbable persons. Furthermore, the report states that the threshold for condemning a specific criminal reaction should be lowered somewhat. The Mæland Group does not propose a fully-explored model with concrete legislative proposals, but provides an outline of a possible model of how a possible specific reaction to this group can be implemented. That was why we had to have a new round on this matter and send it out to the hearing in October and make the proposal. The initiative has been taken. At the same time, the Group recommends further consideration of the issue. The report was sent to the hearing on 1 April 2009. There we asked for views on this, and I share, to the extent that the inter-pellant's views on this point of view are shared by the hearing bodies. It often becomes a throwball, I get the impression. However, many hearing bodies supported the proposal to extend the scope of the specific criminal law responses. However, there were shared views on the content of any special reaction, which was closely related to who was actually going to do the job. Someone has to cut through. That is what the Ministry of Justice, in my opinion, has done so far when we have made a proposal, and when we have also chosen through the Health Service to allocate money for this already this year. Some supported the extension of existing legislation, while others wanted a time-limited response. Many of the hearing bodies were also negative or strongly opposed to extending the specific criminal law responses. We face very fundamental counter-conceptions quickly, which are, to a large extent, good counter-conceptions, because they are instruments and reactions that do not work fast and that do not make us bring down crime – either in the short term or in the long term. With this as a hindrance, that proposal for a temporal response was sent to the hearing in October 2010. At the same time, the government aims to extend the current special reaction to the transfer to forced mental health protection and to force care for crimes that are characterised by privacy violations and which repeatedly affect the same person in such a way that it is a form of systematic persecution. This means that persons who are repeatedly subject to criminal offences by a person who is not liable to criminal law are given special protection. Current specific reactions are time-indeterminate and may persist as long as the recurrence risk is present. Finally, I just want to say that I think it is commendable that the interpellant raises this issue in Stortinget. The initiative is taken from our side, but I'm going to be so open and honest and say that I think these are very difficult things, because we have to find responses that work. Besides, it's hard because it's a very vulnerable group, which can easily be hidden away in places where you don't get legal help, but where you get the opposite, and which makes you sit back, and we've really just gotten a derailment from what it's all about -- a rest cushion for society. Then we are quickly involved in instruments that also violate these people's fundamental human rights. I think we've managed to find a balanced solution that activates, that helps society take responsibility and do what you can. And then we'll probably have to experience in many of these things -- even in the future -- that we're not always able to control the human behavior, as we might wish. I thank you for the interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3933	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I have listened interested in the presentation, and I really feel that the Council of State is very concerned about this topic. I think it is nice that he has taken the initiative to do something about the problem. The principle that incalculable penalties cannot be imposed does not mean that convictions cannot be met with any reaction, as the Council of State also said. Irreprehensible persons who have committed a serious offence may, under more detailed conditions, be subject to a specific criminal law reaction. The specific reaction, involving the transfer to mandatory mental health protection, can be attributed to the psychotic or unconscious during the course of action and implemented within the framework of mental health protection, cf. the criminal law of 1902 § 39. But the specific criminal law responses can only be applied to offences of some seriousness. For example, individuals who carry out persistent social or criminal offences may: is not subject to any specific reaction according to current legislation, but it is now subject to consultation to extend and lower the threshold. That's why the man who wrote the Evening Post about last week goes free, even though he commits eight out of ten burglaries in parts of Oslo and charges society great costs. He says, according to the evening, that being a criminal is "good" and that it is "exciting" to commit an invasion. It is perceived as provocative by those who are exposed to burglaries and infractions, that nothing is being done to stop such unacceptable criminal behaviour. It is contrary to the general sense of law when, after careful planning and consideration, persons carry out repeated criminal offences without having any consequences in the form of either a criminal response or treatment. It is therefore nice that the Council of State has taken the initiative to change the law in order to seal the hole – this ‘missing link’ – in the law. However, it is regrettable that there has been such a long time with various investigations and several hearings in this case. It takes too much time before something is done. There has been a case of any legislative changes since 2006, and we are now in 2011. That is why I may be calling for even a little more action and progress from the Council of State. The ‘to cut through’, which the Council of State itself expressed earlier here, is on time. The necessary clarifications of responsibilities and legislative changes in this area are timely.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3946	It's taken time – it has. I think you should be careful about accusing someone that it has taken time, because I think this is difficult. It's a difficult discussion. I have to say that I have worn myself to what we have sent out at the hearing. But it wasn't in 2006 this discussion started. No, no, no, no, no! We have to go further in time. Many people have been working on this issue — really since we established the new special reactions, and it was known that there were groups that would not be subject to the very high thresholds applicable to specific criminal law reactions. We have seen the practice of the specific criminal law reactions that sometimes there is a rather stable decline, as I recall, in terms of the number that comes under the traditional specific criminal law reactions. But this has taken time for many governments. There's no excuse that we're not going to do anything right now. That's why I'm very happy that when you find a model, which I hope the Storting will join – because we get that discussion up in Stortinget – we can put it into action as soon as possible. That's why it has been a matter of power for me – and for the government – that we have actually spent money on it in the current year's budget, so that we can get legislation to come into force as quickly as possible, and start establishing and building up such an offer. I think that's absolutely crucial. When you have placed responsibility for this and you also have budgetary attention around it and at the same time you have a law that can catch something, I'm optimistic that you can tackle this better than you have done before. But I always explain myself with some reservations about this group of people, because I know that we can't assume that many of these can get healthy. It has to be done through completely different things than political decisions. It takes a lot of effort, and we'll always be in a situation where we don't really get there either. Then we'll try to look at what kind of measures can best protect us from the behavior that most of us see as undesirable. I also remind you that I have announced that we are looking at the extension of the existing arrangements, so that the threshold also changes slightly against what kind of activities you can intervene against, but it is particularly persistently annoyingly integrity-affecting activities that some people carry out, which we believe should be covered there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3961	The representative Bente Stein Mathisen places an important theme on the agenda with this interpellation. The essence of the interpellation – or in the question, whether you want to – is how I interpret it: how is society going to deal with mentally ill and unpredictable people who commit criminal acts? It's a good question, but it's also a difficult question, which unfortunately has no simple answer. When a person by definition is likely to commit a criminal offence, he is punished with a sentence, such as a social sentence or a prison sentence. However, people who are psychotic or highly devolved will often be defined as criminally unpredictable at the moment of action and thus cannot be sentenced to ordinary punishment. These are the people we are talking about in this debate. Many of these commit repeated crimes without having direct consequences. The interpellant refers to a report in the evening edition of the Evening Post a few weeks ago, where we read about a person who had committed nearly 600 crimes, without him being punishable. There was a police inspector named Bente Gerner in the Oslo police district who said to the evening edition: ‘The man is psychotic and therefore cannot be punished for the crimes he commits. At the same time, he is not so ill or dangerous to his environment that he can be treated with coercion. He falls between two chairs.’ I don't think we have a good enough system that captures these people, both because society isn't well enough protected from new criminal acts, and because several of those we're talking about here oppose or do not understand the necessity of neither investigation, treatment or follow-up, so that they can change the pattern of action, and thus prevent them from committing new criminal acts. That's what's at the heart of the challenge. That is why I am pleased with what the Minister of Justice said in his comments. The fact that the government will have a law in place, where these mentally ill criminal repeaters will be able to be transferred to mental health protection for a limited stay will, in my view, be an important and appropriate measure. Through such a specific criminal law response as outlined by the Minister of Justice, society will be more likely to interfere with the individual’s patterns of action. One will be able to determine, motivate and initiate current treatment in relation to the mental health status of the criminal. He or she can get help with his or her drug problem through detoxification and rehabilitation. If one really succeeds, one can gain understanding of the criminal in order for society to react to the criminal act, thus gaining understanding that criminal acts are unacceptable and that society must set limits on what is allowed and not allowed. Cooperation between mental health protection and relevant services such as the community's health and care services, the Nav, police and criminal services requires the identification of health and social needs, thus facilitating both a scheme to break the criminal pattern of action and the continuation of a scheme for individuals following the implementation of the specific criminal law reaction. Here, too, the keywords are fixed housing, close follow-up through employment and further treatment, rehabilitation and rehabilitation. In the long term, this will hopefully help to reduce criminal behaviour. The goal is that an overall arrangement around the individual will prevent those we are talking about from falling between the two chairs that police inspector Bente Gerner refers to. In a pictorial way, society, instead of individual chairs, must have a whole and coherent platform of measures to ensure that the mentally ill and unreliable criminals receive treatment and follow-up, while at the same time protecting society from the criminal acts they commit. Such a long bench of action is resource-intensive, but absolutely necessary to protect individuals and society. I see that I have some time left, and I'd like to ask a question to the interpellant and the Right: what do they mean they have to do beyond what the government is doing now, in order for the unpredictable mental illness not to fall between the two chairs, or to be ‘throat balls’ in the system, as the interpellant himself described in his post?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e3992	Thanks to the interpellant who is raising an important theme. She uses many examples of why this theme is so important. I agree with the interpellant that the Council of State has a genuine and genuine commitment to the matter. It's a pleasure. The Council of State used the expression that this is a ‘vulnerable group’ and that is clearly correct. The interpellant points out that this group is used in a so-called black player game – if I noted correctly. I think that is also a good expression, because you can easily get the impression that these are people where one government agency after another turns its back on the vulnerable, and rather points to each other and says that it is different from those who are responsible for the follow-up of these people. So you're left to lose on another arena. Police, criminal services, health services and municipalities all have their share of the responsibility for the further follow-up, but this has to be cleaned up. We can all easily understand what problems this leads to for the person who is in the center – the perpetrator – but the neighborhood, the community, is also struggling with this. I want to believe – and it's easy to understand – that the family around them is also having a hard time. Many people are losing out of this game. This has taken time to clean up. I would like to say from the Right that we understand that there are no simple solutions to this question, and the Council of State is largely using its intervention to justify why it has taken time. But it strikes me that instead of spending a lot of time on finding an assumed fasitant solution -- the solution that is somehow going to give the answer for all the future -- it's probably about approaching the solution by using the knowledge we have today, recognizing that we're getting more experience and knowledge gradually, and that we don't have a static attitude that we're now going to find the fasitant answer. Someone has to take responsibility. That is the responsibility of the Ministry of Justice. The right is not in doubt that this is where the matter has to be resolved. We meet the conclusions of the department in this matter, and from the Right we will follow it further up from there. We are pleased – to the extent that it is possible to enjoy something in this matter – that at least the Council of State has a genuine commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e4007	There is an important question that has been raised by the interpellant, not least because it affects one of the less charming features of our administration – blackjack games – unexplained responsibilities may be equally comprehensive. In any case, it's about a grey zone problem. I think it is illustrative that in this debate we could also have enjoyed having two councillors in the Chamber, the Minister of Health and the Minister of Justice. In 1998, the Stortinget made the diagnosis of "failure at all stages" of mental health protection. A unanimous increase joined the Roadmap for Mental Health, which we concluded in 2008. The plan had a strong focus on quantitative targets. This was necessary to ensure better capacity in the offer, so that more people would be helped. This quantitative escalation of efforts in this area has been necessary but not sufficient. We can't count and measure up to a good mental health protection. If we are to get a better offer for the mentally ill, we need to invest more in the quality of the offer. This is not a new expectation, but a expectation Right believes that we need to put significantly more emphasis on the future. We simply have to make sure that mentally ill people get help as helpers. For the Right, competence is a prerequisite for achieving the objective of good quality in healthcare. Good health and care services require expertise and clear responsibilities. Strict competence requirements for the operation of machinery and technical installations in this country are required. We should not have lower ambitions for human treatment, which, with all its different stories and characteristics, is more complicated than any technical device. It is also our expectation that grey-zone problems will receive equal focus from the government on the need for human help from different responsibilities in the Norwegian state – such as grey-zone problems in Arctic sea areas compared to other nations, are receiving. On 2 March last year, the Right raised an interpellation debate on how to ensure better quality in the treatment of mental health protection. There have been many organisational reforms in healthcare, and now we need a quality reform focusing on the content of healthcare. The right has proposed a new and strengthened quality strategy for healthcare, with increased emphasis on development of competences, research and education. In such work unclear responsibilities could be addressed. We have also proposed the development of several quality indicators to assess the content of healthcare. We need to have transparency about the results so that the offer can be improved. Work is in progress on quality assurance of the content of the supply to the mentally ill, but more pressure needs to be put on it. From the Right, we have also asked questions about whether we should have a somewhat greater degree of specialisation in the offers to ensure good competence for smaller patient groups, as we are talking about here. We believe that the decentralisation of mental health protection has been right and necessary, but we cannot expect all small disciplines to have effective services for all patients. We should therefore consider the possibility of specialising more, in particular in population strata. Lack of coherence in the provision of services is a major challenge in healthcare, not just in psychiatry. However, this particularly affects patients with mental and drug problems who need complex services over time. Right-wing belief in lowthreshold municipal interventions that can provide rapid and good assistance before developing more serious problems requiring more extensive and specialised assistance. There is a broad political consensus in Norway to ensure better assistance where people live, at an early stage in the course of a disease. However, as you know, the government disagrees with the way in which the Interaction Reform is to be implemented. We are concerned that the municipalities now get a lot more duties and responsibilities without them being rusted out to receive these patients. If the municipalities are to take more responsibility for mental health, they need at least more professionals. The Minister of Justice referred to increased budgetary resources in the health budget. The right in the budget has proposed a probationary system whereby psychologists are granted the same reimbursement rights as permanent practitioners. We have noticed that the Health Directorate has also recommended that we investigate this, and we hope that the government will follow it up. This may be one of several measures to ensure better access to help in patients’ neighbourhoods, including for this group that the interpellant has raised, namely those that are sometimes criminally unpredictable and mentally ill.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e4024	I would like to thank the Council of State and those who have taken the floor for the commitment on a late evening, and for a good debate. The right looks for the necessary clarifications and legislative changes to be put in place so that the black player game with disclaimers of responsibility between the relevant bodies can soon end. Serious mentally ill people who continue to commit crimes must be followed up more closely so that they do not cause undue harm to individuals or to society. Finally, when it comes to identifying who will be responsible for the reaction and follow-up of mentally ill offenders, whether they become the criminal services, the psychiatry or the municipalities, the necessary resources must also be made available for the economy and professionals. It is then also gratifying to hear that the Council of State was involved in this in its statement, that it is actually set of funds in the current year's budget, and that there will probably be more of it. Because there is no doubt that it is a cost-intensive task to be held responsible for the unencumbered mentally ill people under criminal law. I suspect that the economic challenges have also played a major role in addition to the legal ones when the authorities concerned have tried to shift responsibility for these people to others. With regard to the question raised by the representative, Tove-Lise Torve, the Right considers that a decision must be made first and foremost on who should be responsible for those falling between two chairs. Personally, I guess it's close to pointing out that it must be the specialist health service of the psychiatry that should have a special responsibility for this group, in close cooperation, which the council also had in mind, with the municipalities and Nav. There is a special care provision and follow-up to these people needs, and the specialist healthcare service must take on specific responsibilities. The right has also proposed a new and reinforced quality strategy for healthcare, and we also call for ways to ensure better quality in mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e4037	Then is the last speaker in case No. 17 Councillor Knut Storberget, who also has a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e4044	Point-to-point. First of all, I just want to thank you for a very nice debate. Every time I have such discussions about people who commit criminal acts, there are completely different types of demands that are raised: it is as far away as possible, as far as possible time and under the most brutal conditions. Often it doesn't matter. This has been a worthy and constructive debate on an incredibly important issue for my part. I understand that there are several parties involved in it, and I am pleased about that. As the representative Graham was about, it is about the treatment of people, and the debate has brought it up. I would therefore like, when the proposal is clear from the government, to invite all the parties of the Storting to join in and discuss just the new form of reaction, because I think it needs to be brought together – broader collection than just a majority. For it needs more legitimacy than maybe other kinds of solutions, and accepted so that people understand how difficult it is and also understand why it should be reacted like that. Then we need a broad majority. Only that will be understood, and only that will be effective. That we are serious, is also underlined by the budget, where, for the current year, we have chosen to allocate a total of 12 million. kr to establish a new special reaction. But there's also 3 million. SEK for a limited period of compulsory residence in the specialist health service and 6 million has been allocated. kr for municipal follow-up, and SEK 3 million. kr was granted for pilot cooperation between specialist health services, municipal authorities, police, criminal services and Nav pending the establishment of the scheme. So I think we've taken some important steps, but thanks for useful recordings. I will take them with me both to the Ministry of Justice and also to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e4055	That is when the debate is on case No. Seventeen done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e4069	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 3380]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e4082	Then we should be ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e4231	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 4, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 5, by Gunvor Eldegard on behalf of the Financial Committee. Proposals Nos. 1 to 4 has been included in the setting on page 24, while proposal No. 5 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the right, from the Christian Party, and from the left, says: «The government is asked to propose as soon as possible that the audit thresholds be calculated on a consolidated basis, in order to see the turnover, balance sheet total and the total number of annual works of companies controlled by the same ownership. The purpose is also to exempt small group parent companies from the audit obligation.’;» Proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left, says: «The government is asked to make proposals to ensure that the audit obligation for partnerships with more than five employees and less than five million employees. crowns in turnover shall be cancelled.’;» Proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian Party, and Left, says: ‘The government is asked to carry out a critical review of special certification requirements in order to identify whether the requirements are properly designed and adequately justified in the light of the removal of the auditor’s obligation for small limited liability companies.’;» In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, these proposals will be put on the agenda as a matter of their own at a later meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e4840	A vote shall be taken on the position of the Committee on I, III, IV, VI, VII and VIII.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e4851	Alternatively, the first paragraph of Section 2-3 of Section II of the adjustment is added, new paragraph. 6 and proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Law 13 June 1997 No 44 in the case of limited liability companies is amended as follows: [[share laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e4873	The fourth and fifth subparagraphs of Section 7-6 and the second sentence of Section 2-1 of Section IX shall be deleted. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e4887	It is votered over V § 2-1, fifth paragraph. The party of progress, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e4901	Proposal No. 5, from the Financial Committee, reads: «I, Act No 13 June 1997 No 44 in the case of limited liability companies is amended as follows: [[share laws]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e4971	There is a vote on proposal No. 5 to II § 5-14, second paragraph, no. 2 and new § 7-7, new § 7-8 and new § 7-9.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e4982	The President shall draw attention to the fact that this Decision replaces the proposal for a decision under these paragraphs. There is a vote on proposal No. 5, from the Financial Committee, to V, Section 1-1, third paragraph, second sentence.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e4994	The President shall draw attention to the fact that this Decision replaces the proposal for a decision under this paragraph. The remainder of the Committee's position shall be replaced by II, V and IX.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5006	The remainder of proposal 5 from the Financial Committee is voted on for a new legislative proposal in the Law of 29 June 2007 No. 75 on securities trading [[Investment Trading Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5017	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5027	The legislative decisions will be listed for second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5035	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right, Left Amendment No. 2, from Jørund Rytman on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 2nd from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the government to assess the removal of the audit obligation for smaller foundations and to present the assessment as a matter for the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5059	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: «The Government is asked to make proposals to reduce the retention requirement for accounting material from 10 to 5 years, and to propose amendments to adjacent laws which affect the retention obligation.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5090	In the course of the debate, 16 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 2–16, from Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–16, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The tax ruling requires the government to provide that the taxpayer is automatically sent draft decisions by the tax office in the context of a complaint procedure in order to give taxpayers a reasonable opportunity to comment in writing on the draft tax office.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to assess different models to ensure that tax complaints are given real independence from the tax rate and, where appropriate, to assess a separate professional secretariat for study work.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that practices in tax complaints are changed so that the tax office writes its own case for its own account and that the tax complaint itself writes its own observations and, where appropriate, divergent proposals for decisions on each tax case, without further guidance from the tax office.’; Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to consider proposing the establishment of a special court for tax matters. The assessment shall be presented to the Stortinget.’;» Proposal No. 6 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to amend the rules so that tax requirements where there is substantial and justified doubts about the tax liability cannot be recovered until tax decisions are enforceable.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to propose to amend the rules so that tax is refunded to taxpayers at interest on late payment, not at specific lower rates.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government is asked to complete its efforts to improve cooperation between tax offices and tax collection offices during 2011 and to look at simplifications in reporting procedures between offices.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose to amend the legislation so as to compensate for a small loss to taxable persons who suffer business losses as a result of the errors of the tax authorities’.» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose that taxpayers who win their lawsuit against the tax rate be automatically granted the right to cover the necessary costs, without having to apply for the tax rate afterwards.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The decision asks the Government to assess increased evidence requirements for the tax office’s claim in the event of a discretionary decision.’ Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the legalisation of the cutting-through rule with clear conditions as to when cutting can be used and in which cases cutting can take place.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to step up its efforts to make the tax bill appear to be a tax payer service budget.’ Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to consider proposing to cut off the tax office’s ability to appeal the decision of the tax complaint to the national tax authorities in cases where taxpayers are subject to tax complaint.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to amend the legislation so that binding prior opinions may be reviewed before the courts.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose an opt-out principle in the Equation Act.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5188	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a wide-ranging sample to be set aside for the review of the Equation Treatment in order to strengthen the legal certainty of taxpayers and to present a separate case to the Stortinget. The Committee shall be set up by 1 June 2011 and shall complete its work by 1 January 2012. The individual proposals in this setting belong naturally to such a review.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5219	In the course of the debate, a total of 20 proposals have been put forward, the proposals No. 1–20, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to propose to the Storting that a clear target be set for the banking crisis resolution system to be able to deal with crises also in the main financial institutions in a way that ensures that particularly important banking services are maintained and that owners, management and non-guaranteed creditors have a real risk of loss without the use of public funds.’;» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to the Stortinget to require all Norwegian banks to draw up contingency and crisis plans. [[testament]] Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to make proposals to the Storting to amend the Banking Act so that the action options for when the soft thresholds are considered to be exceeded are more precise.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: «The government is asked to consider introducing new early measures into the Banking Act, such as restrictions on the payment of dividends and share issue requirements.» Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to make proposals to the Storting to amend the Banking Act so that today’s hard-pressed thresholds are set at a higher level of capital than today’. Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to propose to the Storting to amend the Banking Act so that today’s hard thresholds are complemented by hard thresholds for liquidity as well’. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting to expressly empower the crisis resolution authority to split and sell an institution piece by piece, while shareholders and creditors shall not suffer greater losses than they would in the event of immediate liquidation.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose to the Storting that the law introduce the possibility of establishing a bridge bank.’ Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose to the Storting that procedures be established for the accelerated payment of guaranteed deposits in the event of a crisis.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals to the Storting for the establishment of procedures for nationalisation.’ Proposal No. 11 sounds: «The government is asked to propose to the Storting that the crisis resolution authority be given a general access to capitalisation.» Proposal No. 12 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to make proposals to the Storting to amend the Banking Act in order to allow the Banking Insurance Fund to exceed its current minimum requirements.’ Proposal No. 13 sounds: «The government is asked to make proposals to the Storting to amend the Banking Act in order to remove the exemption from the payment of the membership fee when the fund is larger than the minimum requirement.» Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to the Stortinget to amend the Banking Act so that the membership fee reflects the risk of a member drawing bills on the fund.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: «The government is asked to submit proposals to the Stortinget to amend the Banking Act in such a way that the membership fee depends on core capital coverage and loan growth.» Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals to the Stortinget to amend the Banking Act so that foreign branches are treated as closely as possible to Norwegian banks.’ Proposal No. 17 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that banks are already required to publish quantitative information on, inter alia, short-term financing, liquidity buffer and maturity structure’.» Proposal No. 18 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to cooperate with the Nordic countries on the early introduction of the countercyclical buffer for which the Basel Committee is now preparing the details.’ Proposal No. 19 reads: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that banks are subject to higher capital requirements until the Basel Committee’s countercyclical buffer is put in place.’; Proposal No. 20 sounds: «The government is asking the government to cooperate with other countries to introduce a tax on financial services in line with the recommendations of the International Monetary Fund [[IMF]] Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5341	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5349	In the course of the debate, a total of three proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Oskar J. Grimstad on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 2 and 3, from Gunnar Gundersen on behalf of the Right; There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2 and 3 from the right. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘During the spring 2011 session, the government is asked to provide the Stortinget with an evaluation of the pilot project with extended municipal autonomy in 8 selected municipalities in the period 2000-2005.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to propose changes to the law on motor travel in the outland so that municipalities are given increased authority – within national guidelines – and where experience from the pilot project with increased local autonomy is taken into account.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5380	There is a vote on proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals for a new law on motor travel in the field, based on the positive experience gained from the pilot project.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5412	During the debate, Mrs Skei Grande put forward a proposal on behalf of the Left. The proposal is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber and reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to start work on the objective of establishing the Preikestolen National Park.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5439	During the debate, Mr F. Christensen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 June 2002 57 on elections to the Grand Duchy, county councils and local councils are amended as follows: § 8-2 new third paragraph is replaced by the following: Candidates who are on the electoral list at the municipal council election may not be appointed as the voter in the municipality in question. [[optional law]] [[3]] Candidates who are on the list of candidates in the Grand elections or in the county elections may not be appointed as the voter in the counties of the county in question. The current Section 8-2 third paragraph becomes the fourth paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5596	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5606	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5614	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–5, by Gjermund Hageseter on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The 2011 State budget amends as follows: Chapter.PostDestinationCronesExpenditure586Contributions to nursing homes and nursing homes64The investment grant, estimated allocation, is increased by 1,500 000 000 from NOK 1 067 400 000 to 2,567 400 000’» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The size consents to the government’s maximum investment grant amounting to 1.3 million. kroner for nursing homes and NOK 866 600 for nursing homes.» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The budget agrees that, in 2011, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs will be able to provide commitments for investment grants in addition to the investment grants granted to hospital and nursing homes.’;» Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to propose a new scheme of State grants for the operation of hospitalisation sites in force from 1 August 2011 and to present this to the Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget for 2011.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asking the Government to remove the Husbank’s commitment ceilings of 1 000 health homes and 1 000 nursing homes and to replace them with the needs of the municipalities for designated places.’ Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5817	A total of five proposals have been put forward during the debate. That is the proposal No. 1–5, from Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party. In the course of the debate, proposal No. 1 converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘The Government is recommended to promote the necessary proposals to ensure greater transparency in the financing of religious communities, including gifts from abroad.’;» The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any justification. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government is asked to investigate and propose the establishment of a register of all transfers from abroad to religious religious communities in Norway.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals to strengthen the oversight of religious communities in order to distinguish between support for activity in the form of political parties or organisations and religious communities.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make the necessary proposals to prevent political or religious activity in Norway from being financed by capital based on totalitarian Islamist regimes that do not comply with the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a notification to the Great Government, identifying capital based on totalitarian Islamist regimes, and the means by which such capital is or will be developed to prevent political or religious activity in Norway, which is contrary to the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights.’» Alternatively, between these proposals and the Committee's setting up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5869	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to refer the matter to the Storting with the necessary proposals to prevent the granting of residence and work permits to imams associated with totalitarian Islamist regimes, which thus do not respect or practice religious freedom and universal human rights.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5896	A total of eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Geir Jørgen Bekkewold on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 2-8, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left The proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 2 to 4 and points Six to eight from the left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Grand Duchy requests that a human rights analysis of the situation of the undocumented population in Norway be carried out.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a review of conversion access practices to see whether new facts are adequately taken into account.’ Proposal No. 4 reads: ‘The government asks the government to make the necessary changes to the Foreign Affairs Act so that it is clear from the legal text that a refusal of an application must be sound from a child law point of view.’ 6 reads: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that those who live illegally in the country are entitled to health care in addition to emergency care where this is necessary to avoid serious consequences for the person himself or others.’ 7 reads: ‘The government asks the government to give a new instruction to its Nav offices so that requests for emergency assistance under the Social Services Act are handled in a humane way.’ 8 reads: ‘The government asks the government to investigate the possibility of a change in its application for a residence permit under Chapter 3 of the Act for aliens who are in the state of the country of application for protection. [[work immigration]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5947	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 5 from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government further asks the government to specify what falls under the concept of ‘immigration regulatory considerations’.’» The right and Christian People's Party has announced its support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5964	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the Government to assess the case of a permanent residence permit for long-term residents in Norway in the light of the different models used by other European countries.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5991	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e5999	There is a vote on proposals from the Right and the Christian People's Party presented at the Stortinget meeting on 28 March 2011: ‘The government is asked to promote a legislative proposal that regulates the rules of leave also for non-organised workers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-05.ana.ud1918e6022	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
