ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e26	They called the alternates, for Hordaland County Einar Horvei and for Rogaland County Kjell Arvid Svendsen and Terje Halleland, have taken their seats. The representative, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e40	On behalf of Per-Willy Amundsen, Åge Starheim and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to wind up the county council as an independent level of administration.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e45	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e48	On behalf of the representatives Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Vokskesen, Arne Sortevik and myself, I am delighted to make a motion for a representative of 4 billion. extra in the immediate allocation of maintenance measures on the road network.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e53	The representative of Svein Harberg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e56	On behalf of the representatives of Elisabeth Aspaker, Henning Warloe and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative to review the basis for the calculation of subsidies for incubators.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e61	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e73	The Stortinget received on Monday a message from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen, Knut Storberget and Ola Borten Moe will meet for oral Question Time. The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e80	I have a question for the Minister of Justice. In recent times, we have been given an increased focus on the increasing number of brutal assaults that have occurred. The problem is that this happens all year round, it happens on an increasing scale, and it is innocent women who are essentially victims of that type of crime. What's good is that we're now getting focus on what we can do to prevent that from happening. So far, we've seen the Minister of Justice do one thing, and that's going away at night. Let me just underline: walking at night is affordable. It is commendable that citizens of this society set up their leisure time and contribute to making society safer. But the country's Minister of Justice should have a little more ambition than that. His ambitions should be to help dimension our police so that it is able to combat all crime, which unfortunately we see growing in Norway. The question then arises when the Minister of Justice and the Government intend to take the necessary steps to get more policemen out in the streets. I assume that the Minister of Justice agrees with me that one of the most important things we can do is to have visible police, because a visible police is involved in preventing, helping prevent, preventing crime from happening. So one is getting more visible police. The second thing is that we have to make sure that all the police students who are now finishing their education get a job when they leave school. The third must be to have an ambition that all the police officers who are approaching retirement age — and it is low in the police — will have an opportunity to continue in the police if it is desired, rather than that we may lose competence, and that it will go into private business instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e95	I fully agree with the representative Jensen that combating rape is absolutely vital to us. It creates an unusual amount of insecurity. I have to say that both what has happened in Oslo, and also the waves we have had in Stavanger and elsewhere, have shown that it is fully possible to put in place measures to limit this kind of behaviour. Then I'd like to start by saying that at the same time as five assaults were committed in Oslo, you might have between 10 and 30 rapes that happen at home with people in the same city. And it happens continuously. That's why I think it's important that we strengthen the police, not just because you're supposed to have visible police in the streets, but that we also have the police who can intervene against the crime that affects women and children at home. That's why you have to have more thoughts in your head at once when you meet this challenge. And it's not that the Minister of Justice has just gone away at night, here we have put in a lot of measures. Let me mention someone: first, it's absolutely crucial to get to the bottom of who's the attack offender in these cases, that we've implemented the big DNA reform. There has been a vital and important tool for the police to intervene and get access to the perpetrator. It is also interesting, in my opinion, to see that in the last six years, when we have been in government, we have actually trained 1,600 more policemen than when the Progress Party was in and budgeted with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left – 1,600 more policemen trained must be an important tool. We see the results of that police operation in today's VG, where it's described that the burglaries are dropping, 65 pst. a fall in profitability, which is also a very serious type of crime. This shows that the government's bet works.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e104	I think the Stortinges agree that it is good that every year we are able to train more policemen than we did the year before. The ambition must be not just that we get them educated, but that we get them to work. That's why I want to ask the Minister of Justice to make such a guarantee, that all those who are now leaving the Police College get a job offer, so that they can help fight the rise of crime in our society. Then I agree that we must have more thoughts in our head at once in terms of combating crime. But the main idea must nevertheless be more policemen who fight crime. Then it won't help if the Minister of Justice won't make sure that those who then take the education in line with Stortinget's signals don't get a job. So that guarantee should be able to be made by the Minister of Justice. So I would like an answer to what the government is doing to try to help those who have 10–20–30 years of experience in the police can continue to use their experience there rather than being retired at the age of 57 and then go into private business.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e113	Let there be no doubt that I agree with Jensen's representative that when we now train 1,600 more policemen than the Advance Party and the civilians did in the last period, it would be pointless if we trained them for unemployment. But I think there must be some demands before you get to work. Two of them are: firstly, I believe that the law school students must pass the exam before they get a job out in police Norway. The second is that you also have to figure out how to search in a somewhat wider area than Oslo and Akershus, because when we train as many as we do now, with a 720-record, we train policemen for the whole country. That's why it's good news that over 93 pst. Of those who went out last year, now are in police work. It shows that the government's bet on this, and that you've put money in the budgets to meet the big coals that come out, is actually the best guarantee that these guys get a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e120	Four follow-up questions are raised – first the representative Åse Michaelsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e123	This is not just about resources, police and nightfall. This is not least about changes in attitudes. Statstik says a lot. And we know that there is a reprehensible view of women in some non-Western groupings. These often view Norwegian and Western women as whores. These environments need clear leaders who say what's right and wrong, and not, as we've seen lately, some doctors who are out and believe that women themselves have a responsibility when they get raped. I do not accept that our women must wear extra strong pantyhose to prevent them from being torn off quickly, or that our women should not be allowed to wear a lightweight summer dress, or that they should dress in some sort of mountain to be considered virtuous. Actually, I don't accept that. So what will the Council of State do to prevent such anti-female attitudes from developing in these environments?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e132	Let me also express my agreement with representative Michaelsen that it would be an accident to create more security in Norway about the effort against rape and assault was generally thrown over to the victims, and that it is those who are responsible both for where they are going, how they are going to move from one place to another, what kind of dress suits they are going to wear, and for what kind of behaviour they are going to behave. I believe that the main effort to limit assaults must be directed at men. This applies not only to what is happening on the street, but also to the large number of rapes in Norway that are actually committed against women in Norwegian homes. There, we do not see any clear excess of foreign nationals. On the contrary, we see that the North is the figure. So my opinion is that action needs to be taken in relation to men's attitudes, and we also need to take action to do something preventively, for example. The European Union is the world's leading partner in the fight against racism and xenophobia.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e139	I think it's very good that we have a government council that has several thoughts in its head at once and has a great commitment to those questions. It's a huge problem that needs to be solved on a wide front. We owe it to people. But sometimes the Council of State has a little too many thoughts in its head at once and forgets the very basic thing: that visible and sufficient police actually prevent crime and assaults. I'm standing here with VG from October 13, 2009. It says that according to the Ministry of Justice's own calculations, a double police force will be added in the big cities during the weekends. Has the police force been doubled during the weekends in Oslo and Bergen since this lookup came?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e146	Now I am more excited about today's VG than about VG from 2009. VG writes today that the police are in the process of succeeding in their efforts against crime in general. We're gonna be happy for that. It's not just because you have established more visible police on weekends – if it's doubled, I'm getting back to, I haven't counted today. But it is quite obvious that in the effort, for example. against assault on women, rape — both at home and in the streets — we depend on being able to have a police force that does not just go out in the streets. It's quite obvious. Once the organised capital crime has fallen, it is largely due to the fact that we have managed to cooperate across the police district borders and implement measures that we do not see with the naked eye when we go out on the street. The fact that profit crime drops by 65 pst. is about many kinds of measures. I am pleased that the government's commitment, especially in terms of working time regulations – that an extra hour has been given to the police force – has helped us to fill up the weekends.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e154	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e157	I'm glad that the Council of State has a focus on prevention and attitudes, because there's some of the key to getting rid of assault violence. One of the important issues that the Christian People's Party has been concerned with in terms of preventing and also releasing more resources to the police is to reduce the turnout time from 3 p.m. to 02 p.m. There's no point in using the Christian People's Party's own arguments, because there's been such a good argument on the part of the Council of State. That's why I'm going to quote him from this room two years ago: ‘And when we have such an obvious opportunity to remove very expensive hours for Norwegian police, both in kroner and also in terms of overtime and working time regulations, I believe that there should be a great deal of pressure on it.’ [[...]] And on the other hand, ‘To illustrate: a police officer who spends his or her working hours between hours. 03 and 04 nights to Sunday in Rosenkrantz' street, might have used five hours in the day to reveal more violence in close relationships.» I believe the Council of State is in on some of the key here. So my question is, does the Council of State still agree with itself, or has he turned the argument and the question?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e174	This is one of my best quotes! And I'm standing 100 pst. inside it. I mean it with all my heart. The cities of Norway that have now experienced a decline in violent crime have just chosen to put in place an active, preventive policy, and, in particular, action against drug trafficking. We cannot deny that both victims and perpetrators of serious violent crime in Norway, are very much and very often affected by alcohol, and this happens in connection with gift points. So if we're really going to create more visible police and more police resources, it's important that the municipalities do this. There are instruments in the alcohol law that give municipalities access to this, and my great appeal, especially to local politicians in Oslo, is to seize this right now, giving the police more resources and time to conduct more investigations in the daytime, but at the same time creating a safer city. Then the government has a job going on to look at the possibilities of making changes to the alcohol law, as we've said we're going to come back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e181	The representative, Trine Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e184	I would first like to say that I am somewhat disappointed that the Minister of Justice did not find it right to point out to the Progress Party that rapes are done by individuals, not by cultures or by religions. But that's not my main question. My main question is that rape and that kind of assault are a special type of crime. It's a kind of crime like that. requires a specific type of evidence collection. Doctors are primarily taught to heal and help people, not necessarily to take up evidence. In Oslo, we have a good unit to take evidence. I think if you get a rape victim here, you have an opportunity to collect evidence in a good way. In the rape committee, a separate police unit was proposed to investigate the type of offence, because it is a special type that requires special competence. It has not been chosen by the Council of State to follow up. The left would have had such a separate unit. Why doesn't the Council of State say yes to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e191	We have chosen to follow it up, but we have not chosen to establish a separate independent entity as a separate special body. So we have chosen to set up a department in Kripos, a criminal police department, to deal with it and to be both an advisory group and an amplification group in moral matters, and that is now up and running. There are eight posts in that department in Kripos. We believe it is right that it is located in Kripos and can draw experience from other parts of the work to Kripos. It shall be extended this year by four new posts. Then I fully agree with the representative of Skei Grande that it is absolutely essential that we improve the evidence situation. That's the background for us choosing to introduce the DNA reform. It is one of the most important measures to identify perpetrators, and many of the rape cases have been clarified because the government chose to introduce the DNA reform. Then I want to point to another tool as well, and it's the rape recipients, where you now have investigation boxes. You can take photos, secure clothes, and secure samples, which are very valuable to the Norwegian police when investigating.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e200	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e203	I record that the State Council of Storberget will not discuss assault violence, and is not particularly interested in discussing concrete staffing figures. So he comes with alcohol as the big thing, which is one of his biggest political defeats in this government compared to imposing something on the municipalities that he spent five years arguing for. I find that interesting in relation to the first question from the Progress Party. So I'm going to go back to the previous question about assault rape. The lack of visible police in Oslo has an impact on the prevention of rape, not only but also on other measures. Police station chief Kåre Stolen said on TV a few days ago that the number of patrol officers in Oslo is significantly lower than last year. He assumed that the need in Oslo Center alone is over 350 more policemen, and the situation is that there are 100 fewer officials in charge in Oslo today than it was just two years ago. In the past, the Oslo City Council has shown how, in the absence of sufficient State efforts, they create safe communities by hiring in instrumentation along the most heavily burdened areas of the city. So the drug turnover has been reduced and the safety has been improved. The City Council has now challenged the Council of State to accept money from the Municipality of Oslo in order to create more security in Oslo City. To date, this request has remained unanswered. So my question to the Council of State, for example. to prevent several rapes, is: Why will the Council of State not support the Oslo municipality's proposal to allow the municipality to contribute to the financing of the Oslo municipality police so that we can ensure better security for its citizens than today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e212	I think you should listen at night when the Right asks questions about the number of policemen. No matter how much you twist and turn on the number of police officers out in the police districts, there's one key question, and that's: how many police officers we get out in the streets depends on how many we train. And that's where the government that I'm taking part in took hold of the fact that over the years we've been sitting, we've trained 1,600 more policemen than what the Right did when they put in government. So you really should listen to the representative Oktay Dahl when he detects too little policemen, because at least you shouldn't do what you did under the previous government. And it's clear that when you had police college admissions of 240 students – well, at the lowest level under the Right-Handed Government, it didn't exactly help to get the number of policemen up in Norway. So now we have a recording of 720 students – that's right-wing support in Stortinget – and that's what's going to give more police force in Norway. And when the City Council in Oslo, right-hander, now calls for more policemen and is willing to pay for police services, yes, I'm meeting the enquiry from the City Council in Oslo. Then we're going to deal with it in the Department of Justice to the extent that you want to grant money to the police. But it's not that the City Council in Oslo suddenly has many more police posts when some and ninety percent of the students from the Police College actually now have a job in the police. The number of policemen in Norway depends on how many we train. Then I also want to point out, as I did instead – we also have to have different thoughts in our heads than just how much police patrols in the streets.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e217	Every one of those 1,600 we've been supporting here in Stortinget. So the government has refused our offer, from a very good overall opposition, to have an obliging escalating plan to get an employee. It's not just about training, but it's also about hiring. There the government has been passive. In nine out of ten budgets, the Right has proposed greater appropriations. Now I feel like there's going to be such nursery facilities here, so I think we should go back to that question about: why is the Council of State fundamentally opposed to the fact that the Municipality of Oslo will co-finance security in its own city? In fact, the Council of State should be pleased to receive support from a city council that wants something with this city, which will have security for women who go insecure on the streets and not dare to go into parts of the city. It might be okay if he starts to answer questions rather than bring these files with him for five to six years. No matter how many times the Council of State makes claims about the Right, it doesn't make it any more true.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e222	It has to be interesting how many we're training. It must be interesting how many of them get a job when assessing the number of police officers in Norway. So I feel a significant need to tell you how the situation is there. When the government in the last year's government decided to grant money to hire the new ones, I'm glad you did it. With regard to the money offered – via the media – from the Municipality of Oslo, I have said that we will attend to this enquiry and handle it. But it is clear that if it is based on a hope that there will suddenly be many more policemen in Norway, and once we have employed all the coal from the Police College, you have to start taking away from other police districts, and then I would assume that the Right's local parties in other cities and towns would react.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e230	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first Anders B. Werp.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e233	The councils came with a good news – he said himself – that 92 pst. Of last year's police students are at work. So 8 pst. are not in work. A quick calculation suggests that there are more than 30 fully trained policemen standing without a job almost one year after they left the Police College. My question to the Council of State is: now that we are getting to say daily that there is a great need for more policemen in the big cities, especially Oslo, will the Council of State take its own initiative to strengthen the manpower of the big cities? There is a staff resource with competent, motivated and newly trained students who still do not have a job.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e240	We've taken that initiative. This can be seen, inter alia, in: by the police directorate’s website, policejob.no, where you can go in and see how many vacancies there are for policemen in Norway. As far as I recall, there were 194 job vacancies now in the transition to April. It invites the last 30 of the police high school students who say they are not working, to go into these websites and find vacancies that you can actually apply for. But I stress that when we train as many policemen as we do, we do it for all of Norway. This is also why people are encouraged to apply for jobs throughout Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e247	Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e250	I think the State Council of Storberget should be able to use this visit to Stortinget to be more clear on the kind of local invitation that has come here from the City Council of Oslo. The Group of the Progressive Party feels that there is a great desire in several places in the country to be involved and contribute to better police services locally, precisely because the police do not deliver what they are set to do. The council has said that 93 pst. of the newly educated have received a job. He didn't say they got a job in the police. We know that the Municipality of Oslo is free to go out and buy weights, but they cannot contribute to increased police services financially here in the city. Does the Council of State think it is a paradox that newly educated policemen can be employed as guardians, but not as policemen?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e257	Every time I answer something about the high school police, I get back that these are just numbers, and we have to get another kind of debate, but the question is still about the high school police. I just have to repeat: approximately 93 pst. Of those who went out last year, working in the police department, of course, that's what we have counted. And point 2: In the case of the 30s who may not have got a job, we cannot rule out that someone has found other jobs. There is no obligation to apply for a job in the police department. But I am very happy that so many have actually taken on a job in the police department. When it comes to the play from the City Council, I've registered it in the media. But of course, we have to deal with it properly in the Ministry of Justice. I welcome the City Councillor's outline of how this money should be used, and how much money it is. We're willing to sit down and discuss it. But I also stress that it would be important that the City Council in Oslo now grasped the preventive elements and did something, for example. to give up, where you have the opportunity to reduce violent crime significantly if you want to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e264	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e267	First, I have to say that I am pleased with the previous answer from the Council of State, that we fully agree that it is also important to think about alcohol policy and prevention here. Then I expect the Council of State to use the authority he has, to give the municipalities a smaller frame of reference – from today’s time. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd. When you're in this kind of debate, as the Council of State has said, there's a lot of polemics about numbers. I want to look at the examples that work. It is known that in Stavanger there were an incredible number of assaults, especially in 2008 and 2009. In 2009, 23 were notified, and it was highest in the country. In 2010, there was zero, because the police worked actively with prevention and attitudes. They strengthened the section on violence and morality, they strengthened cooperation with the municipality, they deployed more people, among others. And they worked actively with attitudes in immigrant environments. This is a good example, which should also have been done in Oslo. Isn't there something the Council of State should actively make sure is done in Oslo?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e274	The answer is yes. The experiences we had from Stavanger are very good. You just zeroed out the rape rates. Of course, violence in close relationships and with other forms of street violence is also rife, but it shows how important it is that the effort, and the debate on the effort, concentrate on something more than counting the number of policemen. For the measures taken in Stavanger, there were broad, and they activated many environments. The government has taken initiatives, including: to the Oslo Police District, in order to establish an overall strategy against rape. And as far as I know – it is also described in the budget paper last year – it will come by 1 June. When it comes to the question of donation, I can promise the representative that I will work actively on it, including at a central level. I also hope the municipalities will do that. I can comfort the representative with the ‘I’m your man’! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e283	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e286	I'm also going to talk about security, but a slightly different kind of security, that's the security the people need by knowing that you have a satisfactory hospital offer. So my question goes to the Minister of Health. We are all familiar with – in a little different ways, if I have to say it like this – the struggle that is going on between the Workers' Party and the Center Party in relation to different local hospitals, the last in Sogn and Fjordane. We might have got a new highlight yesterday, when the newly elected Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory and Constitution Committee of Storting, Per Olaf Lundtegen, said right on the evening news that the government has a secret plan to shut down Kongsberg Hospital, or other local hospitals for that matter. My question is simply: does the government have such a secret plan – or an open plan – or does the representative Lundtegigen speak falsely?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e296	The government has no secret plan. The government has been very clear in the government statement that we are going to keep all the local hospitals we have and that the local hospitals have an important function. But it's also the case that we have a medical-technological development that is moving very towards specialization. That doesn't mean we don't need the local hospitals. We have. We need local hospitals both for food and acute, for inpatient emergency preparedness, for many different functions, and these are different for different places in Norway. What is most important now is that, in the context of the cooperation reform, we also look at how to better manage to care for the large patient groups that have not received sufficient help today. It's for chroniclers, it's for those with diabetes and coals, it's for Ruspacents, it's for those with mental health challenges, and it's for those with musculoskeletal disorders; all of these groups we want to offer a better deal. And part of the transformation that is taking place in local hospitals must also be done to better care for these groups. So the government is very concerned that we're going to have the local hospitals, also with food and acute, even though these functions are not on all local hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e305	Then I realize that the Council of State rejects the fact that there is anything in the representative Lundtägen said on Evening News yesterday. So it's clear. I'm not exactly going to ask the Council of State to diagnose the relationship between the Center Party and the Workers' Party in these kinds of cases, but the point is that there is a great deal of uncertainty and uncertainty in the population about what is actually the government's policy, and what is the government's actual plans. The Christian People's Party has wanted us to have a national hospital plan, that we should say something about what a local hospital should actually contain. The government has been very vigilant about that. So my question is, can we now expect that until we know what a local hospital should contain, we can put an end to all these rumors about closures and conversions, which the nation's population doesn't need to hear?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e314	I fully agree that we should provide security to the people. And we're going to make sure that we don't wind up the local hospitals we have. We're going to keep them, and we're going to strengthen them to take care of the large patient groups, for example. older people – which I did not mention in my place, but which is a group it is very important to take care of in the future, because there are more older people, and they will have more complex disorders. So we're going to keep the local hospitals we have. In the case of a national hospital plan, we have just produced three documents that have been sent to Stortinget. There are two new laws, the Public Health Act and the new Municipal Health and Care Services Act, and that is the National Health and Care Plan. In the national health and care plan, in the chapter on specialist health care, we have also described what the government proposes that a local hospital should contain at least. And then it's actually a reality that local hospitals have different content in different parts of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e323	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first Filip Rygg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e326	In the Council's replies, reference is made to the health and care plan, where very few pages say something about hospitals. The council also says in the answer that local hospitals are not shut down. The challenge, which creates insecurity, is that you don't know what these local hospitals should contain. Is it so that all local hospitals can now fear that functions are taken from them, or have we come there that we can calm down Hospital-Norway and say that there will be no further changes? We have not received a comprehensive plan for the hospitals, we have received a few aspects of the health and care plan. Then there is reason to question whether there is any reason to be safe for the vital functions of today’s local hospital.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e333	In Norway, we have one of the world's best health services, and the population should be sure that when they get sick, they will get the help they need at the hospital where they can provide the best help. It doesn't necessarily mean in the nearest hospital, it probably doesn't mean in the hospital that's a little away, but maybe in the hospital that's far away. And so it's not the patient who first decides what diagnosis you have when you're going to hospital, it's the doctor who does. Ambulance staff – also with the AMK centre – have to decide where to install. The score should be: the patient should receive the best treatment. It is also the case that recent changes – especially mentioning hospitals in the West – have caused the birth and maternity message addressed by the Stortinget, and the Stortinget agreed to a proposal to establish regional plans for maternity care in Norway. It's done. The Health Directorate has developed quality criteria for this, and that is the result.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e340	Per Arne Olsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e343	Let me first express my appreciation that the Council of States is responding calmly and in control, and not – as the Council of Ministers of Navarsete – with anger, or commitment as it is now called. I'm used to the fact that the usual answer from the Council of State in the case of local hospitalisation is that that's not what's going on. Then I feel that both the representative Lundtigen and other central party members travel around the country and the beach and give the impression that they disagree with this decision. My question is whether this is a unanimous decision by the government, whether it has been taken by this government, and how the Council of State feels when the Central Party travels around the country and the beach and gives the impression that they disagree with the Council of State – if they have not taken this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e352	I have no habit of referring from the government's internal discussions. However, I can assure you that the policy set out in the Soria Moria Declaration, the policy that is embodied in the Cooperation Reform in the new National Health Plan, and the one that is in the two laws that are important for Health-Norway in the future, are the policies that are now government policy and that are transmitted to the United Kingdom for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e357	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e360	I record that the representative Lundtigen has been accused of having bad manners. I believe that bad manners are also tricking people, and yesterday when I heard Lundtegen, it was the melody "I'm tired of being tricked" that went through my head over and over again. If you listen to the Minister of Health today – and know what the definition of a hospital is – the answer is without content. As long as there's one medical specialist and one bed left in a building, there's a hospital by today's definition. Obviously, people feel cheated whenever changes happen. There is also a majority in this room — consisting of all the opposition parties, the Centre Party and the SV — who believe that the national health plan should include a policy-based definition of the content of the different types of hospitals. This is a government that has a majority in the United Kingdom, but it is the majority that has a government, and that means that there is now a majority in the United Kingdom that believes this. Will the Minister of Health deal with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e368	As far as the National Hospital Plan is concerned, we have said that we should come to the Stortinget and inform more about the specialist health service than we have done, and invite the Stortinget to that kind of debate, because I think that's important. So it's a fact that many things change, and many things change quickly. I want to come back with the example of heart fibrillation treatment, where you suddenly get a big queue, and where you suddenly have to start building up capacity almost overnight in order to take care of many patients who don't have the good of waiting too long. It just means that there are major changes in the specialist health service, and the way we have set up the specialist health service, the Minister of Health obviously has a great and overall responsibility. However, regional health businesses, together with local health businesses, are responsible for both policy implementation and responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e377	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e380	There have been many regimes up through history, the last thing we remember is 'Comic Ali' who said that Baghdad held, sail if it was bombed. The problem with the entire hospital debate is that very many citizens in this country feel that the government isn't telling the truth. Yes, sail magnification representatives from the government parties feel that you are not speaking the truth. Sometimes you have to leave, sometimes you have to leave, sometimes it's about giving good job offers. But the problem in this case is that people feel that you don't talk right, that later on, as if Baghdad still stands there, sail if you've done important functions. You feel that what is security, which is an important part of our health policy, is taken from people. I have to say that I have a lot more respect for politicians who stand for what you do, who really fight, but who stand for the decisions you make. Now we see politicians who, when you lose, are angry at those who fight. Why aren't you telling the truth?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e389	In fact, I do not understand that the representative Skei Grande is talking to me. I'm telling the truth. I'm telling you about the government's health policy as it is. We have written the framework for it in the Soria Moria Declaration. There we say very clearly that we are going to keep the local hospitals we have. We're saying that they can have other problems than today, precisely on the basis of function distribution. To put it this way: I think I've been enough in the media lately, to show that I've actually been serious about the changes that have been made. The changes that have been made have, with regard to the plans for birth and childbirth, been largely initiated after the treatment in Stortinget. I'm very busy just talking true, because it's important that everyone gets the message that if you get sick, you're being treated in that hospital that can give you the best help. It's important, and it's important for us when we get sick that we have the security for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e394	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e397	Yesterday we could read in the media that there will be winter prices on electricity throughout the year. So it's the phase after 51⁄2 years of red-green energy policy. I'm not surprised at this, because we've always heard in the climate debates from the red-greens that we need higher energy prices to cut CO2 emissions. Not least SV has been very clear when they have stated correctly in debates that the parties want higher power prices. But – unfortunately – the bill for this policy goes straight to people most and to Norwegian business. In the VG, over the red-green period of government, one has been able to see several times the lo-leader Roar Flåthen race against this. As late as March 30, 2011, the government will be given a strength for the energy policy of Roar Flåthen. But as early as April 2006, Roar Flöthen saw how this went, and threatened with a power crisis and a government crisis against the then Odd Roger Enoxsen if the government did not change its policy. Unfortunately, they have stuck to it. But now they've got a new Minister of Energy, and that gives reason to rejoice. I have great expectations for the new Minister of Energy. I would like to welcome him to the government and welcome him to the Stortinges Question Time, because as a big-time representative, Ola Borten Moe had very clear and clear solutions to the power challenges we saw then, and as we see now. Already in the VG on 3 April 2006, he said we should have a policy that makes Norway self-sufficient in cheap electricity. We should build gas power plants and hydropower plants. That's exciting, because once the Progress Party has taken up the same solutions, we've been shut down to be climate hostile. But this isn't just a distant story. As late as last September 15th, the representative Borten Moe ordered to build gas power plants, expand more hydropower, delegate more responsibility to local municipalities and use the mobile gas power plants. When can we expect these clear words to become government policy in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e411	Since it is the first time that the Council of State Ola Borten Moe meets for oral Question Time, the President uses the opportunity to wish for good cooperation with the Stortinget, now in a new position, and looks forward to replies from the Council of State Ola Borten Moe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e414	Thank you for that, and thank you for the welcome greetings also from Solvik-Olsen. It was nice. It was nice of you to be here, too. I feared to be unemployed today, but it went well. I think I'm starting with today's energy situation, where Solvik-Olsen says that the situation we are experiencing today is a result of 51⁄2 years of red-green energy policy. It's a positive error, I think Solvik-Olsen knows that too. In fact, we control many of the variables in the Norwegian power system, but we don't control the amount of rainfall over time and temperatures. We are in an extraordinary situation where there has been little rain in Norway. There has been little swindling in Norway in the last two years, and it has been combined with a lot of cold, which in turn leads to a lot of consumption. That's logic. I think everyone agrees. I also think everyone agrees that our hydropower-based system is largely a great blessing to the country, but when it rains little, and we spend a lot, it offers challenges. Our job is to make sure that the opportunities and opportunities for the kind of challenges we are now facing will be reduced in the future – i.e. a more robust power supply system. We follow three main strategies to achieve that goal. It's increased production. We run about 1 TWh every year with new production on the grid, divided by wind, water and other energy carriers. We have started a great deal of work upgrading the Norwegian central network. We need to invest 40 billion. kr over the next 10 years. It's a big boost. We discussed it last night. Then the paradox was that the opposition, including the Advance Party, was very sceptical about increasing network deployment in practice. You like it in theory, but you're not sure about it in practice. The last is energy efficiency improvement. The goal is, of course, that we should be self-sufficient and well protected to meet the requirements that we as a society are going to make for a safe and secure energy supply in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e427	I record that the Council of State did not address any of the policy challenges that he, as a representative, so actively addressed, should be implemented. He ignores that as a government council, and I want to give him a new chance to comment on it. As for what he says, I think it is also important for an energy minister to remember that there is no news that rainfall varies. If that's the way you think about it here, that we can't guarantee ourselves against this in the future either by having higher production capacity available, because the rainfall will still give high electricity prices, I think it's a failure statement. We have to remember that last March the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom said in Question Time that the power market is regulated by politicians. So one cannot blame for a diffuse market when it is the politicians who rule the most, and that is the point. The government's policy has led, therefore, has not been enough to have a stable energy supply in the country. That's where we have to be able to do more, and that's where the solutions that representative Borten Moe took up were broader than the government has led. Now I feel that it narrows in again, and I hope that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e436	I think we should stick to the target. The goal is to be self-sufficient. The aim is to have a stable and stable power supply that provides predictability for both manufacturers, power-intensive industries and consumers. So I think we have to acknowledge that in a water system like ours, this could vary somewhat in relation to precipitation conditions and temperatures. It is not a declaration of failure, it is simply a law of nature. You can almost get the impression that I could have decided that we should have increased hydropower production in Norway. Well, we have a majority government, but that kind of decision is challenging, even in this room. So it's like yes, we're going to bet more on hydropower. We're now implementing green certificates. We've doubled the concession rate in NVE. We are making every effort to increase hydropower production in Norway in the future. We're doing the same thing in the wind. We're for gas power plants, but we want clean-up from day one. An active incentive for energy support is provided. We do not want to overthrow any energy supply in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e445	Three follow-up questions will be raised – first by the representative Henning Skumsvoll.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e449	On 9 March 2009, Federal Head of State Leif Sande said to Evening Post that the plans for six new foreign tables had to be put on ice. He received support for this from the big business representative Borten Moe. At the Norwegian Wind Energy Association's national meeting on 30 March 2011, State Councillor Borten Moe confirmed that he is still opposed to foreignables. Yesterday, Europower could quote Statnet as it is approaching a new power link between Norway and England of a total of 1,400 megawatts, corresponding to three and a half gas plants. State Secretary Eli Blakstad confirmed at a seminar in Vienna last week that several foreign tables were needed. What is the government's policy regarding the construction of several foreign tables?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e460	All of them first: I understand very well that I am being asked questions related to foreign tables, and we also had a round on it in the hall yesterday. The main point is that we have to be open that this is not a either-or-question. I have not been appointed as State Council, nor at Norwea's annual meeting, to order that we do not have foreign relations. I've suggested that we know what we're doing, that we're going to be careful, that it's not like you're either too absolute all the foreign tables, or that you're against everyone. The extraterrestrials are part of Norwegian security of supply, but there are effects on them that make us know what we're doing before we build them. In the case of the planned cable to England, it corresponds to 3,3 gas power stations. We will have ample opportunity to debate both the general principle and not least how we will deal with this specific matter when we get there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e469	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e472	During a debate in this Chamber yesterday, State Councillor Borten Moe used the opportunity to disagree with the representative of the Board of Governors Borten Moe. The Council of State does not think that the proposal of the local government representative to cut the power cables abroad is a good idea, and that is good. But Borten Moe called for far more than just cutting the cables to the rest of the world: the closure of today's energy law, the closure of Norpool and a common Nordic electricity market, yes to the construction of new gas power plants without cleaning, that the power market the Council of State is responsible for in Norway, is'morally reprehensible', to mention something. It's good people to tell you that you change your mind, and we can read people's manners in today's Evening Post that the Council of State is concerned about. My question is therefore: Subject to the time remaining, can the Council of State explain in which areas, other than cable policy, he now disagrees with the Brenten Moe?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e479	It was simply a long rule. I think we'll start with what I think is an important role clarification. When I now meet the representative of Astrup and the rest of the Stortinget, I do it by being the Council of State, that is, a representative of the government. My job is to defend the government's policy, which is enshrined in the Soria Moria Declaration. There is an interaction between the three party programmes and the mandate given to the government through legal elections. Then I think it is simply the representative Astrup's job – if he wants to spend time on it – to try to find any divergent perceptions between what I must have said as a magnificence representative, and the policy I now stand for as a Council of State, as a member of this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e486	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e489	On Monday Eurostat presented an overview of the evolution of energy consumption in Europe. All 27 EU countries, except Malta, are increasing their renewable share over the period 1999–2009. Among these are Sweden and Denmark, where the use of oil and gas has also fallen. Norway, on the other hand, is increasing its use of fossil energy strongly, and the share of renewable energy has fallen from 44,4 pst. to 42.4 pst. during this period. Norway’s oil use has increased by almost 5 pst. My question to the Council of State is: In view of these figures, does the Minister of Oil and Energy still believe that Norway should negotiate Norway's renewable share in the Renewable Directive and is the Council satisfied that Norway is the only country in the EEA where the share of renewable energy goes down?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e496	Norway has major ambitions on behalf of renewable energy production. We are among the countries in Europe with the highest renewable shares — if not the highest. We're going in the front row in a lot of areas. Government policy in this area is very offensive and ambitious. We are now negotiating with the EU on the implementation of the renewable directive. There we are likely to get one of the absolute highest renewable shares across Europe. The figures on which I am sitting do not indicate that the renewable share in Norway is declining, but on the contrary, on the move up, so it is possible that there is a need for a slight interconnection of figures. With that reservation, my answer is that there is a field on which we are ambitious, and on which we want to continue to be ambitious in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e505	We go to the next and last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e508	My question goes to the Minister of Health. People who need assistance want to live their lives, work and participate in society and have family. For many of them, the personal assistant is the guarantee of an independent life. If you need assistance, many today will experience that the municipality determines not only how many hours you will have, but also who will provide you with the assistance, when the assistance is to be given and in detail what the assistance is to be used for. You and your family are totally dependent on strangers who go in and out of your everyday life, based on what the municipality thinks is best. It's called care. Right Inge Wage has said that the worst thing you can do to another person is take away that independence and call it care. If you have a personal assistant, the municipality will still determine how many hours of assistance you will receive, but your life will decide for yourself – who will provide you with assistance, what you need to have assistance for, and when you want help. Therefore, there are very many disabled people who today want user-driven personal assistance, but are denied this by their municipality. It doesn't fit completely into the municipal system. That was the reason why the Government of Bondevik II proposed in the 2006 State Budget a rights attachment to user-driven personal assistance. The government of Stoltenberg II recruited the government offices before starting the sabotage of this right-holding, a training that has now taken place for six years. Last Friday, a new response came from the Council of State. The new municipal health and care law continues to leave the municipalities to decide on everyday life for people with a need for assistance – no right to user-led personal assistant. I would like to hear from the Minister of Health's own mouth: what is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e525	I very much agree with the representative, Höie, that user-driven personal assistant is a good arrangement for a lot of disabled people. We see that in everyday life, and it's not hard to understand. In the Soria Moria I and Soria Moria II declarations, we have said that we should expand and improve the scheme. So have we. We have significantly expanded the scheme, so that there are far more people who receive this kind of assistance today than before. We have improved the scheme by providing better grants to municipalities, in the form that they can provide guidance and training. We also plan to continue this, of course, as we have said in the Soria Moria statement. With regard to the content of the documents relating to the Interaction Reform, the municipality has continued to have an obligation to offer user-led personal assistant. In addition, the Patient Rights Act strongly emphasises that users should play a major role in the design of their services. That's what's in the law. We'll work on that. Then, too, at the National Labour Party meeting, a decision was made that, within the framework already assigned to the municipalities, it should be a right for the individual user to take it out in the form of user-led personal assistance. This was the case for users with high needs. It is clear that I will follow up on that too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e537	What was presented on Friday does not imply any change in relation to today's situation. On the contrary, this implies a weakening. The fact that the municipality has an obligation does not mean that the user has a right. Experience in this area suggests that this is not going to be a scheme for anyone who wants it, until the user is given a right. I see that the Minister of Health has used financial arguments against a right-wing ceremony. Then it might be interesting for the Storting to know what efforts the government has made over the course of these six years to figure out the economic consequences of a law enforcement of user-led personal assistance. Because as early as 2005, Health Minister Brustad said she would look at this, and she repeated the promise. The current Minister for Health has said that we should look at the issues of principle and practice. What specific professional investigations into the legalisation of user-led personal assistance have been carried out during this government during the last six years?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e544	As I have said, we have behaved to expand and improve this system. We've also followed that up. We'll do further investigations now in relation to rights fixing. In the case of the decision made, as I said, at the national meeting of the Workers' Party, there is a right-holding within the framework of today's needs. So we'll look at this in a wider perspective. Among other things, we have see some municipalities in Norway, and it is not possible to hide that municipalities have different offers and different levels of this. What's hard about it is setting the framework for user-driven personal assistance – that is, within which framework we're going to investigate the different levels. I'm going to promise you that this is going to happen. We're going to work on this to follow it up, because it's obvious that we're very concerned that we're going to get this better.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e551	There will be three follow-up questions – first Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e554	There is no doubt that the Minister of Health disappointed many people when the proposal for a new health and care law was presented on Friday and the BPA is not being attached to it. But it was a little hopeful when the National Labour Party meeting ended up proposing, as the Council of State said, a rights fixation within today's framework after an investigation work to look at the costs. We now hope that the Minister of Health will see to it that this investigation is underway, in parallel with the fact that the Stortinget is dealing with a new law on municipal health and care services, so that we can have it as a basis for decision-making in determining the future of rights fixing. The representative Hagebakken said on the Facebook page of the Workers' Party: ‘The national meeting decision will provide users with the most assistance needed with the possibility to choose BPA’.» Will the Minister of Health have this promised investigation as a basis for his decision, so that we can adopt this law when dealing with this law?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e566	There is no doubt that what is done by investigation work will, of course, also be made available to the Storting. Here it is important that the National Assembly of the Workers Party has done so. We're going to pass this on to the government. If the government also joins in this, we will, of course, in contact with user organisations and KS, make these investigations to look at the framework for good organisation, so that we meet both the decisions that have been made and the objectives that the government has had both to extend the scheme and to improve it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e571	Jon Jäger Gåsvatn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e574	The rights attaching of user-controlled personal assistant is about the dignity of the disabled. It's about the possibility of being master of your own life. The progress party has always been in favour of a rights fixation. The Right Party and the Christian People's Party are now also for a right-wing party, and SV is talking in and out of breath that they are for right-wing celebration. The employee party’s staging representatives also say that they are in favour of a rights fixation. The only people who haven't made it clear that they're in favour of a rights fixation are the Center Party. So the question is whether the government's proposal not to attach rights to BPA is a victory for the Center Party in government, and maybe a compensation for the removal of vital functions in local hospitals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e581	The new Municipal Health and Welfare Act, which has been transmitted to Stortinget, has been drafted as a so-called professionally neutral law. There are very few obligations that municipalities should have on their own – that does not mean that they should not have sound and good services – but one of the obligations is that they should have an offer of user-driven personal assistance. That's because the government thinks it's important. In addition, this — which was in the old Social Services Act — is included in the Patient Rights Act, which states that there should be a high level of user involvement in the provision of services. So there is no doubt that the government has been concerned that this is an important and a good offer for the individual. We are now going to investigate further rights fixing, and will pass it on to look at both costs, scope and framework for user-driven personal assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e588	Filip Back – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e591	BPA is not a random welfare asset. It's a pretty basic service, so it's users' hands and feet in an otherwise demanding everyday life. We know that BPA helps more people get out of work. Without BPA, occupational activity and education would be reduced by about 70 pst. among the disabled. An ECON report estimates the total socio-economic value of the increased professional activity of people with disabilities with BPA and their family members at more than DKK 300000 per year per disability. Mostly this is about the individual human being, but it also has a significant side for society. You've been working on this for six years. We have a majority in Stortinget. And it's natural to ask the Council of States, how much can it cost? What's left about introducing something that's absolutely fundamental to a lot of people? It's more than a random well-being thing. It is absolutely essential for quality of life and for a meaningful everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e600	There should be no doubt that I too believe that this is a very important arrangement for many. We see that it's a good system and that it's a good choice for many people with disabilities. And so is it that if we look at the municipalities, at least those we've gone into, there's a different level of this service, and it's different how much money you spend on it. And here are also questions like, What age group is this going to apply to? Is this supposed to apply to absolutely everyone? Should there be any constraints on this? The national assembly of the Labour Party has referred to those who have a great need for help, and we are going to investigate these issues. And I'm absolutely sure the best ones to help us with that are the user organizations themselves. We therefore need to engage in dialogue with them in order to determine this in a good and sound manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e610	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e622	The President may inform the representatives that there are currently no changes to the list of questions drawn up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e629	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘University students are required by law to participate, in practice, on established examinations, in order to provide the teacher with a basis for assessment in the subject. According to teachers, this obligation lies in the fact that the teacher has obligations to notify the student in advance if there is a risk that there is no basis for characterisation, which many students seem to be adjusting to. Instead, more general rules for attendance in the subject are now sought in order to be entitled to assessment. Will the State Council consider changes to these rules?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e643	In recent years, we have been very concerned about improving the assessment work at school, both through a clear regulatory framework, better guidance on this and by raising skills to ensure a high level of quality in the assessment work of teachers. Ensuring the right and fair characterisation of students has been an important objective. Students have the right to be evaluated. But there can be no doubt that they have an obligation to be present and participate, so that the teacher has a basis for assessment. I see that there is a need to ensure that this becomes even better in the assessment regulation, and have therefore taken the initiative to adjust it at this point. Although it is voluntary to accept an offer of secondary education, students are not free to choose how much they will participate in the training if they have accepted the offer. This includes participation in tests. It follows, therefore, from § 3-4 of the Training Act that students – including teachers’ candidates and apprentices – should be actively involved in the training. The responsibility for providing a basis for professional assessment is governed by the regulations of the Training Act § 3-3. The understanding of this provision is elaborated in a circular from the Directorate of Education. It is stipulated that both the teacher and the student are responsible for the teacher’s basis for assessing the student’s competence in the subject. The student shall attend and participate in the training, while the teacher shall facilitate the training in order to enable the student to demonstrate his/her competence. These obligations must be seen in the context. This means, for example: that the student cannot be absent from much of the year's training, just before determining the position character, require a large test to provide the teacher with a basis for assessment. If absence is due to documented absences, such as: However, the teacher shall extend to enable the student to demonstrate his/her competence. Although the teacher has to stretch in certain situations in order to have an adequate basis for assessment, no one can demand the unreasonableness of the teacher in this regard. Here the teacher has to show a judgement, but it is not left to the student to decide this. If the student’s absence is large, it could mean that the teacher does not have a sufficient assessment basis and that the student does not receive a half-yearly or standing assessment. These provisions of the Regulation on the assessment of pupils were amended with effect from the autumn of 2009. I have met with many opinions on the provisions concerning the teacher's obligation under the third paragraph of Section 3-3 of the Regulation to obtain a basis for assessment, and several have claimed that the teachers' obligations now go too far. I see that the wording of today's regulation and circular from the Education Directorate has been interpreted in the sense that the teacher has very extensive obligations to obtain such an assessment basis, which was not the intention. To make the provision more clear that both the teacher and the student are responsible for the basis of assessment, I want to adjust the provision of the regulation. Therefore, on 23 March this year, the Education Directorate sent an adjusted regulatory provision at this point to be consulted. In addition to the public consultation, opinions from some individual teachers should also be sought to ensure that we now have a good tool. The hearing period is 23 June this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e662	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which is so uplifting. Last Saturday in the evening post, we were able to read some quotes from teachers who had clearly shown how hopeless they think the situation is. It is a generous offer from society to grant the right to secondary education, but it is certainly also important to understand that when you get such a right, it actually implies an obligation to fill that right and those years of schoolwork and not everything else. I have a challenge for the Council of State, because I don't think Norwegian high school students are going to throw themselves at long regulations and look for paragraphs in the Training Act. I wonder, is it an idea to think that almost authoritative students – and some are authoritative when they are in high school – should enter into a contract with the school at school, where they are very clear about what kind of duties they have, which comes with saying yes to high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e671	It's not sure there's any stupid idea, but I might want to pass the challenge on to the individual schools, because in many schools this is going perfectly well. There has been an opinion that we now clearly adjust, not because I believe it has been the basis for it, but because it is perfectly obvious that some of the children we have raised are very conscious children of rights who read regulations and paragraphs and beat the table with their understanding of how this should be. Teachers have stretched very far in facilitating a basis for giving character. We believe that there is a need to clarify this in such a way that students understand that they have an obligation – when they have accepted an offer of secondary education – to meet and act in such a way that it is easy for the teacher to set a position. So there can be exceptional situations around disease, etc., that make the teacher have to organize in a different way. But I think it's a good idea to pass on to the schools that if you have – what to say – ever-limiting trials because of the regulations, this can be an instrument.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e680	I don't think it's that simple that we should make this a matter that's up to the individual school. I think that the way the school works today, we don't have much other expectations for 16–17–18–19-year-olds than we have for 6–7-year-olds when they start school. The fact that there is a certain degree of progress in terms of responsibilities or obligations, and that students should understand what it means when going up in school, could be reflected in a type of contract that the 16-year-old – when he starts high school, or for each of the years in high school – signed, where he took personal responsibility to be present to ensure that teachers are given the basis for assessment. Because there's no doubt that we're busy catching time thieves in school. Teachers in high school say that it is a significant job to monitor the students and to keep track of whether they are there enough, so that in the next round you will have your back off and have documented well enough that you have alerted them when they are not in the classroom. I wish the Council of State would say that such a contract should be a must and mandatory for higher education in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e685	Now I hope that the adjustment to the regulation that we have at the hearing will in itself contribute to a strong limitation of the time spent around this, and that it will in itself mean that the students see that they themselves are responsible for participating in the teaching and meeting on tests, so that the teacher has a basis for setting a position. That's the whole background for taking that initiative. So I'm extremely concerned about efficient time use in school. In many schools, this is not a big problem, and the students are fully aware of their responsibilities. I see no reason to oblige them, from a central point of view, to create a lot of contracts and sign and manage with it. But in some schools, it can be a challenge to be unconscious, or think you have other rights than what you actually have. It could be an instrument. I would first like to assess the nature of the time-use involved, and whether this is necessary, before I believe that this is something that we will force all higher education schools in Norway to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e698	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘From December onwards, the train journey between Stavanger and Kristiansand may take up for 24 minutes longer. The double-track Sandnes–Stavanger would facilitate the situation of special commuters along the Jærbane. The increased traffic has resulted in the NSB proposing to increase travel time between Norway’s fourth and fifth largest cities. Can the Council of State defend increased travel time?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e707	NSB has seen that many of the trains on the Kristiansand–Stavanger route are unable to reach the target of a 90 pst punctuality, especially in the morning and afternoon. So it happens that travellers do not reach school, work or corresponding buses on Bryne, Klepp or Sandnes. It can't be like that. The timetable should be trusted. The NSB states that these lacks of punctuality are mainly due to high use on the single-track train path between Egersund and Sandnes. This means that the timetable is not robust enough. Small events and deviations themselves have considerable consequences for both passenger and freight traffic. The NSB and the Railway Agency shall initiate a project to identify the causes of delays. It is recommended to change some places where the train meets, but also to increase the running time for some departures. The NSB has informed me that, after a meeting with the West Agder County Municipality, they have now set up a proposal for scheduled times where some regions train between Kristiansand and Stavanger will have about 15 minutes of running time on the Egersund–Stavanger route. Some local trains get a smaller increment, in 1-3 minutes. On the new double track between Stavanger and Sandnes there will be only minor adjustments in route times. Following these changes, NSB will make the train between Stavanger and Kristiansand more stable. The NSB is planning to send a hearing letter to the county councils in Rogaland and West Agder, where they can bring their new timetable proposals to the NSB. In parallel, the Ministry of Transport, which has not yet had the opportunity to review its proposal, will do so now. I want to follow up on the fact that the train offer in the future is as good as possible, giving the infrastructure conditions on the route. I stress that the train operations involve the local authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e722	I thank you for your answer. That's how I see it, four main premises that need to be in order for the train to be competitive with other modes of transport. It's punctuality, it's frequency, it's travel time, and it's price. The matter we are now discussing concerns both punctuality and travel time. As travel time increases, the regional train becomes less attractive. At the same time, as punctuality increases, it will increase attractiveness. But when you look at the figures after the last meeting with the West Agder County Municipality, local people get a marginal increase, while the regional trains get an increase of roughly one quarter. That means, with the times being taken into account, that both bus and car, in addition to aircraft, will be more attractive on journey time than trains. Is there a development supported by the Minister for Transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e729	It is not a development that the Minister for Transport supports in isolation. But what's important to underline, and as the representative of Skovholt Gitmark is very well aware, is that the infrastructure on the South Coast is far from being the best. This is the first requirement for a stable train running and there is still much to be done, even if improvements have been made. New crossing tracks, ballastressing, etc. That means a lot. Then we're facing the election: are we going to do like nothing and let people come late and make their own schedules out of delays, or are we going to take this and make the best of the situation? The NSB will now select the last one. That's what I thought was right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e734	It is affordable that the railway is built out as double tracks. It is far from affordable to see the Sørlandsbanen suffer from both a lack of maintenance and a lack of investment. The Minister of Transport is quite right when she says that the Sørlandsbanen is too bad. The stretch Egersund-Sandnes is too bad. What does the Minister of Transport intend to do to increase the rate of investment on the railways between Oslo and Stavanger, so that we get a travel time that goes down and not up? In addition, I think it is very good that the Minister of Transport is so clear about what she likes and doesn't like. I agree with the heart – I like shorter travel time, I want a train that is attractive – but does the Minister for Transport also want to take advantage of his ability to give priority to the Sørlandsbanen and the route in his own country of origin between Egersund and Sandnes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e741	I agree with Skovholt Gitmark in his priorities. The answer is also yes to the question of whether I like to exploit the potential that is now to strengthen the railway. But let me underline: the railway wears with decades of neglect. There's a lot to do here. The Railway Agency now has resources to give priority to maintenance and renewal. We have a huge amount of work going on in the Oslo area, which is the very hub of our whole railway structure. It will be completed in 2012. There are three important elements: it's maintenance and renewal. There's the Oslo area in particular. It's planning new tracks, implementing new paths – we're going to open three new big projects this year. On the southern runway there is also renewal, and we will get further back to him in connection with the ongoing rolling of the national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e754	The question is: ‘The construction of modern and safe roads in Norway is slowly under the red-green government now running from 2005. Funding, the choice of enterprise and not least the lack of plans and long planning periods are important reasons why Norway still has an old-fashioned, bad and traffic-threatening road network. Poor roads and the slow renewal of the road network in Norway increase distance congestion, weaken competitiveness and lead to a high level of road traffic damage. What are the measures taken by the Council of State to speed up road construction?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e763	The government has taken the consequences of what the representative of Sortevik calls ‘stretched development’, by bringing up a historical commitment to transport, cf. National Transport Plan 2010–2019. For road purposes, this represents a significant increase. We're building far more roads now than before. We also build more coherently than before. In Guideline 2 on the work of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, the government proposes an even more coherent development. In its work on the national transport plan for the coming period, i.e. 2014–2023, the government has asked the authorities to develop different options, including: one option based on the current level and one option with an additional 45 pst increment. Over the year, the technical maturity – the maintenance run – on the road network has increased. In the 2011 government budget, the level of greening for maintenance was increased by about 60 pst. compared to the 2010 budget. With this we will stop the decay. In Guideline 2 for work on the forthcoming National Transport Plan, the government has asked the State Road Administration to develop a strategy for increasing operational and maintenance efforts, including the reduction of technical maturity, based on a qualitatively best possible and up-to-date basis. The state road system is in the process of completing a comprehensive monitoring of the technical maturity in preparation for this work. Increased licenses will make major demands on the State Road Administration with regard to planning and implementation. The state road authority has already increased the planning and building lease capacity both with its own resources and with the use of external consultants. Work is continuing on recruiting additional personnel. The state's road system has been working to see how planning processes can be streamlined within existing legislation and regulations, so that planning time can be shorter without jeopardising the rights of fundamental owners and important social interests. Possible increased use of government plans will also be included in this work. In cooperation with the consultancy and entrepreneurship industry, the State Road Administration is working on developing entrepreneurship forms and improving efficiency and interaction in the entrepreneurship industry. Developments towards larger entrepreneurship mean that the state road system is also working to get more foreign entrepreneurs to compete for jobs in Norway. E6 in Helgeland is an example of a contract basis for the development, maintenance and operation of a distance of approximately 260 km with a contractual period of 10-15 years. Another measure for more effective implementation is the development of longer interrelated routes, which will reduce the cost of developing the road network. Gardermoen–Colomoen is one of several examples of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e776	Thank you for your expected answer. The reality is a little bit different. Through the media in recent times and in various ways, we have received a searchlight on the implausible road situation in Norway in 2011. Both the former and the present Minister for Transport have made it a firm answer to the government that ruled from 2001 to 2005. But examples that came in 2011 are new sins that this government is responsible for. A fresh one is E6 through Gudbrandsdalen, Biri-Otta, which is divided into five parts, where Otta-Ringebu in 57 km would be one project and no longer is it. It is now being built in stages and plans are missing. Another example is the E18 Ørje–Vinterbro, which is divided into nine parcels. In some places it's actually the four-field highway. Four couples remain, and plans are missing. It's cheapest to build continuously. Why not build more projects in a coherent way?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e781	I understand that it is something hairy to point to the past. Let me remind you of a saying that I actually think can rhyme in this context, which says that we need to know history in order to understand the notes and to make the right choices that apply to the future. Of course, I am most busy with the future, but it is actually such that we wear with a slip on the road and have to consider it. Last winter – and this winter – there has been a significant need for maintenance. It must be stopped. So let's do that. When it comes to the future work for Ringebu-Otta, my ambition is still a coherent development, but all plans are not ready. We start now, as agreed on time, with Frya-Sjoa and continue to give the necessary clarifications, with the rest, and still have a coherent development. I'm going to do my best for consistent expansion to a much greater extent than what we've seen now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e788	That's good to hear. It remains to be seen whether it is being implemented. Last Monday we could read a notice in the evening post. I quote Lars Aksnes in the Road Directorate: ‘In the light of the post-clock, one might say that we should have built up four-field roads to a greater extent.’ So there was a notice that Norwegian road development is based on wrong traffic figures. Sub-dimensioned roads are being built. There is a mistake that has been made for several decades with several governments, but there is an error that is passed on by this government. It is the case that the Directorate of Road and the Ministry of Transport are building a road development and dimensioning of new roads that they may even know are wrong in relation to actual traffic development. It has also been confirmed by a SINTEF study in 2010. How will the Council of State ensure that roads are built that are more properly dimensioned both for current and not least for future traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e800	First, to the lookup to which it was displayed. Here, the representative, Mr. Sortevik, reminds us of the past, for the examples used there are mainly from 10 to 20 years ago. Let me say that when it relates to the forward traffic base and to the calculations that were taken into account, that's right. I have recorded the same thing that has often been claimed, that the State Road Administration operates with conservative figures. We're going to do the best we can to have up-to-date forecasts. The road system in the state will generate as much updated forecasts as possible. So it's in the afternoon light that we see how the traffic really gets. So the main point for us is more money, more new ways and more maintenance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e811	The question is as follows: «The E6 through Gudbrandsdalen has been one of the performance projects in recent Norwegian transport. However, on 31 March of this year, the Council of State sent out a notice that the Ringebu-Otta route is now to be completed in stages and not in conjunction with the previous one. In what way will the Council of State ensure that planned road development can be made coherent rather than stage-by-stage, and is the Council of State willing to be more inspired by how other countries solve these kinds of challenges?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e818	And I think that coherent expansion is important. I am glad that today we have a good example of this. Now we'll see more related expansions in the future. E6 Ringebu-Otta is a stretch with many o'clocks. It is important to get started with a new road. Some parts of the distance are not yet fully scheduled. The project has been considerably more expensive. By dividing the project into two stages, we can start with Frya-Sjoa as planned. There is still a coherent expansion of ambition. The final clarification is made in the rolling of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, i.e. spring 2013. The Government has also assessed other measures in the NAP 2010-1019 that will facilitate a more long-term development of the road network. Development contracts where operational, maintenance and development tasks will be part of the contracts are such a measure. The state road authority is now working to facilitate the use of one or more such contracts for parts of the national road network throughout this period. E6 in Helgeland is an area where the use of such contracts may be relevant. Development contracts can facilitate a more co-ordinated long-term management and development of a more defined name, for example. by enabling the contractor within such contracts to choose solutions that reduce costs during the subsequent operational and maintenance phase. In addition, such contracts will facilitate, inter alia: better resource deployment for the contractor, more co-ordinate mass disposal, lower rigging costs for the contractor and lower construction costs. The state road authority generally believes that such contracts can provide savings of a size of 10-15 pst. The State Road Service has aligned planning efforts according to the priorities of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 and through its own action programme for that period. I still think there is a basis for looking at the potential to streamline the planning process. I am aware that the State Road Service has started a work to look at how planning processes can be streamlined within the current legislation. The ambition of the work is to shorten the planning period without jeopardising the rights of fundamental owners and important social interests. A more efficient planning could better facilitate early plan clearance on longer sections that are priority lines in the NTP, thus facilitating more coherent development of longer distances.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e831	In the evening post in November 2010, former Minister of Transport Kjell Opseth went out and criticized the government’s pace of development and said that ‘the system has become a monster in time use and postponements’. In the nation on 11 April, the question is asked, ‘Does Kleppa end the climbing?’ That's what they say. ‘The planning and construction systems are as important as the billions granted. ‘... Now I notice that the Minister of Transport is talking about new ways of building a road, through development contracts, and that the planning phase is going to be shorter. Does what the Minister for Transport say now mean that we want to see something completely new in the future, and when do we want to see it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e845	First of all, when it comes to climbing, the foremost figure to avoid it is more money. The government has shown it in this period, more money to go. Thus, there will also be more coherent expansion. Gardermoen–Colomoen is an example, E18 through Westfold another. There are more. I myself was just at the Minnesund–Dal section, and there I saw how the project can now be built – i.e. 19 km to 2.3 billion. kr – with progress two years faster than by private expansion. There's different one here to go through. When it comes to the time perspective, we're going to see something already in this period, and then the big discussion comes in connection with the new NTP, i.e. spring 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e854	Analyses from the technical reports, which were presented on 1 February 2011 as supporting material for a new NTP, indicate that significant population growth is expected in our urban areas. With an increasing population, there is also an increasing transport demand. So my question to the Minister of Transport is, how does the Council of State think that if the pace doesn't increase significantly, progress will be made on the road and track? Now I hear that the Council of State is thinking of new ways of building a road. That's what I think is very exciting, and I'll ask you again, when will it come? Will it come in the roll of the NTP now, or we'll see new ways to build the road first in the next NTP, and she'll pick up inspiration, for example. from Austria?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e861	First, when it comes to core network distribution: they've shown us a development, and they've pointed in a direction that it's important to stay. It means community action in cities, and it means more roads in districts. To the time perspective: we will already see changes in this period, because more money is now being spent on road year by year, and thus there will also be a better basis for more coherent development. So to inspiration from other countries: Yes, we have ordered our own report for the roll-out, where we gain experience in organizing and financing from other countries as well. But new forms of contract can already come. I refer to Helgeland as an example – E6 in Helgeland is within the current period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e874	‘Amming is one of the most effective measures to prevent disease in children and breast cancer in women. Almost all Norwegian women start breast-feeding, but despite the fact that Norway has a relatively high breast-feeding rate compared to other western countries, many stop breast-feeding long before they want it for reasons that could have been avoided. Will the government ensure that Norwegian health professionals can continue to receive the necessary training and guidance from the National Centre of Competence for Breast-feeding?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e881	The representative, Sjøli and I agree on one thing: we want to ensure that women's health, research on women's health and competences relating to diseases affecting women are cared for and strengthened where there is a need for it. In my reply to the Questionnaire on 24 November last year, I stressed the need to ensure the continuation of the competence of three national centres of excellence for women’s health — including the National Centre of Competence for Breastfeeding. The benefits of breast-feeding are well documented and are recognised throughout the healthcare system. It is a natural task for healthcare to facilitate women’s follow-up to the authorities’ recommendation on breast-feeding. This applies to both the community and specialist health services at the 61 000 births that occur each year in Norway. In the November Question Time last year, I explained the comprehensive process behind the management of national expertise services in the specialist health service. New regulation came into force on 1 January of this year. It requires national expertise services in the specialist health service to ensure the dissemination of competences across healthcare, other service providers and users, as well as to contribute to relevant education and research. I want to ensure that the competence built up by the National Centre of Competence for Breast-feeding is maintained. National expertise services have an important role to play in areas where we just need to build up more knowledge. In areas where we have knowledge, the most important thing will be to spread and secure ownership of this among those who sit closest to the patients and the people who need it. In a short time, I will issue decisions on which national services in the specialist health service are to be continued under the new regulation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e898	I thank you for your answer. I am pleased that the Council of State says that she will ensure that the important competence continues. But what I am also concerned about is whether she will ensure that these centres of expertise continue, including: the centre of competence for female health, the centre of competence for breast-feeding and the centre of competence for gynaecological cancer. In the case of breast-feeding, there is a very high need for this competence in both the community and specialist health services, and demand has increased significantly since the lower time spent at the maternity ward. However, the further question is whether centres of excellence will be reduced in breast-feeding and in female health and gynaecological cancer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e905	As I see it now, these services of competence in women's health will be proposed further. So it's always the way to make assessments of what's best. But as it is today, they will be continued. What is important in terms of the centre of competence for breast feeding is precisely, as the representative Sjøli says, that the competence comes out, and in the situation we are now in, where many come out early from the female clinic/food department and come home, that they are also taken care of. I've just looked at a good example of this in Mount Hordaland, where they have a midwife home project – very good. The women are in the clinic for a short time, coming home and can be followed up by both midwife and health sister – a very good service that we want to develop more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e912	It is possible that I did not perceive the answer quite concretely. But does that mean that the Council of State now says that the centre of competence for female health, the centre of competence for breast-feeding and the centre of competence for gynaecological cancer will be continued? We also know that there is a lot of useful knowledge that is not used in health policy. I can ask what the Council of State will do to ensure that, but first of all, I am concerned about getting a clear and clear answer as to whether these centres of competence mentioned are going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e919	I'm very concerned that we're going to continue this. As the situation is, of course, the most important thing about these centres of expertise is to create knowledge internally, but it is also important to spread that knowledge throughout the country. We do, and I'm concerned that we're going to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e928	‘The government manufactures it as if all patients in Norway receive equal treatment. This is not true. A woman who did a back operation at the Bergen Spine Center private clinic a few years ago has not been able to cover the cost of the operation, despite the fact that another patient from the same municipality had to cover the costs of the same operation. The operation has been successful and given her a new life. Does the Council of State consider discrimination acceptable or should patients be compensated for their expenses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e935	Equal treatment for patients is a basic principle of public health care in Norway. The Patient Rights Act provides that the patient is entitled to the necessary health care from the specialist healthcare service. The starting point of the law is non-discrimination, an equal right for all patients for the necessary treatment. That said, it has to be added that the principle of non-discrimination cannot prevent healthcare from prioritising patients according to the speed with which they need to be provided. Patients who cannot wait for medical reasons must be taken first. Regional health undertakings shall ensure that the patient is provided with this healthcare in the specialist healthcare service. These specialist health services may be provided by regional health establishments themselves or by agreement with other providers. Regional health enterprises have ongoing contracts with a number of private hospitals and treatment centres. Thus, the State covers the costs of patient treatment at private treatment points that have been agreed with regional health companies following competitive tendering. In addition, situations may arise in which patients with the right to the necessary health care do not receive help within the prescribed period. If the patient contacts HELFO, HELFO will soon find an offer either in Norway or abroad, for example. in a private hospital in Norway. If a patient chooses to be treated in a private hospital that does not have an agreement with a regional health company or the treatment in question is not covered by the agreement, the patient must cover the costs himself. With regard to the two issues referred to, I am not aware of the specific circumstances that have led to one having been covered by the costs of operation at Bergen Spine Center, while another has not received it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e948	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I record what the council says about the law and about the patients. Obviously, though, if you have the wrong expert or the wrong professional to refer to, it will have consequences for whether you are being treated or not. The Council of State says that priority patients should be patients who have a strong need. This was a relatively new mother who could no longer care for her own child, and therefore finally chose to take the consequences of it and paid for the operation itself. I think it's a little bad that the public, when you can no longer take care of your own child because of pain, won't stand up and contribute. And I think the Council of State should answer whether she thinks it's okay that it depends on which expert or expert asking for treatment, whether you get it or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e957	It is obvious that the representative Hoksrud knows better and more fully about the two cases involved. It is true that if you are judged to be entitled to the necessary health care, and there is a private clinic that has an agreement with a health care company, you can choose it. However, it is important to follow the assessment made by a doctor — or another doctor — if you think that your doctor has been wrong. I can't answer anything other than in principle. Of course, I am concerned that those who need the necessary health care get it, and that they are assessed equally. Having an equivalent health service in Norway is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e966	I understand that the Council of State cannot stand in the Stortinges Question Time and go into detail on individual matters. But I had hoped – and hope – that the Council of State would nevertheless consider looking at these matters. I believe there are two completely identical operations that have been carried out. Patients live in the same municipality. This means that there is no consistency as to which health business is involved. They should therefore have received equal treatment, and the public should have covered the costs. The health undertaking will not respond to whether it will cover the costs. Patients have complained to the Health Authority without a reply. Two years have passed since the operation was carried out. So I hope the Council of State can imagine asking you to look at these routines, so you might be able to help these patients. In addition, the challenge is that the tax rate will not reduce the cost of this operation. They believe that this does not fall within the criteria to which the tax system relates. I hope that the Council of State will take a closer look at this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e975	I can, of course, look at the general problem, I'd like to do that. Equally full, patients in Norway are likely to have to follow the legislation that is in place. Health services are designed to provide treatment for the sick first. This is based on the individual case, assessments that politicians cannot do. In the case of the Bergen Spine Center, they had an agreement with the Health West until 2010. I don't know if this one woman has opted for treatment there after that time, but it's at least clear that you should have a right to treatment at an institution, it has to be an institution that has an agreement with either the healthcare company you belong to, or another health company. And you have to be considered to be a priority for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e986	‘Both States and local authorities have had arrangements to pay, inter alia: tater/room-child-home children. It seems that many tattoos that are entitled to remuneration have actually not received it, for some may be due to their being placed in state-aided orphanages in due course without a legal decision. What measures have been taken to evaluate the functioning of State and municipal humiliation and remuneration schemes and to clarify and ensure that all those who have suffered an injury have actually received upliftment?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e993	The representative, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, asks what measures have been taken to evaluate the functioning of state and municipal schemes for the provision of low-cost compensation and remuneration, and to clarify and ensure that all those who have suffered congestion have actually received upliftment — which is very important to many. Under the Storting’s own judicial compensation scheme, individuals who have come out particularly unfortunate in their meeting with the public may apply for discretionary compensation. No one is entitled to compensation. So there's a replacement scheme that goes something beyond what the law says. However, the aim must be to compensate those who have come out particularly unfortunate. The judicial remedy system has as its starting point the need to apply for legal compensation, with the necessary documentation. The Board will contribute to an adequate investigation of the matter in accordance with the principles of the Administrative Act. The Judicial Remuneration Committees – appointed by the Stortinget – which decide on the cases take responsibility for ensuring that those who have been injured in fact receive the remuneration provided for by the Stortinget. There have been many debates in the United Kingdom about these schemes. Replacement schemes for children in orphanages and special schools for children with behavioural disabilities were dealt with in St.meld. No 24 for 2004–2005 and Innst. S No 217 for the same period. The size decided to adjust the justice system for this group and for the children in foster homes for the period up to 1980. Among other things, the requirements for proof of serious misconduct and care failure were to be lowered somewhat, and greater emphasis was to be placed on a self-declaration of such matters. The self-declaration was therefore the basis of the case – and still is. When the representative, Røe Isaksen, claims that it appears that many people have actually not been paid, this may be because they have not been compensated under municipal compensation schemes. Municipal examination and municipal compensation are part of the municipal maritime administration. Not all municipalities have established such compensation schemes. There we have differences. With regard to evaluation and clarification measures, I mention that on 7 January this year the government set up a sample to identify the consequences of Norwegian space policy. Some of the questions raised by Røe Isaksen can be addressed in this work. The committee shall deliver its report by 30 November 2013. In addition, the Government, at the request of the Storting, has launched a review of various aspects of the judicial compensation system, a system which is based on the Stortinget, but which includes: The Ministry of Justice has a clear responsibility for the more administrative, i.e. the operation of the scheme. The result of this review, which goes wider than just dealing with the space people and, to the extent that children in children's homes, will be presented to the Stortinge during this big-time period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1010	I would first like to thank the Minister of Justice for a thorough answer. I want to peck a couple of the points. Let me just say that I think it is very important that the Stortinget – and also the government – on behalf of the Norwegian state follow up the work of correcting what was obviously a historical attack on several groups. It's important and good. There are two issues I would like the Minister of Justice to address. One is this requirement for documentation. Because we hear regular claims about and people who believe that the way they were taken away from the families and put in institutions, if not state-run, so at least state sanctioned and funded, made it impossible to obtain evidence. There is simply a lack of documentation. It's a problem. The second thing I wish the Minister of Justice could say is whether this sample that is now set down should also recommend something, or should it be just a review?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1023	When it comes to the question of documentation, I want to refer to what I said in my main response. For some groups, the documentation requirement has been significantly facilitated. As far as I have learned, it was also done in connection with the war children, so that the declaration of that sea was very much sufficient. But the Storting, which is searing over the system, must at any time consider how far one should go up against this, because, as the representative will understand, it could go wrong if we open up justice with self-documentation almost a bloc. So we have to have some requirements. It challenges us who are responsible for large parts of the administration, whether in the education sector, child protection, or in families with children, or in minority groups, that we need to dig in our own public archives to find adequate documentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1030	I think I just want to give the Minister of Justice the opportunity to answer the second part of the question. I can elaborate on that a little bit. The Minister of Justice says that a sample has been set up to identify the consequences of Norwegian romance policy. That, of course, is positive. It may be that this sample comes over either fate or things that ought to be done about, and corrected, and that the compensation and compensation schemes that we have today have not given enough uplift to victims. So my question is whether this group also has the opportunity to recommend policies to the ministry, or whether it should be a purely impact assessment, because there are two quite different things.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1037	I have to admit that the mandate for this selection is not clear to me, but I would like to come back to the representative on this matter. But in any case, if it is not clear that it is necessary to make proposals, it is up to both the Storing and the Government, when such monitoring is obtained, to quickly see if there is a need to make changes. I would like to ask to get back to the representative in an appropriate form in this respect. I'll look into it. In this way, I believe that it is particularly important also in the context of the review of the justice system, that the Stortinget seas, as is now the case with this scheme, are given a good basis for deciding on possible changes that meet more in a better way than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1048	Then I allow myself to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘At a time when the Council of State and the Department are notifying the police, Agder Police Stations are presenting a plan of downsizing due to a lack of resources. This is in a district that is already struggling because they don't have the resources to meet a multiple of the population part of the summer. The citizens and politicians lose confidence that the police will be there when situations arise. How will the government provide help to the population in acute situations, when manning is constantly being reduced due to a lack of resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1057	It is not right that Agder police districts are out of resources. I've gone in and I've looked at the numbers, and they show that in 2005 314 million were allocated. kr to Agder Police District. This year a disposal note has been issued to allow you to use 426 million. kr. In that period, there has been a growth of 56.3 pst. There's no lack of resources. There are quite a lot of resources put at the disposal of the Agder police district. Only in the last year has the budget increased by 15 million. kr. So you have $15 million. kr more to be used this year than last year. There's a growth of 3.7 pst. Then it's like any police district has to stay within these growing limits. If you spend more than you had at your disposal last year, it has to be taken in this year. I guess that's some reason why you're now trying to include something in the Agder counties. Then I would also like to show that there is often a debate about the number of police officers and how much money you get when we discuss the power of the police. But I want to give honor to the Agder police district, because I know it's a district that delivers well and creates a lot of security. So it's not supposed to be a picture that this isn't where cops do their job. This is a police district that, in my opinion, delivers well. Only since 2008 has there been a reduction in the length of proceedings in the police district, and it is well located, in 107 days. There is an explanation rate of 40.6, which is higher than in many other police districts, and actually above the target. So it doesn't look dark. We also hope that the budgets of the future will meet the needs of Agder, together with the government's choice to make its main effort to train more police officers. One thing is to have money in your hand, another thing is that this money should go to hire new policemen. A change of government was then necessary in 2005. Because we've tripled the police high school admission, as opposed to what the Right did when they were in government. Thus, during this period, we have trained more than 1,600 more policemen than was done in the previous period of government. After all, it's what's important if you want more policemen, including Agder.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1068	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was not surprising. It refers to what's done, and that's great. But it's still a reality that the police chief in Agder says she has to reduce the manning because she doesn't have enough money to move on. Then it might be that the good results change. 27 places of employment shall become 11. The staff shall be reduced from 592 to 550. After a meeting with the police last week, the rapporteur in Veganshei from the Workers' Party said that she was still concerned. The rapporteur, Mr Rødt in Risør, says that he is not the least reassured, and the rapporteur in Tvedestrand, who is himself a police officer, says that we now have a trust problem in the way the police operate. Is this what underscores the opinion of the Council of State, or does he see that here it is a warning that a person must take seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1075	It is at the bottom that we train far more policemen than what the Right did when they were in government. We donate significantly more money, 56 pst. more to Agder, than that which was done when the Right sat in the government. These are important elements of a police effort. Everyone in the police is concerned that we should grant more money and educate more people. So if you in Agder are proposing to reduce the number of places of employment, as has been said, there's a discussion we just have to take at times when the budgets are increasing. I was using an old right-wing slogan to make the best use of the money. It's not certain that the structure of the lumbar seat that was built in the 1800s is the structure that we should maintain now in order to meet the kind of crime we're facing. I am concerned that the police districts will manage to spend the money as efficiently as possible, no matter how much it is. They will do so in consultation with local authorities, as has been done in many other places in the country where more patrols have actually been deployed to carry out security work, when one has actually taken some action on how the structure is. But it is best to do so in agreement with the rapporteurs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1084	The race about who has made the most historical is far from interesting, for here it is about security now and forward. Let me do an example. I mention in the summer question, when the population up to threefold in the South. The same applies to winter places. I'm so lucky to have a creep in the mountains, that's right in Telemark, in Tokke Municipality. During the winter holidays, there was one who was drunk on snowmobiles and was driving down my children and several others, and we called the police, of course. The police were sitting in Skien, because there are also reduced places of service. It's at least an hour and a half to get to Hallbjännsack, where we have a cabin. We basically agreed with the police that it was wasted to move out. Of course, it is both cost-effective and effective, but it does not provide security for its citizens. That situation is now a fear in Agder, when the distance to the offices is considerably longer, by reducing the number from 27 to 11. Does the Council of State think it's okay with an hour and a half?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1093	There's a basic misunderstanding here, because it's not the office that goes out when you put an office down. It is reasonably weatherproof – the coffee maker, the copier, etc. Stand still. What's the result where you've done structural transformations is you get more policemen out and use administrative resources to have people in the cars. It shortens the response time – I see the representative shaking his head, but that's our experience. Follo Police District is a good example of this. There, the number of places of employment was reduced from 16 to 2 and an additional round-the-clock patrol was given. It is clear that it helps to reduce the response time. I am pleased that the average response time in the Norwegian police is between eight and ten minutes, and I think we should be able to do it even better – if we are able to use the resources in the best possible way and ensure that the resources are deployed into the police force outside. Then it is not certain that it means building up offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1104	‘The Government’s consultation proposal for a new law on student relations proposes that the Ministry should be able to dismiss the board of directors of the communications when it considers that the Board would jeopardise the activities of the student co-operation. The Ministry is also given the possibility to appoint a new Governing Board. User management is a historical and fundamental principle of communication. A board elected by students should be appointed by students. Will the Council of State add to this democratic principle and deprive students of the power to choose their leaders?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1111	Good and equivalent student welfare is important for everyone to have a real equal right to higher education. Through a good welfare system, we can ensure that everyone can complete higher education regardless of their economic background. The Ministry of Knowledge has as its law administrator and grants an overall responsibility for student welfare in higher education. Through the Law of the University and the Higher Education Act, educational institutions have a responsibility for the learning environment of students and student relations are responsible for the operational welfare of students. The aim is to have a system that ensures the sound economic operation of welfare services, which ensures that student welfare is equivalent and present throughout the country, and that students have a significant influence over this. Student interaction is still to provide student welfare to the students, and I do not want to change the good basic principle of user management in the ‘student relationship’ model. To answer specifically the question asked by the representative Dagrun Eriksen, I would first like to draw attention to the fact that the board of student relations consists of members elected by the students, by the educational institutions and by the employees – not just by the students. Despite the important societal tasks of student relations and the large sums they manage in grants from the state, we currently have legislation that does not sufficiently ensure student welfare when relations come into serious economic problems, and unfortunately we have seen some examples of it. What is proposed in the draft consultation – and I would like to stress that this has not yet been finally adopted, but it is a draft consultation – is that the ministry can dismiss the board if, and only if, the dialogue between the student and ministry does not lead. This will be a very special case where the student welfare of today's and tomorrow's students is put at risk. I stress that the Ministry of Knowledge does not see that this tool will be used except in extreme cases, i.e. that it should be a safety net in the end. If the Management Board is to be set up, the Ministry will set up an interim board which assumes this responsibility on a temporary basis, until a new Management Board is elected, if this is adopted. A new board of directors is chosen according to the rules of today’s student cooperation law. That is to say, members of the educational institution are elected, from the staff of the co-operation and from among the students. Students may continue to choose to hold the Governing Board and to have a majority in the Board of Directors. It is therefore not a matter of adding democratic principles or depriving students of power, but of ensuring that a future student welfare offer can be maintained at all our universities and colleges. Just because student relations play such an important role in Norwegian higher education, we need to be prepared when the unintended and unfortunate occur. We are all well served with a robust student welfare, and we are all well-deserved that the good basic principle laid down in the communication model is in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1137	It sounds like a very good answer and a very safe answer, and then we can make sure everything goes well. But there is no doubt that this violates a fundamental principle, namely that it is those who choose their representatives who should also have the right to dismiss them. For me, it seems that the government through this will put ties on important organisations that at times may have a tedious oppositional voice. Another proposal contained in the same draft consultation is the introduction of a qualified majority of two thirds. It will also be to abolish one of the historically important principles of interaction, namely user management. State Secretary Kyrre Lekve has stated that this proposal is not aimed at the students alone, but at the board as a whole. But it seems to me that the proposal is aimed precisely at the students. So my question to the Council of State is: won't a qualified majority of two thirds abolish the majority of students on the board and thus also the principle of user management?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1146	I would like to stress that this is a draft that is being consulted, and it is in consultation with those proposals because we have seen examples of the fact that some of the interactions that have been economically disposed of in such a way that student welfare does not benefit. Since the legislation here, which dates back to 1939, is somewhat deficient in securing students and student welfare – that the money is not used for anything else – it is necessary to have some security mechanisms. One of them is the proposal on the ministry, which has the highest responsibility in any case, can dismiss the board and reinstate it in the way I have mentioned. The second thing that has aroused discussion is what the representative is now raising, namely that in some cases – not in all – it should be a qualified majority. The cases in which it is proposed that a qualified majority may be needed include borrowing, investment in new student housing, start-up of new business or expansion of existing ones. So we don't think all of the issues to be managed should have such a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1153	I think the reason why this arouses so much outrage and outreach in the student organisations is that you now, both by wanting to introduce a qualified majority, and that the department is now reserving the right to kick those who are not doing their job well enough, violates some basic principles. It is a good, healthy and democratic principle that it is those who choose, who are also responsible for dismissing those who do not do their job. The other things that are proposed in the consultation response are, of course, sensible, namely to be responsible for the training of those who are being selected. The Accounting Act – all about financial default – is another mechanism in society that can take care of. But what I think is the most important thing you could have done now is that when the students sit with a majority of the board, they will also have to sit with responsibility for doing this in a proper and proper way, being appointed by their own and assigned by their own. I hope that the Council of State can take all these recordings with her when she concludes the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1162	I think it would be an advantage if in the many conversations we have with the students about this, we were able to come up with good solutions on how to secure against financial default, when the construction is like it is today. This is an attempt to find a solution that does not violate the basic principle of the students' fundamental rights in that board, and that it is based on the students as important user representatives. At the same time, however, the legislation here is so old-fashioned – to say the least – that it is not guaranteed to meet the kind of challenges we have seen and with which we have great problems if the worst happens, if we get into an economic misery. That's what we're concerned about. We are committed to securing students, not only as users, but also as recipients of welfare and interaction services. That is what we are concerned about, and we are happy to accept good suggestions on how to ensure this. Otherwise, I can assure you that we have a good dialogue. Although there is disagreement and discussion, we have a good dialogue with student organisations on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1176	My question goes to the Minister for Agriculture and Food: ‘Since 2004, we have seen a management of predatory game that has not dealt with any of the assumptions of the Stortinget agreement. Politically, no state council has informed Stortinget about this. The result is that all interests other than predatory game will be distorted in, for example: Eastern Hedmark. Now the pressure on the rest of the county is increasing, and the Food Authority has agreed to notify grazing if the loss rates do not decrease – together with a very effective policy of displacement. How could the Council of State let this happen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1185	Many animals die on pasture for various reasons, and it is important to look at measures to reduce the suffering of animals. The reason for the losses is many, but predatory game accounts for a large proportion of the losses. Illness, injuries and other causes contribute to making the losses as high as they are at present. It is positive that the Food Authority should pay attention to animal welfare for grazing animals. However, I would like to stress that the Food Safety Authority has not taken a decision on grazing during the 2012 grazing season. I still believe, as I have said in this Chamber before, that it was unwise for the Food Authority to rush with the strongest instrument we have before a thorough assessment has been made in individual specific cases. The game management is based on the 2004 Robbery Agreement, which was also the right behind it. The objective is twofold. Provision shall be made for populations of predatory game and for viable grazing. Today’s situation is that we have – yes, in many cases over-fulfilled – the objectives of building up predatory strains. In many areas there are more predators than the stock targets. But in the other area, ensuring a viable grazing diet, we're not in goal. The loss of grazing animals shows that the level of conflict is still too high. In 2010, 2000 more sheep were replaced and 9 000 more clean than in 2004. In my opinion, this is a serious situation. Given the persistent nature of the conflict over a number of years before the government entered into force in 2005, measures aimed at reducing the conflict were launched both in Soria Moria I and II. But losses are not reduced, and there is no reason to be satisfied with the situation. Gaupe and yours together stand for 65-70 pst. of replaced sheep and even more for pure. Allowances on rags and licenses on yours have increased in recent years. Nevertheless, stock development shows that a greater proportion of the population should be taken out in order to reach the stock target. Predictability is essential in order for us to be able to use the field for valuable food production and then have to stock up to the stock targets on which the predatory agreement is based. Targeting off-takes to important grazing areas will have a significant loss-reduction effect. This should be done at the same time as a number of other measures. Funding under the agricultural agreement is constantly being used to improve grazing by stimulating appropriate organisation and cooperation between animal owners. A national grazing project is under way with the aim of improving sheep farming and reducing the loss of pasture. The government has increased the provision for prevention from 32 million. SEK in 2005 to 80 million. DKK in 2009 and up to 68 million. kr in 2011. It increases the possibility for the animal owners concerned to apply for support for measures to prevent predatory damage. The Government continued the compensation scheme to ensure that each animal owner was compensated for documented and probable predatory game. In view of the wide gap between the perception of actual losses from predatory game by animal owners and the management, an expert committee is now working on improvements to the livestock compensation scheme. This was also discussed in Soria Moria. The committee concerned shall report in June. The State's natural resources are strengthened and have a greater capacity for damage-reduction and local killing training. The number of accumulating permits has increased from 68 in 2005 to 192 in 2010, and actual deposits had increased from 24 to 93. The government also proposes compensation for participants in municipal carnage camps from the first day. Owners of animals who are required by the Food Safety Authority to temporarily lower sheep from pasture shall be entitled to compensation for the costs involved. With the creation of Rovdata in 2010, there has been increased local involvement in file registration. This will increase the quality and trust of official stock estimates. The government has thus taken a number of steps to ensure increased predictability and continued viability of operations, based on agricultural resources in predatory areas. Now the situation is such that the Storting is responsible and must ensure a broad political anchoring of the settlement of wolf and bear. It is important that this possibility of continuing the Norwegian predatory policy is taken into account in Stortinget. I expect then that we will get a good result from this treatment – not least because many people in agriculture invest a whole life’s work when they choose to go into food production. They deserve a long-term and predictable predatory policy that lasts over time and is anchored in the breadth of Norwegian policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1213	It was a long answer, but with respect to reporting, there was no answer to the question. This is linked to Eastern Hedmark, and the Council of State knows just as well as I do that there is most of it displaced. You don't have the right to graze again. Not only that, the state has actually lost two lawsuits based on grazing. The council was at the same seminar as me last week, when one of the best lawyers on this in the country said that the robbery administration is going into the courtroom, because there is a completely different perception in the administration of what Norwegian law says, than it is in the courtroom. It's very serious, so I was looking to hear: what has the Council of State done quite specifically to stop an administration that obviously doesn't understand what the law actually says? We have, as we said, as a background here, that the state has lost two legal cases, starting with the use of pasturage.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1222	What is important is to stress that there are two departments responsible for different elements of this complex issue. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment to respond to this. With regard to the Food Safety Authority, which is my responsibility to answer for, I would just like to stress that it is obvious that the Food Safety Authority is set to manage animal welfare matters. Food surveillance also has a high degree of independence in the exercise of that oversight function. I said at this conference, at which we were both present, that I assume that the Food Authority is dealing with the legislation in force and with the case-law in which they are to choose the instruments. Pastoral restrictions are very interventional measures, which should only be used when other less invasive measures are not produced. It is underlined to the Food Authority, and it is of course such that it should be followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1231	I am returning to the fact that it is a very effective displacement policy. We have an administration that just lets the predatory game problem explode, and a food surveillance that comes after and uses grazing. I want to know, what has the Council of State done exactly? Has he sent a written instruction to the Food Authority that they actually have to deal with what is known in Norwegian law? I agree that animal welfare and all that is important, but there is also the right to grazing and respect for the individual's rights here. There is one of the questions raised: Why has the Storting not been informed that there are such conflicts out there? There has been no information to the Storting that suggests that there are so strong legal principles against each other in this conflict. So I want to know, has the Council sent a written instruction to the Food Authority that threatening grazing is actually something that the Norwegian law has said no to twice, through recent judges?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1238	Firstly, the issues raised here are discussed and discussed in many different contexts of the Storting. With regard to my relationship with the Food Authority and the management instructions they receive from the Ministry, they have been made fully aware of this situation and the case-law in this area – both through written and oral instructions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1249	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘Circa 40 pst. of our agricultural area is rented out to farmers who need more land, which works satisfactorily. A circular says that it is now possible to rent the land further. Will this not affect the right of ownership over its area?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1258	The OECD has indicated that food production needs to be increased by 50 pst. by 2030 to feed a growing population. A long-term and solidarity perspective therefore suggests that tools to contribute to the production of food need to be strengthened. Agriculture is a long-term industry and therefore needs a similar long-term policy. Owners have a large and important responsibility for managing food-producing areas. The obligation to drive is a duty of activity and an important instrument for ensuring the production of food and for maintaining production characteristics. In the summer of 2009, the Stortingeet adopted amendments related to the provisions on compulsory service. The obligation to drive the owner was made permanent. In addition, it was decided that the land must be leased off on contracts of at least 10 years' duration if the owner is not to operate the land himself. The ten-year lease requirement meets the need for long-term sustainability. It provides the lessee with a safer basis for operation and thus also promotes more active agriculture. In circular M-3/2009, and later in circular M-3/2011, the Ministry briefed on the new provisions on compulsory employment and the handling of these cases. Among other things, in order to create more flexible schemes when it comes to crop-changing productions, the Ministry has written in the last round. stressed that the law does not prohibit the possibility of the lease-out of agricultural land. Therefore, if the agreement so permits, the lessee may continue to rent the land for a period of less than 10 years, provided that the land is properly operated. I can't see that the tenant's possibility of subletting here will affect the owner's right to dispose of his area. However, even if the law does not prevent subletting, it is up to the owner to enter into agreements that allow the lessee to rent out the area further. In the last decades, there has been a relatively large increase in land rent in Norway. I believe that the need to strengthen active users through the possibilities of renting additional land will also be an important element in the years to come. This creates flexibility in agriculture and can also be beneficial in view of the good use made of the farm equipment. At the same time, it is a goal that the person who drives the earth should own it as much as possible. I understand that changes made to the regulations on compulsory driving will not solve the rental land problem. In order to achieve greater harmonisation between the property structure and the use structure, I therefore sent letters last summer to the municipalities about the practice of the sharing ban in the law. I'm prepared to look further at this problem with a view to finding a better balance between the land owned and the land rented.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1269	That was a long answer, and I have to read it afterwards to understand everything the council said. But my question was, will this not affect the right of the owner to dispose of his area? I might have got an answer to that in a sentence. What I'm thinking about is, it's good that those who don't have the opportunity to use their own land, rent it out. But what you can question is that it's rented out again to a new tenant, and maybe another tenant. Then much of the right that the original owner has has is gone, and at least to a great extent weakened. So that's what I'm a little bit skeptical about. I have got a lot of telephones about the legality by saying that the person who is renting land has the right to rent it out. This is about, among other things: Fertiliser plans, and this is about economics. It says nothing about the fact that the person who rents the land again on rent can be a little bit more light when it comes to fertiliser plans, the use of the soil or what you get in rent from it, so it can almost be a shop to rent the land and then rent it out again. I don't think the government council or I or anyone else would like to do that. So I want to know a little bit more about the council.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1278	Simplely, if it is to be accepted, the owner must authorise further rental in his lease. That's the principle at the bottom, which gives the owner the necessary right to dispose of his area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1283	Yes, it's okay for a contractor to sign the contract, but in that contract, it doesn't say who the landlord is. It should be such that the person or firm must be approved by the person who originally owns the land. That's what I miss. Those who have contacted me miss the fact that they lose the right to decide who is going to rent, for a rent can go into several stages, and at least it can go over ten years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1288	It's right that we recommend ten years' contracts. That is the requirement of the drive obligation provisions. It is also such that it is open for rent if you need it, for example. in crop rotation production such as vegetable production. So it is that any – and I might stress – rent must be sub-approved by the person who owns the land and who has the original lease. Then it is probably the best answer that good agreements must be drawn up that ensure the responsibility and rights of the owner to dispose of his land, and thus also authorise any sublettors.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1299	My question to the Minister of Labour is as follows: «Women born before 1954 who have been responsible for care for their own children are not currently entitled to pension based on care credits unless they have earned rights to AFP in the private sector. A woman in charge of care for three children aged 15 years in total will lose three pension points for those years. If he had been born after 1954, she would have earned a pension based on caring responsibilities. Will the Council of State take the initiative to amend the legislation and ensure non-discrimination?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1308	Robert Eriksson, representative of Storting, has raised a question related to different rules on the generation of care in today's and new age pension. In today's retirement pension, the pension is fully earned after 40 years and is calculated on the basis of the best 20 years. There is little correlation between income from professional career and retirement, and there is no pension pay-out of work over 40 years. Today's old age pension provides provision for care work in the year from 1992. Through two broad pension agreements, we have introduced a new age pension in the social security area, with all the years of income counting. It ensures that people with equal income from their professional careers get equal pensions, and it gives good incentives to work because it will always pay off. When all years count equally, periods wholly or partly out of work will have greater consequences than before. This is the background to making provision for care even for calendar years before 1992 in the new age pension in the population. This is particularly important for women who have now been fully or partly covered by the new old age pension but who have previously complied with a best-year rule. The current and new old-age pensions consist of different components and have different rules for earning old-age pensions, including the provision of care. As you know, people are born before 1954 in full today's pension, people born in 1963 get a full new pension, while people born in 1954–1962 get a part of a pension from both models. New AFP in the private sector is fully applicable to persons born in 1948 or later and is calculated on the basis of all years of income as in a new age pension. It therefore also provides for provision for years of care before 1992. The rationale for the generation of care before 1992 is the transition to all-year-olds. Since all those who receive such a pension are treated equally, I do not see reason to change the legislation, and I also refer to the broad pension agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1323	Thank you very much for your answer. Let's start with two women born in 1953. One woman has worked in a company with a collective agreement and a right to a private AFP, and the other woman, with the same number of kids, has been at home for the same time, has a similar profession with similar income and jobs in a similar company, which does not have an AFP. What happens is that the woman with the AFP, although she was born in 1953, will have the care allowance based on the benefits she gets in her lifetime AFP supplement, while women who don't have the AFP don't get it. This means that with the new system, AFP will have an additional service of 0.314, one-third of which is subsidised by the government. Does the Council of State consider that some women who have been at home with their children feel strongly unfair that some people receive subsidies for a little extra pension, while others do not?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1332	I really understand the question as a discussion about the AFP, and I am now answering based on the provision of care. The point of this scheme is: the women who based their future pension on the best-year rule and who would therefore presumptuously receive a higher pension, or not the same effect that they were not in work for a few years because of care tasks, have not received a retrospective care compensation, while the women who now receive a pension based on all years, are women who receive a pension after the new social security, and women who receive a pension after the lifetime of the AFP. They get such a suggestion based on the fact that they could otherwise get worse out than expected. But there is no discrimination within this system, for the pension they receive consists of the public interest at the bottom, where they would then not receive such a mark-up, because then it is the best-year rule that applies, and then they get the mark-up in relation to the new AFP.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1341	I thank you again for the answer. I do not agree with the Council of State that there is no discrimination. One can always discuss whether there is a discrimination based on the benefits of popular security. I don't think so. However, with the new system for calculating the AFP, where one third is financed by the government, and where an additional service is provided for all the years before 62 years, it is perceived as a discrimination and a clear discrimination by the return of some with a return on time, while others do not receive any of it. That's what's my main concern, because there's a recognition here that the new model is making worse than the old one. Those with AFP have to be compensated, while other workers don't have to. So does that mean that the Workers' Party distinguishes between citizens, and that there are two types of welfare citizens in this state?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1348	Here, a broad pension settlement has agreed on a device on the AFP. And there's also a system in the private sector where AFP is added over the entire pension cycle. Because it's a pension that's not based on the Best Year rule, but a pension that's based on the entire coverage, you've said, in line with what you've done in this whole system, that then you get such a care compensation, because this is a worse arrangement than that based on the Best Year rule. Who will come out with the best pension here, is a perfectly open question. I don't agree that those who are constantly getting their pension from popular security based on the best-year rule will presumptuously get something worse into retirement than those who get it based on a system of the new scheme. Because that's exactly what we're going to compensate for, that your care years mean so much more to your entire pension. I understand that this is a discussion about how to set up the AFP, and it has also agreed the size of a broad settlement on how to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1357	‘According to Europower No. 11/2010, within its 20-20-20 framework, the EU will invest less in gas and more in coal and nuclear power, where energy resources are to be recovered within EU borders. This may have a significant impact on Norwegian gas exports. What is the government doing to maintain the EU interest in Norwegian gas in their energy system?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1364	As the representative of Solvik-Olsen points out, the European gas market is of great importance to Norway. In 2010, we exported 102 billion m3 of natural gas, most of which to Europe, where Norway covers nearly 20 pst. of the total gas consumption. We are seen as a safe and stable supplier to the European energy market. We're going to keep that position. It is not the role of authorities to be a commercial operator in the market. The individual holder of the Norwegian licence is responsible for disposing of and marketing his share of Norwegian gas and oil. Statoil, for its part, is responsible for disposing of the share of the production of oil and gas by the SEDØE according to the provisioning instructions laid down. The overall task of the government is to ensure high value creation through optimal management of gas resources. This is done by the government by facilitating the effective organisation of the business on a Norwegian base. The work of providing an effective framework covers all stages of the value chain – from exploration, through expansion and operation to the final export of Norwegian gas to the market. The opening-up of new areas, concession policy and the examination of applications are important instruments in this work. Through ownership of the operator company Gassco, the government also focuses on ensuring a well-functioning and flexible gas transport system from Norway to consumer countries. Through this important effort to ensure optimal framework conditions for the activities on Norwegian soil, the government facilitates good competitiveness, efficient resource use and profitability in the gas sector. These are factors that help to strengthen the position of Norwegian gas in Europe. Furthermore, the government has regular and good dialogue with the authorities both at EU level and in individual consumer countries. This is to ensure that the focus on important energy issues is maintained. Gas is the purest of fossil fuels and emits half of the CO2 as much as coal by combustion. The EU can therefore significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions by replacing coal with gas. In addition, natural gas has several advantages as a safe and stable back-up to renewable energy production. As I mentioned earlier, Norway is seen as a safe and stable supplier to the European energy market. By providing effective framework conditions for petroleum activities and good dialogue with our EU counterparts, the government is working to maintain this position. Norwegian gas will also play an important role in European energy supply in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1385	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. Much of what was produced is, of course, well-known, established policy. The challenge and uncertainty are what will happen in the future. I'm not going to expect the government to respond to standing feet, because it's complicated both in terms of what you think about peak oil and peak gas, and what you think about shale gas, which points in the opposite direction, that you have a lot. But it is important for the energy policy that you are going to pursue, not least for the extraction of oil and gas, because it says a little about how to manage resources. If he believes in great scarcity in the short term, it may be both responsible and interesting for Norway to extract the oil and gas quickly, and if he thinks there will be a flood of oil and gas on the market, it may be more interesting to hold back resources. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that the oil notification also provides a good study of this challenge that provides the basis for further Norwegian oil and gas policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1390	The representative of Solvik-Olsen addresses very important issues, which are important for the whole country. Of course, the market situation for our oil and gas products is of great importance not only to the national economy, but too much of the activity taking place along our coast. Nor am I part of being able to predict how the gas market in Europe is going to develop. We've seen in recent years that shale gas has changed the international rules, not least in relation to what has now happened in the United States. We know that there are also large incidences in Europe. What pulls the other way is that Norway is a stable supplier, in contrast to much of what you experience on other sides. In addition, we know that the EU has a great need to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions, and gas is part of the solution. So the sum total I am optimistic on behalf of Norwegian gas suppliers and Norwegian role as an important energy supplier to Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1397	I also have an optimism in myself, but in relation to which policy a leader, and how a dimensional tool use, it is nevertheless important to have a clear view of this. We would assume that Norway wants a good price for this in terms of a high price, even if it should not be unreasonable, so we can praise ourselves. Europe wants a low price. In addition, Europe is about making itself less dependent on imported energy. Now we know that using your own coal or nuclear power is more interesting than using gas, but the CO2 debate is drawing in the opposite direction. The government has chosen to ask Statkraft not to invest in more gas power in the EU, or really anywhere. It sends a signal that we really don't have much to do with our own gas that we sell to the EU and elsewhere. Does the Council of State think it gives good signals to our customers in Europe that our companies should not use that gas in that market?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1407	It is linked to the government's overall government's government's objective of leadership in renewable energy production in Europe. This room has provided the company with significant funds through several rounds over the last years to fulfil this possibility. Of course, it's a strategy I'm behind. As a nation, we are all interested in a stable and good gas market in Europe. We're doing the things I've referred to here to take care of and build that market further. In what Solvik-Olsen's representative took up, there's one thing in particular that I think we should notice, and that's the keyword "security of supply". I believe that security of supply is an undervalued part of the energy policy debate in Europe and that we need to adapt to an image where it is emphasised even more strongly than today from the various European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1414	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-13.ana.ud107e1427	There is no record. The remaining representative in the Chamber will hardly ask for the floor before the meeting is over? The meeting has thus been cancelled.
