ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e73	The representatives of Gunnar Gunnar Gundersen, Oskar J. Grimstad, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Marianne Marthinsen, Trine Skei Grande, Siri A. Meling, Erling Sande, Bjørn Lødemel and Snorre Serigstad Valen, who has been licensed, have again taken the seat. The representative Knut Storberget shall apply for welfare leave from 12 December to 20 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Thor Lillehovde, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e118	Thor Lillehovde is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e126	The representative, Anders B. Werp, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e129	On behalf of André Oktay Dahl, Jan Tore Sanner, Svein Harberg, Bent Höie, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and myself, I have the honour of promoting a proposal for a representative to combat drugs in schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e134	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16.00 until the current map has been processed. The President will also draw attention to the fact that due to the special weather situation we have today, both the Council of State in charge of the environment and the Council of State in charge of oil and energy are at a standstill. However, we have State Council present, so that we are ready to start today's handling of matters. However, in consultation with the chairperson of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, I would suggest that we change the order of business, so that it may be possible for the Minister of Oil and Energy at least to have the opportunity to have a number of parts of the budget debate. In any case, they will receive the budget. The President will therefore propose that we – if Stortinget can agree to it – start by considering case No. 4, then case No. 5, so the case number. 2 and 3, which have been proposed, and then case No. 1, which is the setting of the budget. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. So let's start with case number. 4th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e157	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e166	This matter concerns changes in the law on matrikkel and the law on housing. The background to this is that the tax authorities with their current legislation are prevented from returning to the matrix information provided to the authorities in connection with the declaration, even if this is information that falls within the matrix and could have been publicly available. Therefore, the amendments are made, and they are set out in the law. It is also proposed that the proposition introduce the term ‘matriculate unit’ instead of ‘property’ in the provisions of the Law on Licensing which refer directly to the Law on Matriculation. In addition, a minor error is addressed in the Spatial Data Act. It is a unanimous committee that supports the position on this matter. On the right, there are some ideal objections to the design of the law that they themselves want to present in a short article.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e177	As the rapporteur explained, the Right has some ideal objections to the law as it is now designed. It is about the fact that information currently covered by the tax liability should not be transferred automatically to the matrix, but be based on the needs of the Cartel and an explicit consent to the transfer from the taxpayer. This is in itself a fundamental objection, but we see that the matrix may need the data that this is asking for. We are therefore not going to vote against the law, but we think it is timely to raise this issue in the debate on the proposal. Otherwise, we are very pleased that a joint committee endorses the consultation opinion delivered by the Data Protection Authority and the objection that lies there that taxpayers should be informed in an appropriate way in relation to the transmission of these data.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e186	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1509]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e202	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e211	The change in the agenda came on quickly, but we must be able to take it on a tight arm! When it comes to changes in the law on the squalid environment, there is broad agreement on the need for this. The Committee points out that the conservation of Svalbard’s particular wild-field nature is a key objective of Norwegian svalbard policy, and it is Norwegian policy that environmental concerns should be given priority in the event of conflict with other interests. It is also important to avoid that something is unclear, and to get the same outreach as in the law on the management of natural disasters – the law on natural disasters of 19 June 2009. The Committee believes that the Svalbard Environmental Act and other environmental legislation are important instruments to ensure that the presence and activity of Svalbard takes place within the framework of its specific nature. The Committee is also concerned that traditions on Svalbard, and in particular fishing traditions, are preserved, but based on a viable solution. The traditional fisherman system is a good one and has long traditions that are historically important and that lay the foundation for settlement and income long before the known mineral deposits took over as the most important activity on Svalbard. There is, as I said, a great deal of agreement about these changes, but with some viewpoint on this, with the release and movement of organisms, especially from the Progress Party, which thinks that one must be able to expect an increase in activity against the Arctic regions, for example, with regard to breeding. One indicates that the Ministry’s proposal for changes implies that one must be allowed under the Swallow Environment Protection Act for restocking measures in aquatic and terrestrial species. The progress of the party also indicates that Svalbard Food Association is negative to the proposal and supports the argument that this restriction limits a more versatile business life, which could gain greater width through the possibility of opening up the farming industry to these islands as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e228	When addressing changes in the Swallow Environment Act, it is important to have some important objectives for swallowing policy at the bottom of the changes we are making. The overall objectives of the swallowing policy are known, but I would like to mention them anyway: consistent and firm enforcement of sovereignty proper compliance with the Svalbard Treaty and control of the maintenance and stability of the Treaty in the area of conservation of the area’s special wilderness nature maintenance of Norwegian communities on the island group; This has been going on for a long time, and there is broad political agreement on these objectives. We must be able to say that the management of the archipelago according to these objectives has been very successful, and we hope that it will also be in the future. In Svalbard, as elsewhere in Norway, there are different cross-interests in industrial interests and protection interests, and this will always be the case. The preservation of Svalbard's special wilderness nature is a key objective of Norwegian svalbard policy, and it is Norwegian policy that environmental considerations should be given priority in the event of conflict with other interests. It is also important to avoid ambiguities and to have a similar use of concepts, as in the Nature Diversity Management Act of 19 June 2009. Svalbard and other environmental legislation are the main means of ensuring the presence and activity of Svalbard within the specific nature of Svalbard. At the same time, maintaining a Norwegian society on the island group is an important objective. Therefore, it is also incredibly important to have activities and jobs that ensure this. We all have a responsibility to ensure the positive development of the island group. I believe that the issue we are dealing with today facilitates the continuation of this policy and that we will continue to have different business activities in place in the future, while preserving nature and the environment in a good and effective way. In this way, as has also been said in the past, the main instrument for ensuring the presence and activity of Svalbard is the consideration of the specific nature of Svalbard. In St.meld. No 22 for 2008-2009, the Svalbard Communication, indicates what is needed for the preservation of a Norwegian society on the island group, and this is also the basis for further work. In the case of Svalbard, it is important to have multiple thoughts in your head at the same time. Firstly, it is important to take care of nature and the environment in this unique island group. Secondly, it is also important to develop a business that creates jobs, thereby ensuring our sovereignty over the island group. So in the end, history has shown that a management of the archipelago according to strict requirements has so far worked very well, and that business has done well after that. We want it to continue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e265	For the Right, it is also essential that we have a policy that ensures good conservation of Svalbard's unique wilderness nature. Therefore, the Right agrees that environmental considerations should weigh heavily — and agrees with most of what is proposed in this proposition. The right is also concerned with local self-determination. We are on the mainland, and we are on our swallowing policy. That means we're going against the proposed change in motor travel. We believe from our point of view that today's system seems to have worked well, and the importance of local knowledge and professional insight is well managed by the Employment Manager within the framework of today's legislation. It is also supported by several of the hearing opinions in this case. We're also concerned that Longyearbyen local government should be able to have a room for action and have some increased influence to be able to take individual decisions within its planning area. So the Right Government is asking to come back with an assessment of this question in an appropriate way, and we hope we will meet it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e276	At Svalbard we find some of the most beautiful natural areas in the country. The Arctic landscape, the harsh climate and the special wildlife are a value that must be safeguarded through good and sustainable management of the natural resources of the archipelago. There is a great deal of deal in the Storting both about the value Svalbard represents, and about the importance of taking care of him. At the same time, many people have their bow and act on Svalbard, and many want to experience the island group. The challenge is to balance the desire for an almost pristine environment on the island group with the desire for continued construction and activity. The Svalbard Environmental Act is an important hub in this work. Maintaining the unique wilderness nature is a main objective of Norwegian swallowing policy. The laws, together with other environmental legislation, shall ensure that the activity of the archipelago takes place within the limits of nature. The proposal from the government to change the Svalbard Environmental Act covers several different paragraphs and seeks to ensure an up-to-date and good law, as the case-speaker has suggested. In addition to good information on what laws apply, it is important to ensure that the design of the law is in line with what it is called. A third element is that the law should be available and transparent. The government is looking to consider all three of these elements of the proposal we are dealing with today. The party supports the proposed changes. We want to take care of nature and cultural memory at Svalbard. At the same time, it is an important goal for the Center Party that there should be construction and activity on Svalbard in the future as well. In the long term, there must be other things than coal drift that keep up the activities of Svalbard. Supervision, care and management of the vast natural areas, a resilient travel life and an additional strengthening of education and research are examples of important pillars on which to build the Svalbard community in the future. In addition, there must also be spaces for other types of business. Today's carbon resources won't last forever. It is therefore important that we start the work and discussion of how the Svalbard community will evolve. The geographical position of Svalbard in the north also gives Svalbard an important symbol role in climate context. According to research, the northernmost constructions we have are presented by the Mountain Centre in the first places that will experience a temperature increase of 2 °C, and that could result in significant changes in the climate that result from it. It will therefore be important, precisely with a legal background, to ensure a development on Svalbard that gives, and sustains, this important role Svalbard has in both nature and climate contexts. Today's decision builds up in such a development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e293	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox Let's move on to case No. Two and three. [[Fotation, see page 1510]] At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole, and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e324	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e333	The red-green government has concluded an agreement with the government of Sweden on a common green electricity market between countries, a common certificate market, which will provide the basis for significant investments in renewable electricity in both Norway and Sweden. In total, Sweden and Norway shall deploy 26.4 TWh renewable energy from 2012 to 2020. There is a significant increase in power production of about 10 pst. of current generation capacity in countries, corresponding to the consumption of 1.3 million households, with an average consumption of 20000 kWh per household. With such a common Norwegian-Swedish certification market Norway and Sweden choose to build wind power, water power and power generation based on bioenergy. The introduction of an electric certificate will be an important tool for Norway to meet its renewable energy production obligations in accordance with the EU renewable directive. The Renewables Directive aims to establish a common framework to promote the use of energy from renewable energy sources in EU countries. Each Member State shall contribute by meeting separate targets for the share of renewable energy of total energy use by 2020, in order to contribute to the overarching of the EU target of 20 pst. renewable energy. The Directive sets a comprehensive Norwegian renewable component target of 67,5 pst. in 2020. Electric certificates will lead to a large amount of new electricity. Therefore, we need to develop a robust domestic electricity network and between Norway and the rest of the world. Strengthening transfers abroad is necessary to manage the increase in power. New external relations shall be based on socio-economic profitability, taking into account the impact on the power market, security of supply, the environment, the power system and the need for more domestic networks. Norway is currently part of a European and Nordic power market, and especially in dry years we are dependent on imports of power to ensure satisfactory security of supply. The development of new capacity between Norway and the rest of the world must benefit Norwegian consumers and businesses, as it does through strengthened security of supply and through incentives for investment in new power generation. Exports of pure renewable energy from Norway can also contribute to an energy conversion in countries that currently rely on coal power, thus also providing a positive climate effect. Thus, the electricity certificate market is a formidable investment in renewable power generation. The scheme will further strengthen Norway as a priority country in the field of renewable energy deployment. The start-up of the electricity certificate market takes place on 1 January 2012 and cooperation will last until 2035. Such long-term cooperation provides a good, stable framework for industry and industrial workplaces. The law deals with the Stortinget in June this year. It is now a co-consensual committee which concludes the agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e359	It is almost eight years since the Bondevik II government produced the first bill on a single electricity licence market with Sweden. The plan was to have it ready on 1 January 2007 – five years before we actually want to achieve this goal. Today's government has taken a good time in the negotiations and has ended up with a result that to confusion looks like the same government rejected in February 2006. It is regrettable that the government did not conclude the negotiations seven years ago. This has resulted in many good renewable projects being put on hold or abandoned altogether. The power situation in Norway has changed since 2004. Then the curtain was a significant power loss, and the forecasts showed that this would increase in the years to come. Today, most people agree that Norway and the Nordic countries are heading for a significant surplus of power. Nevertheless, where there is broad agreement to contribute to triggering new renewable energy production in Norway, there is a need to be seen in the context of our climate policy ambitions and the EU's demand for increased renewable share in Norway. Leading actors in the power market believe that the Nordic region will have a power surplus up to 40 TWh by 2020. This provides increased security of supply for Norway, but also opportunities for environmentally friendly industrial development, increased exchange of power with our neighbouring European countries and the possibility of replacing fossil energy sources in Norway with renewables. The Renewables Directive sets an overall target for Norway’s renewable share of 67.5 pst. in 2020. In unanswered letters to the Committee, the Council of State stated that Norway’s renewable share was 61,9 p.m. in 2008 and 64,9 pst. in 2009. The share of renewables is likely to decrease slightly in 2010 compared to 2009. Nevertheless, Norway has a very good starting point for achieving the renewable target in 2020, providing our potential for increased renewable energy production, energy efficiency improvement and energy conversion. In light of this, a measure of 67.5 pst. the renewable share in 2020, not particularly ambitious, and with the phasing-in of electricity certificates from 1 January 2012, it should be relatively easy to reach. However, the government cannot use our good starting point as a sleeping cushion. Climate agreement commitments can only be achieved by significantly reducing the use of fossil energy, which in turn requires more renewable energy and more efficient use of the energy sources we already have. If the government is to meet the national greenhouse gas cut requirements of the climate agreement, it is likely that it will be necessary to over-comply with the requirements of the renewable directive. In this context, it is worth mentioning that an increase in the renewable share in addition to the EU's renewable targets can be sold to other countries that do not have the same prerequisites for achieving their renewable targets as Norway has. Thus, we have both economic and climate policy reasons to trigger as much as possible of Norway’s renewable potential, regardless of the EU 2020 target. But it doesn't matter. Norway should have better instruments for energy efficiency improvement and energy conversion. Today, Norway is the only country in Europe with no clear energy efficiency improvement targets. At the same time, we know that the most environmentally friendly energy is the one that's not being used. Enova’s instruments are not sufficient to trigger the high energy saving potential of public and private building and housing masses. Alternative instruments should be investigated and implemented, such as: tax deductions for an additional measure, white certificates or an extended aid scheme, similar to that of the Municipality of Oslo. Another important factor in triggering the renewable potential of Norway is a reduction in the length of proceedings in the NVE and the Ministry of Oil and Energy. More than 600 small power plants are waiting for concession in NVE. Six years of treatment is not uncommon, and if the case is appealed to the Ministry of Oil and Energy, new years may be expected. This may be the biggest bottleneck in increasing renewable energy production right now. This is serious, because Norway is going to finance 13.2 TWh in the electricity licence market, regardless of whether production actually takes place in Norway or Sweden. However, with the duration of the NVE’s proceedings, there is reason to fear that Norway will not be able to deliver half of its electricity production on this side of the cold, and that Norwegian taxpayers are thus financing power generation in Sweden that should have come to Norway. This is a national match Norway is not equipped to win – neither is it, to say the same. For consumers, this plays a small role, as we have a common electricity market with Sweden, but for the business community in Norway, long processing times represent lost opportunities. Another bottleneck is the capacity of the power grid, both domestically and abroad. Important connections have unfortunately taken disproportionate time to get in place, including: due to lack of pre-work and weak anchoring in the communities concerned. Policy needs to be changed. It is also worth noting that Statnet has notified the suspension and cancellation of important foreign connections. This is very unfortunate for the further development of Norway as a green battery in northern Europe and sends out completely wrong signals to key decision-makers, especially in Germany and the United Kingdom. It is difficult to imagine that Statnet's reverse operation is not politically motivated and initiated. I would therefore like to say to the Council of State that, during periods of profit and lack of capacity during periods of deficit, there is no aid for anyone, whether for producers, businesses or households. It's just a socio-economic and a miserable business economy. The Government rightly states that compliance with the Renewable Directive will be the most demanding in the transport sector. The Directive prescribes an independent target of 10 pst. renewable share by 2020. If we are to achieve this, action must be taken here as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e399	The size currently addresses two complementary issues, namely a single market with Sweden for electricity certificates and the EU renewable directive. The measure deals with this Directive and will give its consent to its inclusion in the EEA Agreement. The EU renewable directive covers electricity, heating, cooling and transport. Each Member State has submitted its expected contributions. As in most energy sectors, Norway has little difficulty in complying with the Directive’s requirements for a renewable share of 67.5 pst. for electricity production. The 2009 level was 64.9 pst. A single electricity certificate market with Sweden estimates a renewable energy increase of 26.4 TWh by the end of 2020. The certification scheme that the Storting will adopt today will be an important instrument for achieving the target of 67,5 p.m. renewable electricity production by 2020. Norway undertakes to pay electricity certificates for 13,2 TWh, regardless of how much is produced in Norway. For this reason, it is therefore important that the processes leading to the development of renewable energy are initiated as soon as possible. The NVE case-handling time and the Ministry of Oil and Energy need to be significantly reduced if the objective of 13,2 TWh is to be achieved by the end of 2020. It is also important to note that each party can decide whether installations that enter into operation after 2020 should be included in the scheme, provided that no electricity certificates are issued later than the end of 2035. This mechanism should be used by Norway since the treatment of concessions takes a very long time. Other areas of energy saving include energy efficiency improvement and energy conversion. In these areas, Norway has a significant potential, which should be better monitored in the future. Finally, I would like to point out that there has been a great deal of consensus in the Committee, and that is gratifying, because these two issues are very important for the development of renewable energy production in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e416	In the future, Norway’s renewable share of the energy mix will be even higher than it is today. It is both because we are blessed with access to a lot of renewable, clean hydropower, and we have a great potential for wind power and other renewable energy, and because the government will facilitate more renewable energy. We do this both by including the renewable directive – with the Norwegian obligations it brings and implies – and by establishing the common green licence market with Sweden. The government has a strong and coherent renewable energy policy. An online message will soon be provided to address our future needs for a robust and secure central network. Although the opposition is very concerned about about 5 TWh with wind power that has been turned down because of obvious environmental considerations, they are not as often occupied with the 10 TWh with new wind power to which a concession has already been granted. The NVE has been strengthened in recent years to limit the length of the procedure. I agree with the representative, Skumsvoll, that it is important to ensure this, and with the launch of this common certification market, we ensure Norway's leadership in the field of renewable energy, both for home use and for interactions with other countries. It is important to see renewable energy, climate and energy savings in the context. When we gradually solve the power problems, e.g. in my home region of Central Norway, where the construction of the Ormen Lange by the Bondevik government has had disastrous consequences, it is a sign that Norway is on its way into a surplus of power. Then smart power grids and good interaction with our neighbouring countries are important. That was one of the things we in the Norwegian delegation to the Durban climate summit talked a lot to our colleagues from the Nordic countries about, and that is something they want to talk to us more about in the future. At that time, continued efforts to save energy are important. We have a huge potential for energy saving in Norway. The work on smart power grids in the municipality of Malvik in Sør-Trøndelag, for example, shows that only the introduction of smart power savings, which are made possible by two-way communications in the network, produces much greater power than the mobile gas power stations in readiness there. Therefore, it is also gratifying that we are accelerating the construction of smart grids in Norway, and that it will only come into place in one of the most badly hit regions, namely in central Norway. In order to ensure the profitability of renewable energy and enhanced energy saving, the profits we get from renewable energy, the profits we get from future power, must be used to electrify sectors that are currently fossil. I notice that while I was away at the climate summit, the spokesperson of the Progress Party, Per-Willy Amundsen, said that it is realistic to electrify large parts of the Norwegian base. I wonder about that a little bit. Then the representative Amundsen cannot have found out that we have already electrified Gjøa, Valhalla and Troll, and will electrify the future Goliath, but also that we have electrified projects that it might not have been of, for power reasons, such as. Worm Lange. We get the greatest climate impact from the construction of new renewable energy if it is used to replace energy that is fossil today. There will be a very important contribution to Norwegian climate policy in the coming years, and there is a good safety measure on Norwegian soil. The transport sector is another sector where we have to be ambitious in the future. Modern electric cars cover a very large proportion of everyday driving needs in Norway. In addition to good framework conditions for purchasing an electric car, which the government has provided through the conversion of incentives within the car charging system, it is a robust network and good supply of electricity that is important to achieve it. In the future, we will also be able to interact between the cars that people use and the power grid that provides even better energy efficiency. Larger transport also has a large potential, within e.g. biogas. As a result, the government's work on climate communication is important in this sector. It is true, as the representative from the Right says, that it should not be too difficult to meet the commitments that Norway has taken on by the renewable directive. However, it is important to use the opportunities and tools provided by the Green Certificate Market and the Renewable Directive and the commitment to climate-friendly policies. It is not a shame if we are able to over-achieve the commitments and objectives, it is on the contrary that I think we should take the measure of ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e443	For the Centre Party, the effort to facilitate renewable energy is entirely central. The world is facing major climate and energy challenges in the years to come, and Norway has large resources within renewable energy in the form of water, wind and bio. We need to move from the fossil energy society to the renewable. We have good – not to say the best – intentions to contribute to this transition. Exploiting more of renewable resources to create renewable energy will not only be the right environmental policy, it will also create values, activity, jobs and knowledge. Sometimes it is right to go beyond the market itself to stimulate new technologies or environmentally friendly production. Schemes that can stimulate the renewable sector are therefore important to the Centre Party and important to the Government. Against this background, it was very important for the Centre Party to put in place a green certificate market. It is very gratifying that the Stortinget today agrees to the conclusion of an agreement between Norway and Sweden. Such a single certificate market has been negotiated for the first time by two countries. 26.4 TWh is a highly renewable power, a power that will provide domestic power, help prevent future power crises, it is power that can be further processed or used in new markets, and it is hoped that power supplies can also help to replace more impure power generation elsewhere. There is a high potential for value creation in the production of this renewable power. Production will take place throughout the country and facilitate employment and skills development. The initiative could contribute to increasing the focus on research and development in this sector and increase access to power which could also have a positive impact on existing and new industries. The agreement between Norway and Sweden on green certificates will mean great potential for our country, but it will also bring some challenges. One of them is net, because having a large potential for renewable energy production does not help if one does not have infrastructure to produce this new energy. Upgrading and strengthening at all web levels and increasing network deployment are an important strategy. It could mean more big kraftlines – yes, that would mean it. The government must be commended for such a clear reference to the need for this network infrastructure and must point out that it is necessary even if it is visible in the landscape. It is not possible to be at the barriers to the production of renewable energy, but to be against the infrastructure to bring this energy forward, as some voices in the debate seem to give an impression. The agreement with Sweden will also challenge us on concession management. It requires increased focus and increased efforts in the directorate and department, ensuring that these issues are dealt with in time, and that one realises the facilities needed to produce renewable energy. The establishment of a green certificate market will also make it easier for Norway to achieve the objectives that we are now adopting for the renewable component of the energy mix as a result of its renewable directive. Like Norway, the EU is making an effort in the field of climate change, and several directives adopted by the European Union have implications for Norway through the EEA Agreement. The central party’s position in respect of both Norwegian EU and EEA membership is well known. However, the work done by the EU in the renewable field is important for global climate action, and the commitments given by Norway under the renewable directive will contribute to the same. The central party believes the goal of a renewable component of 67.5 pst. is well within reach. Norway has large resources within renewable energy and large potential to benefit from them. The developments that the Renewable Directive is now contributing to are in line with the programme formulations that we in the Centre Party have in our programme and that we had worked to ensure that Norway was introduced – regardless of the directive that might come from the EU. The transport component of the directive will need a targeted and reinforced effort to secure the renewable component to which we have committed ourselves. Here, the link to renewable energy production and the effort to use more electricity in the transport sector, as well as continuing to strengthen the electricity car deployment we have in Norway, is an important step. Let me end by commending the government and the state councils that have done a great deal of work to bring forward the common certificate market with Sweden. With it, a milestone has been reached in the work on renewables and a system that can mean a lot in the years to come, both for employment, value creation, technology development and climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e471	The Bondevik II government started work early in the 2000s to establish a common Norwegian-Swedish market for green certificates for electricity production. The aim of this work was to increase the focus on renewable energy. In St.meld. No 18 for 2003–04 announced the start of a single market from 1 January 2006. However, green certificates were scrapped as an instrument shortly after the entry of the red-green government in 2005. Following a failed attempt to establish an alternative renewable energy support scheme, the climate agreement agreed that the government would resume negotiations with Sweden on a common green certificate market. The Government has now reached agreement with Sweden on the creation of a single market for green certificates from 1 January 2012, and today the Storting finally agrees with this agreement. However, the entry into force of the agreement presupposes that the so-called renewable directive is in place. The EU renewable directive shall ensure that 20 pst. energy consumption in Norway is renewable by 2020. In addition, there will be a binding target of 10 pst. renewable share in transport. It covers electricity, heating, cooling and transport. To achieve the renewable energy share target of 20 pst. in the EU by 2020, each EU country has been allocated binding national targets on how much each country needs to increase its renewable share in final energy consumption. Today, Norway has a renewable share of 60 p.p., thanks to its large-scale hydropower expansion in the last century. This is the highest renewable share in Europe, but if our oil business on a Norwegian base had been counted, the renewable share would have been only 42 pst. The EU method of calculation in the Directive would require Norway to increase the renewable share by 14-15 percentage points, i.e. a renewable share between 64 pst. and 75 pst. Indeed, the intention of the Directive is that all countries must contribute a great deal, regardless of the renewable share they already have. However, the Christian People's Party is pleased that the government has reached agreement with the EU on an overall target for Norway's renewable share of 67,5 p.m. by 2020. Norway has a significant potential for increased renewable energy production, energy efficiency improvement and energy conversion. In light of this, a measure of 67.5 pst. renewable share not particularly ambitious by 2020, and with the phasing-in of electricity certificates from 1 January 2012, it should be relatively easy to reach. In the climate agreement, the government has already committed itself to climate objectives that can only be achieved by significantly reducing the use of fossil energy, which in turn requires an increased share of renewable energy and a more efficient use of energy. As the climate agreement underpins government policy and government parties have a majority in the Stortinget, the Christian People's Party assumes that the renewable directive is being over-implemented by the government, as the representative Serigstad Valen also spoke of earlier in this debate. An increase in the renewable share in addition to the EU's renewable targets can be sold to countries that do not have the same prerequisites for achieving their targets as Norway has. The Renewables Directive sets an autonomous target for a renewable share of 10 pst. in the transport sector in Norway by 2020. Norway has a long way to go. Today, electric cars represent only 0.1 percentage points, rail, T-Bahn and trams representing 1 percentage point, and biofuels cars account for between 3 and 4 percentage points of total transport in Norway. Overall, all these factors represent a renewable share in the transport sector of between 4 and 5 percentage points. This means that by 2020 we have taken on an obligation to double this agreement over the next 12 years. Here we have a lot to go after, and here it has to be a big bet if the decision we are making today is not just to be a paper decision, but a reality in people's lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e488	Just a few brief comments, for the left is of course happy that we can finally adopt and get power certificates. As many people have experienced, energy construction requires many years of planning and money use up to a complete development plan. It is therefore urgent to put in place the framework conditions for renewable energy that trigger development, so that Norway will not be lagging behind in terms of moving from fossil to renewable energy and in terms of meeting the objectives of the renewable energy directive. I have spent time on this before here in Stortinget, but I want to say it again: the left still does not understand how it is possible for the government to spend time and effort negotiating Norway’s renewable commitments in the negotiations with the EU – time and forces that should have been used to bring down greenhouse gas emissions in Norway, in accordance with a climate settlement they have agreed to sign. But it is, and now at least an agreement with the EU is in place. The left is satisfied with the fact that there is now a total collapse that recognises that the market is the best engine to put in place a renewable investment in Norway. The prices on the electricity certificates are determined by the market. If a high level of renewable energy is produced, the price will be low, but if there is insufficient capacity to meet the policy objectives, the demand for green certificates will be higher than the supply. This will lead to an increase in price and thus make it more profitable to invest in renewable electricity production. This is good after Left's view. However, a large majority here in Stortinget believe that some actors should not be involved in this fissure layer. The majority believe that large parts of the industry should not pay the real price of energy, and therefore want the entire bill to be pushed over to normal customers. As a result, Norwegian consumers will have to pay more to avoid industry. There's a lot of energy here. For the Left, it's an important principle that the polluter should pay, and we would also have thought that was important for some other parties here at Stortinget. We therefore do not understand that this principle should not apply in this context, and we suggest that this should be corrected in the course of proceedings earlier this year without having a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e503	In the absence of the oil and energy minister, I am delighted to say a few words about the important matter that Stortinget is dealing with today. The size should therefore give its consent to Norway's participation in the EEA Committee's decision to include the renewable directive in the EEA Agreement and in the agreement between Norway and Sweden on a common electricity certificate market. The purpose of the Renewable Directive is to ensure long-term cooperation in Europe to promote the production and consumption of renewable energy. The Directive establishes a common framework and sets binding national targets. The objective is for the EU to have a share of renewable energy of 20 pst in 2020. of total energy consumption. This is a significant increase from 2005 where the share of renewable energy in the EU was around 8.5 pst. The establishment of binding targets and a clear strategy are intended to provide predictability and long-term stability in the policy area. These are important prerequisites for actors to be willing to invest in renewable energy and to develop the required technology. In Norway, the target is 67,5 pst. renewable energy in 2020. This Norwegian target is clearly the highest in Europe and is ambitious for several reasons. Firstly, when the share of renewable energy is initially high, as in Norway, a significant increase in renewable production per year is required only in order to maintain that share, given that total energy consumption is increasing. To achieve the target of 67.5 pst. it will with an average growth in energy consumption of 0,5 pst. an increase in renewable production of around 30 TWh per year is required. This is a lot of energy. Secondly, we have been pursuing an active energy conversion policy for many years. Many of the low-cost measures have already been implemented. Among other things, the energy conversion policy of Enova has been aimed at achieving the greatest possible energy result for the funds made available. The same applies in other areas of energy conversion policy. The use of oil for heating purposes has been greatly reduced by active policies in recent years. We will continue to invest in energy conversion and energy efficiency improvement, but there is uncertainty about how much this will affect our renewable share. Thirdly, other countries can significantly increase their renewable share by replacing fossil-based power generation with renewable energy. We cannot do that in Norway. Here comes almost the whole power generation from renewable energy. The goal of increasing renewable energy production in Norway is an important part of our government’s energy and climate policy. Increased renewable production in Norway requires predictability and stability of the framework conditions, as well as good and efficient processes to produce new projects. An important instrument to achieve the goal of increasing renewable share is the electricity certificate market we are now establishing with Sweden. The Renewables Directive opens up cooperation mechanisms so that a country can finance deployment in another country to achieve the renewables target in 2020. A single certificate market between Norway and Sweden is an example of such a cooperation mechanism. The aim of the agreement with Sweden is to ensure the development of new renewable power generation by 2020. Through the electricity licence market, Norway and Sweden aim to expand a total of 26.4 TWh new electricity production based on renewable energy sources in 2020. The common system has started on 1 January 2012 and will last until April 2036. The ETS is a long-term investment that requires stable frameworks for many years to come. The agreement with Sweden sets out how a number of elements of this cooperation are to be addressed. The agreement contains detailed provisions on the functioning of the certificate market and will bind the countries together in long-term and close cooperation. Through the electricity certificate market, new renewable electricity generation installations will receive an income from the sale of electricity certificates in addition to the income from the sale of electricity. The Electrical Certificate System provides a unique opportunity for the Norwegian power industry to implement projects. In addition to the certificate market, the continuation of Enova’s instrument use in the fields of energy efficiency improvement, increased use of renewable heat and full scale demonstration of new energy solutions will contribute to the achievement of the renewable target. We also assume that the target of a renewable share of 10 pst. in the transport sector. The objective is the same for all EU countries. For Norway, the use of biofuels and electricity in the transport sector will be increased. After we get these two important milestones in place, the implementation phase comes. This means the further development of national policies, an action plan and further international cooperation on renewable energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e526	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e530	It was agreed in 2004 that all those building renewable installations after 2004 would be included in the certification scheme when it was introduced. Approximately 160 plants were built between 2004 and 2009. However, the Government has decided that only installations have been built after September 2009 that are part of the certification system. My question is: does the Council of State think that those who built installations between 2004 and 2009 have been poorly treated by the red-green government when they are not allowed to participate in the certification system?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e539	The topic raised by the representative, Mr Skumsvoll, is to the extent of a well-known discussion, but I ask for an understanding that my time to prepare this debate has been limited. I therefore do not think it is right for me to go into too many details about the answers from the Ministry of Oil and Energy. I would rather encourage the representative to send in a written question and get answers from the oil and energy minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e544	Let me thank the Council of State for his contributions, which were informative and good. I have two questions. One is: can the Stortinget assume that the financing basis for the green certificates will be similar in Norway and Sweden? The second question is what the Council of State said in its statement, namely that he requires an increase in energy consumption every year in the future. To what extent is energy efficiency improvement part of this picture? The Arnstad Committee has previously pointed to a significant energy efficiency potential of 10 TWh in private households alone. Does the Council take this into account in its prediction of an increase in energy consumption in the coming years, or will the Arnstad Committee's potential remain unresolved when we reach 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e553	I thank the representative for his good questions. At the same time, I just have to answer the same thing as I did to the previous questioner, that my ability to answer these questions is limited right now, so I would like to encourage them to also be put in writing to the oil and energy minister.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e558	In the matter we are now dealing with, both the representative from the Right, the representative from the SV and I have suggested that the renewable directive and our share of renewable energy on the Norwegian side should be over-fulfilled. My first question is, how does the Council of State feel about such over-fulfillment when we have such a good starting point? My other question is about the part of the renewable directive relating to the transport sector. There we have to have a double over the next eight years. Governments pointed out that biofuels and electricity will become important here. Can the Council of State say a little about what measures the government will take? He pointed to an action plan on this – when will it be put in place, so that it can be doubled within eight years?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e567	As I said in my post, the government has taken on ambitious targets for increasing the renewable share, both with this and through the conclusion of the Great Britain today. I'm very happy about that. When it comes to just how far we can reach, and the question of possible over-fulfillment, it is natural for the Minister of Oil and Energy to come back. The responsibility of the transport sector to reduce total Norwegian emissions and to convert into new energy sources is large and important. Without the contribution of the transport sector, Norway will not achieve the objectives we have set. The government has a wide range of instruments both on the energy side and on the transport sector. In the case of the action plan linked e.g.: for the phase-in of new types of fuel, I also think I have to refer to the Minister of Oil and Energy and ask for the question to be raised in writing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e578	This means that the cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e583	The reason I drew myself on the list of speakers was a rather incomprehensible and small continuous attack that came from SV's Snorre Serigstad Valen about electrification of the socket. The starting point of the party has always been as follows: if one is to electrify in an extension, it is an assessment that the companies themselves have to make on a financial basis. The petroleum industry itself has to make the business economic assessments of whether it is reasonable, rational. Nor is it a cost that can be passed on to the power customers. The additional costs of such electrification must be borne by the builder. What's a bit of the representative of Serigstad Valens, SV's – really this government’s – problem, is the ideological nutrition you seem to have chosen regarding electrification of the socket. On the other hand, the Progress Party provides a basis for cost-benefit assessment. It has to be that if you want to electrify, you also have to include the costs in that calculation. The calculations made for Snow White, which was a concrete example here, show that electrification that could cost as much as over 10 billion. Norwegian Krone. This will mean a cost of approx. NOK 1 918 per tonne of CO2 – an expensive way to reduce CO2 emissions, especially when we know that CO2 allowances can be purchased in the EU system at a much cheaper price. We're actually talking about 20 times more expensive. Then it's a little strange that this government, and in particular SV, has this ideological approach. One would think that if you want to reduce CO2 emissions and apply society's money to it, you have to take the cuts where you get the most effect. That must be the principle. In all other contexts, there is a principle in the Storting and all rational economic activities are based on the fact that the impact and the results are what should be crucial – not ideology, not symbolism policy, but results. I record that the Progress Party is at least a very clear voice in this area, as opposed to, in particular, SV. We use diet–benefits, rather get SV to operate with its symbol policy and continue what will actually lead to less CO2 savings per spent crown.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e609	It is a paradox that 1.3 million households could have enjoyed pure renewable energy instead of imported power based also on coal. The phase-in of 26.4 TWh new electricity production in the Nordic region could have contributed to this if this government hadn't thrown away so many years. In Middle Norway, we have had record high electricity prices in this period. We have invested billions in two mobile gas plants in the same period as one has chosen not to go for a certification scheme that could have phased in and given us good, renewable power. But we'll see ahead and see what's going on to be able to phase in these 26.4 TWh as soon as possible. One of the provisions here is that the NVE will be given the necessary help to reduce the processing time in order to start the construction of the new power plants that will be in the licensing system. It is absolutely necessary that the Council of State should focus on this particular piece above all in order to avoid many of the power plants not being completed within the period of operation of the certification scheme. It's important that one has the necessary focus there. Then, unfortunately, it is also so that many developers feel tricked by this government that simply did not get hold of the certification system, so that some people lose it. For many, it was a commitment to get a positive economy out of bet and investment. It is also the responsibility of this government, and it is regrettable at a time when this government is leading the world in terms of climate and climate challenges. The certification system, new and pure production that this implies, would be one of the good tools in that context. This tool does not power this government to use as early as they could, and it is only their responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e616	The right is pleased that we finally put a sentence in order to introduce the electricity licence market together with Sweden, and that we are now also going to be part of the renewable directive. The electricity certificate market with Sweden was put in the drawer by the government of Stoltenberg in its time, among other things. because one then considered that Norwegian consumers would receive a disproportionate bill in connection with the financing of that market. That's exactly what we're getting in many ways now, because Norway and Norwegian consumers are going to pay for half of the volume to come by 2020, i.e. that we will finance 13,2 TWh new renewable production. Making sure that investments are made in Norway and not in Sweden, that Norwegian electricity customers are not going to finance investments in Sweden, must be of general importance to Norway. Knowing the challenges we face in terms of the time it takes to process applications for new energy production, when we know the time it takes to process applications for new infrastructure, which is absolutely necessary to achieve more production, it is clear that we have quite major challenges, and there is a need to find solutions to this. The government itself has announced that they will provide an overall energy message that will in many ways capture these questions, after a NOU is presented early in 2012. Maybe we'll get a big message in autumn 2012, maybe only in 2013, and it's too late for the challenges we're facing to secure the framework conditions for producing more renewable energy. We need to bring down the concession treatment time. We know that the NVE has been given large resources to double its processing capacity. So anyway, it takes six years to get a concessional application. And then there's appeal treatment, which can take a year or two, as well. So we need to strengthen that part of the work to facilitate that renewable investment actually comes to Norway. Another fundamental prerequisite for this to happen is that there is a market for this new production, and then the way we connect to larger markets abroad, is important to make it even profitable in this kind of initial investment. So here, too, we're calling for a stronger government profile and an increased speed in getting infrastructure built.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e625	This was a slightly clarifying response from the Progress Party and the representative Amundsen. It is an interesting signal from the Progress Party that – as I understand the representative Amundsen – it is the companies and companies alone that are to assess and determine the form of power supply to the oil installations. I wonder if I should interpret it as that Amundsen and the Advance Party want to change the law in this area. This is in so far as an echo of the Petroleum Policy of the Advance Party over several decades. It is the belief that less public governance and ownership are the way to go, ranging from ownership to concrete fields to many years of proposals to put down Petroleum Control and integrate it into the Labour Inspectorate. That's what it is to be blinded by ideology. Not to recognise the need to reduce emissions from Norwegian pedestal is, of course, in the overall relationship of the Progress Party with climate policy – I believe, and suspect – and we may want to clarify the views of the new climate policy spokesman on anthropogenic climate change during the next debate. Electrification of the socket is not an ideological question, it's a climate policy question, it's an energy policy question, and it's an HMS policy question. The representative, Amundsen, may well dismiss the discussion by saying that everyone other than the Progress Party is blinded by ideology, but that criticism must then also affect the Climate and Pollution Directorate, which in a letter recently writes: ‘However, Clif believes that electrification of Hammerfest LNG is an acceptable cost measure in relation to other measures to reduce CO2 emissions and meet Norway’s national climate change objective. Therefore, Clif will recommend that CO2-free energy supply to Melkøya be considered in the context of further expansion either for the first stage of development... or for Train II.» Does the representative, Amundsen, think that the Climate and Pollution Directorate, too, in its assessments, is blinded by SV's ideology?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e644	Despite a sluggish speech by the previous representative, there is a happy debate we have today. We finally adopt green certificates after many years of suspension and training from the government. This is important for the predictability of Norwegian renewable energy production. The principles at the bottom here are in line with the principles the Progress Party said should apply when we wrote our comments in 2004. In this sense, we are very happy, especially because we know that in recent years the government has changed its policy to meet the principles of the Advance Party and accept them. The Soria Moria I statement is why we did not have this debate in 2006, but had to wait for six years, because SV was able to make it clear that hydropower was not initially included in green certificates. Now there's hydropower with it, that's very good. I am glad that SV lost and has swallowed the defeat, so that we can now move on. However, it is important, if this is to be a success, that the power situation in Norway and Sweden be treated equally. It is the sad part of this agreement that indicates that we do not get it. Although we're saying that we're going to divide the objectives and set them up to a great extent, we know that there are differences. When, for example: for the end period, the Swedes are more flexible. If you're lucky and you come up with a project about e.g. two years, the probability of one being realised in Norway will be small, while it will be large in Sweden, because the Swedes are flexible at the end. We should remember what the Minister of Oil and Energy said recently in the energy magazine Europower, namely that those who have not already started applying for a concession are unlikely to be able to complete the process until the certificate period is completed. That means they're going to the Swedes. The fact that the government doesn't take this seriously and make changes, I find it very regrettable. The second part is about whether concession treatment is fast enough. In the last week of today's Business, we have seen the conflict between the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environment, where the NVE and OED say that the Ministry of Environment is a plug in the system. It can't be like that; the government has to clean up. As far as the mains are concerned, it is very good that Snorre Serigstad Valen and others say this is important, but we should remember that Statnet was in Ålesund in May 2006 and said that the power line to Mid-Norway could be in place in the autumn of 2011. Statnett could build it, but the government has not got its finger out. Now it's autumn 2011, and you haven't started building yet. So for electrification. The progress is too electrification when it makes sense, but when it costs the shirt, we're against it. There should be no news for Snorre Serigstad Valen. But this is about using the hydropower to replace fossil energy with low efficiency first. Norwegian gas power plants are reasonably effective, and in a cost-benefit assessment it is pointless to replace modern gas power plants while continuing to drain coal power on the continent. It's like wanting to fight hunger by producing goose liver rather than growing rice and potatoes for the poor countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e661	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. Then we go to case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 1509]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e679	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 10 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers for each group and up to five lines, with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e690	The recently held climate summit in Durban, South Africa, gave rise to an agreement to prevent collapsing in international climate work and gave rise to – albeit very, very cautious – optimism in climate action. Preventing an increase in the global average temperature of more than 2 °C is the biggest challenge facing the human race now, and all countries will have to contribute to this work if one is to be closed. The transition from the fossil to the renewable energy community includes: depending on a targeted commitment to research and development and a strong increase in the production of renewable energy, cf. the last thing we're dealing with in this room. The red-green government has been betting heavily along both of these axes. In addition, the government has played an offensive role internationally through extensive rainforest management, active participation in the design of international climate change systems and, not least, a clear signal of willingness to contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions, both at home and abroad. The proposal to the State budget builds up under the energy and environmental policy heading that the red-green government has pointed out. The offensive commitment to renewable energy, energy conversion and technology development is continuing, even within an appropriate budget. Only in the year we're in, it was realized close to 1 TWh more hydropower. There was a concession grant of 1.3 TWh with wind power and for a district heating project with the potential for energy production corresponding to 1 TWh. This is a lot of energy, and in the years to come the bets will be even heavier. For the Central Party, it has always been important to point to the potential that lies just in the transition to a greener economy through the development of technology and the realisation of jobs and activities resulting from it. Norwegian petroleum industry is not only very important for the Norwegian economy and employment, but also a glistening example of how a conscious strategic effort is driving new knowledge and technology, and that the sale of just this knowledge and technology itself can become an important industry. We need to use the example of the petroleum industry and some of the huge revenues this industry provides to continue to bring forward new technologies through a strategic focus on different forms of renewable energy. Since the National Park Plan is now completed, the focus on the protection of Norwegian nature management for years to come will be changed to a focus on how we manage our protected areas. First of all, it is still an important job to do when it comes to designing a natural management that takes care of those who live and operate in areas of protection. Furthermore, there is a great potential in these protected areas, and we need to seek to facilitate the development and exploitation of those who live in these areas. We need to seek to create a policy that gives more legitimacy to nature management and thus makes it more possible for people to see the possibilities rather than the limitations of the natural management we have. Furthermore, this year the Stortinge has made a predatory settlement, and it is very positive in the view of the Center Party. For the first time, we get a predatory policy that at least has a direction that takes more account of those who live and feed in predatory areas. Faster damage extractions, withdrawals of predators with abnormal behaviour, introduction of dog emergency shelters and withdrawals of predators representing a potential damage in priority grazing areas are examples of important elements to which all batches in this room have joined, and it is crucial to continue to follow up these measures. Nature conservation has a number of features that I do not have time to address in this debate, but there are several major contributions that are also passed on in the budget to the Ministry of the Environment. So it's like today reminds us of the challenges we have weatherily, with extreme rainfall, and greater pressure on infrastructure as a result of climate change is a major focus area in the time to come. Let me just conclude by thanking the colleagues in the committee and the secretary for the orderly and sound management of the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e721	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e724	As the representative Sande is fully aware, the oil and energy minister Ola Borten Moe was on a small trip to Canada a few weeks ago and had some fresh views that he could also communicate to the Norwegian press. As a result, the representative Sande went quite hard against his own oil and energy minister, saying: ‘I’m costing myself to disagree with Ola in his play on oil sands and the EU Fuel Directive. I do not think we should extract this oil sand under the control of Statoil." The question is: Does the representative Sande fight as a lion for this inside the Center Party, and in the government, or has he run from this position faster than a leopard? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e734	Let me just make it clear that I'm at that position when it concerns Statoil's oil sand extraction, but I also recognize that there's a point of view that the multiples in this hall don't share. Then it's a representative, a politician, say duty to work for the political positions one has, in this room and in the respective parties. Then I might not think it necessary to rework from the animal kingdom, but just make it clear that this work is going to continue. So let me also add that for the Center Party, we have clear decisions in our party program that say that we will just use state ownership to drive more environmentally friendly solutions and more environmentally friendly activity. So we have a clear ambition to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e741	It might be interesting to continue to ask questions from the animal kingdom and certain safari tours, etc., but I will refrain from doing so. The centre party has been in government since 2005, and it has always been a formidable increase in bureaucracy and state control. All of this has consequences for municipal self-government and private property law. The centre party has always been involved in this development, and it stands in stark contrast to what the centre party stood for earlier. My question is, is it not embarrassing for the Center Party that they have been involved in this development? Does the representative not know that this is an unfortunate development?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e750	I am aware that the right-wing group has also acquired considerable competence in the animal kingdom to which Bjørn Lødemel referred at the beginning of his speech, so those questions may also be addressed to his own colleagues. When it comes to ownership, I want to be clear that the predictions that the Right came with before the establishment of the Red-Green Government to almost portray it as if ownership rights were to be lifted have not turned on in the whole. Property rights are strong, and so has he under this government. What is open when it applies, for example. Whereas the protection and protection of property is that one has moved the administration against the debts in question; whereas, therefore, one has created a protective zone regime which gives greater proximity to those which must abide by the State decisions and those which adopt the regulations to be applied;
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e757	The government's cultural memory policy is marked by great words and visions, but it is not followed up in concrete action. A few weeks ago, we got a new example of that. Then there was the farm Haugøy in Wågå, which has expired. It's been almost a hundred years since you saved this farm. The authorities started the restoration in the 1990s, but the work was completed because the owners did not have the money to continue. The county product rapporteur in Oppland, Ivar Odnes of the Central Party, expressed in the Nations that we are not in the vicinity of succeeding in caring for and securing our beautiful cultural heritage for the future. Odnes calls for greater contributions to the State budget and encourages the government to follow up on the ambition to stop the decline of cultural heritage by 2020. This is something that the Christian People's Party shares with the chairman of the People's Party. Does the representative Sande agree with his party colleague from Oppland?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e773	I'm very much in agreement with the strong, desirable County Spokesman in Oppland, Ivar Odnes, for the preservation of cultural memory. I also share his strong commitment. This is an area where I don't think anyone in this room will disagree with the fact that we have great challenges, and we have a great potential for both caring and value creation around the values we have through the protected and protective building e.g., which was mentioned here. Then it is that when one represents a government party, one must also assume the responsibilities that come with it, and one must try to achieve the objectives that one has within different policy areas, but at the same time have a defensive budget that takes greater care of them – the concerns of Norwegian industry, competitiveness, employment, etc. It's also part of a budget work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e781	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e784	The Labour Party believes that our main task is to facilitate a comprehensive and value-creating energy policy, which we base on the efficient and environmentally friendly use of our natural resources. We believe it is important to see climate policy and energy policy in the context. This budget shows that we are able to combine the provision of income to the welfare community, to industrial development and employment throughout the country, while at the same time focusing on ensuring solidarity with future generations by working to achieve the objective of the climate agreement. This is a good budget, but it is a tight budget. I'm very happy about that. The crisis we see in Europe is very serious and can also affect Norway. Then steady financial management is crucial to securing Norwegian businesses and people's jobs. The Labour Party has steered the country safely through crises before and is prepared to act again when needed. Our main contribution to protecting us from external crises is to keep order in your own house and in your own economy. We say yes to security, yes to high employment, and then we have to have the courage to say no to something. The world will need oil and gas for decades to come. We are not there today – and not tomorrow – that we are able to supply the world’s population with renewable energy. 1.5 billion people have no access to energy today. Energy is one of the most important contributions for the world’s poor to be lifted out of poverty. At the same time, oil and gas production is polluting. That's why it's very good that this government is proposing to spend about 2.9 billion. kr in the further work on CO2 management in Mongstad. CO2 management is one of the most important measures in climate policy. In 2012, a new phase will take place when work on qualifying and testing different capture technologies is launched in Mongstad. The vision of the Workers' Party and this government is that the technologies developed and demonstrated in Mongstad, together with other R & D efforts, will contribute to a significant reduction in CO2 emissions even beyond the borders of Norway. The 2012 budget makes an offensive effort to further develop oil and gas activities in the north. We're proposing to spend 260 million. kr for knowledge acquisition in the north. This initiative will have positive ring-effects for Norway in general, but not least for North Norway in particular. We also propose to increase the Petoros operating budget. Through both 2009 and 2010, they have increased their efforts to contribute to increased extraction from the matured fields. The implementation of enhanced extraction measures would be of great value to the ownership interests of the country. That's why I'm glad that we're strengthening Petoro's competence so that they can maintain their follow-up role in the best possible way for the best of the community. In the 2012 state budget, the government is increasing climate and forest investment by almost 400 million. kr. That means we're increasing our stakes to $2.6 billion. kr. In line with the climate agreement, one Norwegian side would continue to be an active actor in order to ensure an international resolution on reduced emissions from deforestation and degradation of forests in developing countries. The forest system has given us good results so far and has contributed positively to the climate negotiations. I read in the VG today that the representative Peter N. Myhre of the Progress Party is very high on the track on the occasion of Norway's contribution to foresting in Brazil. As far as the aid policy of the Progress Party is concerned, I will not comment on it. I'll leave it. But I think it is important to say that Brazil has greatly reduced its deforestation. So this money is based on results, that is, they have to prove that they have reduced deforestation in order to get money. So this time the representative calls Peter N. Myhre in the woods – and he will get answers. That's how they get the money because they've done what they're supposed to do. They don't get it because the Prime Minister and the Environment Minister over the table have found out that they had too much money and thought it was good to give them out, but they get them because they've done what they're supposed to do. This is a good budget. It's a budget where Norway can't afford to experiment in turbulent times. We need safe and economic governance – and this government does.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e814	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e817	The representative Sund took note of the importance of continuing the work on CO2 cleaning at the test facility in Mongstad. In this context, LO leader Roar Flåthen in a chronicle in today’s business in June called for most of the climate agreement in the Stortinge to be too ambitious, and based on what the Stortinge knew in 2008. Also, State Secretary Per Rune Henriksen has said to the VG, and that it is necessary to reconsider the content of the climate agreement. He says that in 2008 the climate agreement was decided on the wrong basis, not least because of the wrong cost – and this needs to be revised. Is the Workers' Party and Eirin Sund in agreement with LO leader Flöthen and State Secretary Henriksen that the 2008 climate agreement, to which all political parties were involved, cannot be implemented in the present form, mainly because of costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e827	Just to make it clear also from this pulpit: the working party and the government are behind the climate agreement in Stortinget. That is what forms the starting point for the work that the government is now doing in the climate communication to come. That Roar Flåthen as LO leader believes what he means, I think he should be allowed to do. I hear what he's saying. That the State Secretary of the OED also thinks loudly about what he thinks is the way to go, I also think it's okay. We're taking with us people's and different organisations' input into the news work that is currently going on. But the representative Skumsvoll knows very well that I am not going to comment on what the job includes, or what we are assessing about the message that is coming. We're going to do that internally in the government. But I'm going to make sure that there's going to be a very good climate message that's going to take care of the industry and Norway, as well as meeting the global goals we've set ourselves.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e834	The budget is an important tool. As the representative Sund had in mind, the budget is characterised as tight. We have said no to much, and that reflects the priorities of the government and the Workers' Party. But there's a winner in the field of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, and that's this line for balancing network rentals. It's actually doubled. The working party and the government have decided to use 60 million. kr additional to the balancing of transmission tariffs in the case of network leases. So my question to the Sund representative is, why does the Workers' Party consider this to be so important that one chooses to spend a total of 60 million. kr more on this, although no one has really requested this increase – even the lobbyists have not requested this increase? It has a completely marginal effect. So we're very curious about why it's so important for the Workers' Party to spend the 60 million right here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e841	Now it may be that there are others like ‘lobber’ other things into the representative Meling, and some like ‘lobber’ something else into, among other things. The Labour Party and the Government. But it's like that for this government it's been important to make that increase, because we're working for similar power and network costs across the country, which I also know that the Right is concerned about that. There is a doubling of grants for cohesion, and this also means that network rentals reduce the geographical differences in costs between companies and contribute to the greater cohesion of network rentals. This also seems to be an important priority for the Workers' Party, and at the same time we propose to adjust the award criteria in order to make the scheme more focused. But then it's also the way in this government, like in all the previous governments, that there are some parties that think that something is more important than other things. I will not boast that the Labour Party has been sitting in the driver's seat to get this through in the budget. That's what the Center Party has done, but we think it's good that it's coming, and we're getting 100 pst. behind it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e846	Norway has a good industrial history. There's been a lot of value creation, and there's created a lot of jobs. We have a lot of good jobs per day, too. But there are also some black chapters in our industrial history that are about many of our fjords and marine areas being heavily polluted, because you may not have the highest consciousness and not the greatest regulation in this regard, in the past. In the budget we are discussing today, the government has been halving since 2010 in terms of clean-up measures for our fjords and marine areas – despite the fact that we were going to start with the major projects in 2012 because it has been said by the Council of State to the Committee in previous budget rounds. How is our old and good industrial history going to be good enough when we can't clean up these sins?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e851	I do not agree with the representative Hemdal that we are unable to clean up the sins. But I agree with Mr Hemdal that there is a reduction in the budget. Clean-up of contaminated land and seabeds is a high priority and extensive cleanups include: carried out in contaminated seabeds both in Kristiansand, in Oslo, in Stamsund and in Killingdal mines in Trondheim. So it is also important for the government that the normal thing is that it is the one that has contaminated, that is responsible for cleaning up and paying for itself. However, in exceptional cases, such as: where the seabed is contaminated, there may be ambiguity in responsibilities and the need for State contributions, in which case the State shall also contribute. So the work of cleaning up contaminated land and seabeds is going to continue, but the fact that one has reduced the allocation, that the progress of the clearing work can be influenced somewhat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e856	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e859	2011 in many ways represents a small distinction – roadside separation – for Norwegian petroleum industry. There has been more optimism again – regained the good optimism. This is due not least to the great findings made at Aldous/Avaldsnes, Skrugard. You might be able to talk about a little paradigm shift. We have also received a government council in the field that seems a little more positive than this government has given signals about earlier. That is also good, and that is why the Progress Party has a positive attitude to this in the first place. That is the policy that the government is also calling for in the notification of petroleum. I believe everyone sees that the petroleum industry is in no way a solar industry, as it was often claimed in the past. We have a proud story behind us, but we also have great opportunities and a generation perspective on the way forward. We have opportunities that concern both – I was saying – the findings that have been made, and also the Progress Party calls the hole in the map, which is about the Lofoten, the Vestral and Senja and the areas outside, where we also have great opportunities. Norway is an energy nation, primarily of petroleum, and I think we should be proud of that. We're not going to be ashamed of it, as I'm sorry to see some people might say when discussing climate policy. On the contrary, we should be proud. We are blessed with resources, but there are resources that we take care of in a good way, in an environmentally friendly way and in a safe way. It has given us wealth, it has given us employment and a completely different condition for an economic situation here in the country than what we experience in the world around us. There is an enormous value creation along the Norwegian coast. The world needs energy. We rounded a few weeks ago 7 billion people on this globe. 1.3 billion of these are people who live without electricity. Energy is a prerequisite for economic growth and good life. That way, then, the resources that Norway has as an energy nation, not only a gift that we ourselves can benefit from, but it is also a gift that modern Norway gives to the world when, as a secure and reliable energy supplier, we do what we can to create optimism and combat poverty, which is linked to energy. That is why I should also like to see a clearer perspective from this government on my own home areas – the areas outside the Lofoten, the Vesterålen and Senja. The hole in the map I talked about is completely illogical, for several reasons. Firstly, to achieve the critical mass, to develop the supplier industry, to have the ring-effects in North Norway that the region deserves, it requires a higher speed and a higher pace in the north. It is also fundamental if you want to develop infrastructure, which you will also need in the north, that you do not keep this hole in the map, which just doesn't work very rationally. We have a great future ahead of us, and we're not just setting the limit at the conventional instances. I have also received signals that are quite interesting for research, which show that we have unconventional natural gas – large occurrences of it – what is referred to as methane hydrates, widely on Norwegian soil. Technology is on the way. It could be the next stage in the Norwegian oil and gas adventure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e875	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e878	Recently, the climate summit in Durban on a future new climate agreement was concluded, and we know that there are new, demanding rounds to come. Here we have a climate settlement on the Stortinget that the government is following. Then it has been too many, including me, unclear for a long time if it is such that the Progress Party believes that the climate change we are facing can be man-made. When one then has a new climate policy spokesman in the Progress Party, I will take this opportunity to ask whether the representative Amundsen believes that climate change is man-made, and whether the Progress Party will therefore base it on shaping their future policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e885	I was waiting so far for a question of creed with regard to man-made climate change. The Progress Party has a scientific, rational relationship to this, and it's simply that we're dealing with research. We have a pre-war perspective. But at the same time, we allow ourselves to ask questions, not about the existence and whether human activity affects the climate around us – I believe as a matter of course that 7 billion people's activity on this small planet has some effects on the environment and the climate around us – but about the effect of it, the extent of it, the contexts, which are very complicated, and not least the result of it, and how it affects the climate. That's what this is about. So recent research has shown that perhaps the context is not as strong as the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change has claimed. We have an open mind about these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e894	Asking the Progress Party about anthropogenic climate change is kind of like playing the one arm bandit, because you get different answers every time, and you also get different answers depending on who you're asking. I want to challenge the representative Amundsen to try to be a little more precise. He has the right to have new research available. We, who were in the Norwegian delegation to the climate summit in Durban, were presented with a new report from the Bjerknesenter, which shows that the consequences of man-made climate change can be greater than we thought, and especially in the northern regions, with a far greater impact on the ice than we thought, for example. Research also shows that warming is concentrated on land masses and, to a lesser extent, the sea. That means that we're going to notice climate change to a greater extent as well. Can the representative Amundsen mention examples of the research the Progress Party in vague terms refers to when they sow doubts about man-made climate change? And can the representative Amundsen be clear and say that also the Progress Party has gradually taken on board that all the research suggests that we have a big, man-made climate problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e901	It is possible that the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen did not get the answer to my previous question, because I believe I said quite clearly that human activity affects the environment and the climate around us. It should just be missing – of course there's a context there. But I'm asking questions about this, which I think everyone should do, because this is not a question of faith, this is not a question of religion, it's a question of fact and science. So it's like studying cracks in different directions. The representative asks for an example. Yes, I can take an example. On 24 November, the NRC had a small case of a US research report showing that the relationship between temperature changes and the extent of CO2 in the atmosphere is unlikely to be as extensive as the United Nations Climate Panel claims. Then I think you should relate to it, take it over and not create a worst-case scenario all the time and operate with what I call a sulphur-prevalence business. We need a rational and scientific approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e909	In addition to the elements mentioned by Snorre Serigstad Valen, this report from the Bjerknescentrum also showed that the Amundsen constituency would be among the first land areas to pass a temperature increase of 2 degrees, and it is interesting to bring it along in this way. My question is really about the background to the research to which the representative Amundsen refers. He did that through an example, so the question has to be: Does the representative of Amundsen think that the United Nations Climate Panel's research represents a worst case scenario in the debate, and does the Progress Party want to leave the research report he referred to from the United States, and the fact-finding, presented from the United Nations Climate Panel, to weigh just as heavily when they make their environmental policy assessments?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e916	What I say about when I talk about the worst case scenario, which is almost a religious approach to the effects of man-made climate change, is political – that is, politicians that I believe are dragging this debate too far. As I say – preferably for the third time – of course it is that human activity affects the climate of the planet on which we live. We're 7 billion people, so of course it's like that. But then it's about scale, it's about effects, it's about how many degrees of CO2 in the atmosphere affect, etc. This report that I took from, with an example, was published in Science. It's heavy, in the sense that there's nothing that easily dismisses. Then I record that there are different results from different research, and I don't reject anything. My and the starting point of the Advance Party will always be – and should be – that we take science seriously. We're not doing this, I was saying, into a political symbolism policy where you draw things too far. We need a rational approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e924	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e927	The right focusses on how to create security for our well-being by strengthening knowledge and competitiveness in the future. It is important to ensure value creation, jobs and income to finance our welfare society. In line with these main directions, we have chosen to give priority to oil and energy, among other things. research — petroleum research, climate research and research on new renewable energy. Right-wing desires include: to strengthen the appropriations for the national research programme CLIMIT, which includes research, development and demonstration of fossil-based power generation technologies with the capture and storage of CO2 and to increase the fund capital of the CLIMIT Fund. The climate challenge and energy need to be seen in the context. The world’s growing need for energy is a focus on new renewable production. For Norway, this means a potential for exploiting the opportunities available here for industrial development and value creation. Therefore, the right wants to strengthen the renewable energy research programme, RENERGI. Norway has the potential for offshore wind power, among others. It is demanding in relation to the technology of the floating stations and also in relation to the costs of the fixed stations. It is built, among other things: a lot of sea-based wind power with bottom-solid installations in EU countries around the North Sea basin, representing an opportunity for Norwegian enterprises and communities of excellence. Many Norwegian players are already in this market, but smaller companies and new players will depend on references. Therefore, the right considers that a national test and demonstration programme should be established to provide the industry with the necessary references in the fight for market access within this segment. The right has proposed to strengthen the appropriations for petroleum research. There are no other areas in our industry where we get more for each research crown used than in the petroleum industry. The right has an ambition that the appropriations will be in the order of 600 million. kr annually. Parts of Norwegian sockets appear to be mature areas, with challenges in the future to exploit the potential for increased use of resources in existing fields. In the recent kerosene message, only 1 pst. increased extraction valued at several hundred billion kroner. Today, with plans that have been launched, we are at an extraction rate of approx. 46 pst. That means that over half of the oil is left lying. If we're going to take up these added values, it's going to be required, for example. increased focus on research and technological development. Programmes such as PETROMAKS and DEMO2000 are important in this context. Given the large value of increased resource use from existing fields, the Right wishes to strengthen the operating budget of the Oil Directorate, which makes an important and good professional effort in the management of the resource potential on the base. Similarly, we want to strengthen Petoro. Petoro, who manages the state's holdings on the socket, has, in the opinion of the Right, an increasingly important function after the merger between Statoil and Hydro, which made Statoil a dominant player on the Norwegian pedestal. Right, believe in a multiplicity of actors and that a high degree of competition gives us a healthy and dynamic development of the value potential of the socket. Petoro must be allocated resources so that they can even more closely represent alternative competences and solutions into the different licences in which the country holds ownership – not least in terms of increasing the extraction rate of oil in existing fields. Right wants Petoro to be financed in the future from the cash flow and not from the government budget, so that the organisation has the flexibility to meet the challenges. Given the added value of increased extraction rates, this is expenditure on the acquisition of income for our industry and for our country. Right is busy extracting the value potential of Norwegian socket. The petroleum industry is the country's sovereign industry, both in terms of employment, competence, value creation and income to the country. We are proud of an industry that, through several technological quantum leaps, has found solutions that make operations possible – where we previously didn't think it would be possible. This contributes, inter alia, to: to the development of a large supplier industry, which, in addition to serving a domestic market, has evolved to become the country's second largest export industry measured in value. The right is committed to further stimulating organisations contributing to this supplier development and has therefore prioritised strengthening the post of internationalisation and the important work done by INTSOK and PETRAD. If we are to be able to take advantage of the opportunities offered by the electricity certificate market with Sweden for the creation of new renewable production, it is important to reduce the process time for concession applications in terms of both energy production and infrastructure. Right wants to strengthen the operating budget of the NVE in order to reduce the processing time. Furthermore, the Right takes seriously the challenges we face with regard to the consequences of climate change and the warning that Norway will experience a warmer, wetter and more wild climate. Unfortunately, over the last few years, we have experienced greater impacts of both the flood and the race, and we therefore need to strengthen this work. Finally, I would like to address the proposals that have been made by the Right together with the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e956	For a moment – the President believes that the representative must also address the proposals that have been made together with the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, because the representative Amundsen did not take up the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e959	Then I will address the proposals that the Right has promoted with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e965	The representative Siri A. Meling has taken up the suggestions she referred to. The President noted that proposal No. 11 has not been taken up and that it must be taken up later by representatives of the progressive parties. It's nodding in the hall. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e972	In its alternative budget, the Right states that an impact assessment should be carried out as soon as possible for future oil and gas activities by Lofoten and the West Pole. Then I could first imagine asking what the representative Meling and Right meant by ‘the shortest possible’. The second question I have for the representative, Meling, is this: If the Right should come to the Government and the Government Corridors – which I do not hope – together with those who have been governed by the former Christian People's Party, the Left, etc., can the Right then be a guarantor of the launch of an impact assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e979	For many years, the right has had a clear view of the areas outside the Lofoten and the West Pole. We know that the resource potential is high, and we know that we have challenges in maintaining production volume in oil and gas beyond 2020. This means that we have a clear and clear view that we want an impact assessment in these areas. An impact assessment for us is not a question of whether or not to open these areas, but what criteria they should be opened under. What I can guarantee is that the Right will work for us to open up these areas as soon as possible, but it is clear that we are also concerned that it will happen in a way that balances good environmental considerations and coexistence with other industries. There is a great potential for developing industry and activity in the northern part of Norway, and I hope that the people of Lofoten and the Western Sea will soon be able to avail themselves of this opportunity for future interesting jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e988	In this context, it is worth noting that a majority of the inhabitants of Lofoten and the Westphalia do not want the joy of opening up local oil and gas activities, to which Meling aims. I'm going to ask you something else, and it's about a play Right had in connection with the climate summit in South Africa. Norway has a highly skilled and hard-working negotiating delegation that acts as both a policy developer and a bridge builder in many important areas. This is one of the key reasons why Norway enjoys a very high level of respect in international climate negotiations and also contributes to the fact that negotiations are, after all, progressing. Right wants to cut in the Norwegian delegation, and then my question to the Right is in which areas it is to be cut. Are those negotiating climate adaptation, funding, the green climate fund, emissions reductions and obligations there? In what areas is Norway not going to invest the same amount of resources in climate negotiations as it is now?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e997	First of all, when the representative Serigstad Valen says that there is no majority in the areas of Lofoten and the West Pole for extraction, I would just like to inform the representative that in the previous roll-out elections it was the parties that had a clear view of the development of these areas, which emerged in the roll-out elections, while the parties that opposed the opening-up of these areas, among others. Serigstad Valen's own party, SV, went back in the staging election. So I'm a little uncertain as to whether the Serigstad Valen really has a basis for the statements he makes. As regards the composition of the delegation in the climate negotiations, I will be the first to congratulate Norway on its efforts during the negotiations. What's important to us is to ask questions about whether the composition is right. Among other things, forest is a big theme. Very familiar were two representatives from the Ministry of Agriculture, who also have a lot of competence in forestry. Maybe the delegation could have been bigger. Maybe there could have been more from the Oil and Energy Department. Perhaps the Ministry of Economic Affairs could have been represented. In the climate, there are also great commercial opportunities. We have to be able to take that kind of discussion without being perceived as criticism.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1008	When we discussed the last year's budget, Right showed the government its work on establishing a fuel blending system, in line with EEA legislation, and made it clear that the Right was opposed to such a balancing system – not because it turned out to be demanding to produce, but as a climate action, because it would likely lead people and businesses in the districts to run more cars. In this year's budget, the Right balances with not being on the increase in the flat rate compensation scheme, which will then affect some of the same district areas, i.e. those that are now paying relatively more on the network than one in the central area, where there are many subscribers. So my simple question is, why is it that the Right always has to aged posts that in different ways frame Norwegian districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1017	I am in no way familiar with the reality description that the representative Sande is trying to draw for the Right. For the Right, it is to exploit our country – exploiting the opportunities available to our districts – of great importance. That is what – I was saying – together makes Norway a strong nation, a nation where we can maintain a good level of well-being. Then we have to use the resources that are in District Norway. With regard to network balancing: what would probably really have been able to reduce network costs in districts was to merge the network companies into larger units and distribute the burden, inter alia. also in the big cities. By increasing the balancing subsidy, the government is working towards such a type of structural change that could really be reconciled with District Norway. So I think maybe the representative Sande has a bigger job to do at home in caring for District Norway's interests.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1024	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1027	The climate issue is the most important issue today. It is illustrated by the efforts of global negotiators and politicians at international climate summits — and it illustrates how much is at stake. But it is also illustrated by tragedies that are raging around the world. Right now, 13 million people are at risk of starvation at the horns of Africa. It's a notified disaster we're seeing. Such disasters are likely to be many more if we do not manage to stop the man-made climate change. We must never forget the actual and physical and human reason why we work with climate policy. The Great Britain delegation is back from Durban now. The results are far better than expected, and there is every reason to congratulate the Environment Minister Erik Solheim and the Norwegian delegation on that. But we're far from the goal. Major countries such as China and the United States agree to reach a binding agreement covering all, in 2015. It must be an agreement that actually ensures that global emissions go down and that they go down enough. Global warming is not only the most important threat to people, but it is also the most important threat to nature's diversity – to species, to endangered natural areas, on which we are again dependent, to cultural landscapes and not least to the coast. We're going to get hit by that, too. The storm ‘Berit’ is a warning of more extreme weather, more destruction and also of more floods and damage caused by it. Last Thursday, VG had dedicated a double side to notify what kind of effects it will have for the earth if the international climate agreements are not filled with action – and actually fulfilled in the coming years. It is a trend in our committee to use the World Energy Outlook report of the International Energy Agency as a truth witness so that we should pump up as much oil and gas as possible. That's a truth with modifications. What the report says, is that as it stands today, oil, gas and coal will be a very large part of the energy mix in the years to come. The report also says that if we can't change it, the earth is heading toward 6 degrees global warming. It is quite difficult to interpret – no matter how liberal the interpretation may be – that Norway’s contribution to solving the international climate problem should be to keep as high a level of oil and gas production as possible. SV is very pleased that the two-degree target is fixed in the new agreement from Durban. However, it also involves concrete policies that need to be implemented, and Norway will do its part in the climate communication coming next year. These are social policy aspects that I think we are discussing a little too little. For example, climate researcher Rasmus Benestad of the Meteorological Institute points out that a temperature increase of 3 to 4 degrees globally can render large parts of Africa and the Middle East uninhabitable. We may get as many as 400 million climate refugees as refugees from these areas because of heat and drought. We also need to look forward to major societal changes as a result of man-made climate change — and that must be part of Norwegian policy as well. A green revolution is needed, including in Norway. Many people tend to say that Norway has only 2 per million of the world's emissions, so it can't make any difference what we do. The same can be said in Berlin, as can Paris, and so can the United Arab Emirates. But that is important, firstly because the vast majority of countries in the world are small countries. All have to contribute to a sufficient volume of greenhouse gas emissions cut. Secondly, Norway has already notified the climate objectives to the international secretariat for climate negotiations. We're going to cut at least 30 pst. of our emissions by 2020, two thirds of which are to be taken domestically. It would be a dramatic weakening of Norway's credibility if we weaken the goal of cutting back at home. One of the most important sentences of the Government Declaration is — and I read it at each budget debate: ‘The long-term objective of the government is to grant to each person on earth the same right to discharge greenhouse gases.’;» We cannot demand that Ghana and Bangladesh limit their emissions, unless we, which emit 20 times as much CO2, do the same thing. In that perspective, parts of the opposition’s attack on Norwegian climate policy – especially the attack of the Progress Party – become directly petty. When you don't even want to cut in the sector in Norway that pollutes the most and has the most money, I find it hard to realize that the Progress Party really takes man-made climate change seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1061	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1064	The representative, Serigstad Valen, presents nothing new. I can think of it, for example. from the 1950s, when a series of ice-cream shots went from Sunnmøre and only two-three of them came back. Many dozens of crews never came back. So it's nothing new that we've had nothing else. But I want to return to the world's need for oil. It'll increase dramatically. ‘The world’s oil demand will increase sharply and Statoil’s investment in oil sands is therefore very welcome’; Mr IEA's vice-president, Mr Birol, said to the evening post on 10 November this year. He went on to say: ‘When the entire production chain is rained from the oil production and transported to the consumer, the emissions are up to a maximum of 15 per cent higher than from other oil.’ It is also about the need for the poorest to have access to energy. Does SV and Snorre Serigstad Valen agree with the CEO of Birol that Statoil's oil sand production is welcome and should continue? If not, what is the option for the world's poor?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1084	I find it strange that we are constantly pushing the world's poorest in front of us, as a pretext for extracting unconventional fossil energy to be traded as fuel in rich countries in Europe and in the United States. My approach to that debate is that if we are to have any chance of achieving the two-degree objective, more than half of the fossil resources that have already been identified must lie – they must not be extracted. There we have a discussion of solidarity. If Norway is not to leave any of its resources, poorer countries are not allowed to participate in the wealth of oil production. But that also means that the more extreme forms of fossil energy, like, for example. oil sand, just becomes profitable and is only rational to bet on if you bet on and gamble with that we don't succeed in the international climate goals. Therefore, SV is highly critical of the exposure to oil sands in general and of Statoil’s involvement in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1089	One can get the impression that SV is not in government when one hears the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen, who has strong opinions about the future production of oil and gas on the base, but who is nevertheless behind the kerosene message provided by the government and who believes much about Statoil's involvement in oil sand, but has not yet taken action in the government to instruct Statoil in this area. But let me ask Serigstad Valen something else. Sergistad Valen said: ‘The climate is the most important issue today.’ Is the representative satisfied with the government's efforts and achievements at home and with the actions in the 2012 State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1101	The simple answer to that is that I am not going to be satisfied with Norwegian climate policy, completely independent of who is in government, until we have met our climate goals in 2050. The success criterion for Norwegian climate policy is not which parties can strike the chest – although I believe that SV has delivered many times more than what the Right has ever done in government in terms of climate. The success criterion is whether we are actually able to achieve the goals that make it possible to avoid global climate disaster. In the case of the petroleum message, SV is behind it. It determines that the two-degree target shall be a framework for Norwegian petroleum policy. It also shows that Norwegian petroleum production is going to go down, in fact as much as 25 pst., in the decades that are coming. I think it's going to go on down. It's because we're building an oil and gas market in the EU that's based on 20 pst. Climate action in the EU. Both Germany, the United Kingdom and Denmark announced in Durban that they would have a tighter climate policy in Europe. It is also likely that the market for Norwegian oil and gas will fall.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1108	‘The climate is the most important issue today’ said the representative, Serigstad Valen. It's a statement that I agree with. In our childhood, representative of Serigstad Valen, Gro Harlem Brundtland said that we should think globally and act locally. At the Swedish National Governing Board meeting in autumn, the Minister for the Environment expressed himself as follows: ‘To reduce the rate of opening of new fields will be one of the most important measures to reduce Norwegian emissions by 20 per cent by 2020’.» Later he deepened his views in today's business and said: ‘We would rather limit oil production by refraining from opening new areas, just as we did with the Lofoten and the Vestreål.’ But in the state budget, which is probably adopted later today, we're going to spend 260 million. kr for oil exploration in new areas outside the Lofoten and the West eels. Outside the West fjord, oil is now being opened. The question is: are we to believe in the budget, which gets Serigstad Valen's vote today, or in the words of the Minister for the Environment?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1125	It is not new to map the resources that need to be available on a Norwegian base. It has been accomplished by the Christian People's Party in government – unless openness, correctness, than what SV does, we have a far greater transparency in that work than the Christian People's Party and Minister Hareide were willing to have. But we're doing it in the northern regions, and we've done it outside of Lofoten, the Western Sea and Senja. I think it is a bit funny that the representative Hemdal uses the kerosene message and the state budget as an argument against the Council of State Erik Solheim says. There's no contradiction there. It is in the management plan regime that we decide which areas to open or not to open. SV has proven in ours that although we find great wealth and resources on Norwegian soil, we also make environmental and climate policy balances. We also have an impact on it in government, and therefore the Lofoten, the West Pole and Senja were not opened for oil and gas operations. I hope from my point of view that the Christian People's Party, which is prepared to want a civil majority and a bourgeois government in the next period, can be the same guarantor not to open these areas as the SV has been for six years now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1134	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1137	First of all, I would like to welcome you home to those of my co-representatives who have been to Durban, and I would also like to welcome you home to the Minister for the Environment, Solheim, who is at present turbulent. He was supposed to boast about the job he's done, but he gets it later. Climate negotiations continued in important areas, with an extension of the Kyoto Agreement and by negotiating a new international agreement by 2015. It agreed to establish a green climate fund – agreement on establishment, but not agreement on money contributions. You don't have to be in Durban to realize how important it is for negotiations themselves to reach an agreement that will lead the work forward. Psychologically speaking, this is very important. Getting agreement that will lead the climate fight in the right direction is, above all, crucial for millions of people, yes, it is crucial for the future of the planet. The decisions of the weekend show how far we got in the international climate negotiations this year. With regard to climate and millions of people over the globe, one would like to have a more ambitious consensus than the world society was willing to over the last weekend. But that's how far we got, with 194 countries around the table. It should be easier to reach agreement on national measures, which depend only on 120 to 130 to 150 votes — all from one country. Unfortunately, national greenhouse gas emissions are increasing. We are 8 pst today. above 1990 levels. That's what our binding national climate agreement is based on, and that's where we say we should reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 30 pst. compared to 1990 levels by 2020 and two thirds of the cuts are to be taken in Norway. That is why the Christian People's Party is amazed that next year's budget does not introduce new measures to reverse that trend – as the government also sees, when they look at greenhouse gas emissions for 2010. On 16 January, there were four years since the climate agreement was concluded here in Stortinget. All questions from the opposition over the last two to three years on the implementation of the necessary measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions have been answered that it will be addressed in the expected climate communication. Climate change – the Minister of Environment Solheim’s own picklist, or cold table, as he himself has called it – clearly shows that there are many climate measures that are socially profitable or that have a price below what we believe the future quota price will be at. By launching these measures, almost half of the national climate agreement has been met. Although I haven't been to Durban in the last week, I'm absolutely sure that one of the themes that has been left in many conversations is that it's urgent to get climate action, that it's going to be more expensive the longer a waiter, and that it's smart to start now. The Minister for the Environment's cold table is clear. The Christian People's Party hopes that the Minister for the Environment will soon say, "Welcome, it's served, and we'll start work! Fortunately, the state budget is not just about the lack of climate action. For the Christian People's Party, it is also important to get a lift for the outdoors, and therefore we have invested in the outdoors in our alternative budget. Outdoor life is no longer self-recruiting; it needs public drag and support. Active management of open air areas and archipelago parks is important to get people out of the sofa and out into nature. In the Christian People's Party, we put this into our alternative budget by providing more money for outdoor action, but also by asking for a new growth message on outdoor policy. The Christian People's Party also believes that cultural memory protection needs to be strengthened significantly in 2012. Cultural memory policy is characterized by respect and good intentions from all parties, but it is little followed up in practical policy, and it is through practical policy that we can preserve our cultural memories. When the national product says that the 2012 budget is a zero budget and when it announces stricter priorities, it should make the warning lights flash. The Riksantikvarn says that he will give priority to helping municipalities to preserve their cultural memories within the few funds in 2012. It is an action that the Christian People's Party is facilitating through a new support scheme for the preparation of cultural memory plans in the municipalities, which we have promoted in our alternative budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1165	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1168	The Christian People's Party's alternative budget will cut by 30 million. kr for knowledge acquisition in the north-east Norwegian Sea and the opening process at Jan Mayen. Is it not Christian People's Party that it is important to do such a thorough job as it is supposed to do in terms of knowledge-gathering, rather than by reducing this amount, in view of the further process and to have a proper basis for decision-making before a conclusion is reached?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1173	It's true that the Christian People's Party is reducing 30 million. kr in this case. We do that because Jan Mayen is a vulnerable area, it is far from other infrastructure that we have today, and the oil companies have also repeatedly – on questions from the undersigned – said that this is an area in which they do not want to establish themselves. Then the Christian People's Party believes that when it's vulnerable, when we don't have infrastructure there, and when the oil companies show little desire to establish themselves there, this is not an area in which Norway is going to operate oil and gas extraction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1178	At this year's Zero conference, Erna Solberg said: ‘In principle, we believe that the sectors in the quota system should continue to be mainly managed through the quota system.’ Furthermore, the representative of Solberg, who is the leader in the Right, said that the transport sector must take a greater share of the cuts than it has been set up to date. Many, including SV, have interpreted this as a slightly unclear relationship to the climate agreement, since there is no doubt that if the sectors in Norway that are mainly managed through the quota system are not to implement tougher measures than in the time to come — which is also contrary to what is happening, for example. Norsk Industri and the Joint Association themselves want to – it will be difficult to achieve the climate goals. What do the Christian People's Party think about the Right Revolution in this matter and what consequences it might have, both for a future climate settlement and for future cooperation on the civil side?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1193	What the representative Serigstad Valen now calls a spin-off by the representative Solberg, the leader of the Right, is probably as big a spin-off as the State Secretary of the Ministry of Oil and Energy Per Rune Henriksen has in the VG, where he says that imposing quota-based sector measures beyond the quota obligation is ‘ expensive’ and ‘stupid’. It is as big a spin-off as the Ministry of Finance’s opinion on the government’s climate notification, where the Ministry of Calculators appears. The Christian People's Party's policy is that all sectors must be involved in climate change. We said that in 2008, and we are going to stand firm on that with any climate announcement – when it comes – because no one can be allowed to supply the table without paying an extra price.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1200	I want to begin by commending the representative Hemdal for a good post. Of course, I'd like to make some exceptions for some sentences that went towards criticising the government, but besides that, it was a good move, which showed a sincere commitment both to climate and to nature and the environment in general. What is left in these debates that this committee has is precisely that. The Christian People's Party stands out as a proponent and wants more Soria Moria policy, i.e. more of – and faster – what the government puts forward. It must be possible for an opposition party to do so. I just want to put the question straight: does the representative Hemdal feel that it is the government party or the other – the opposition party – that is the Christian People's Party closest to climate and environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1207	I may have to disappoint the chairman of the committee, Mr Sande. That in the Christian People's Party we want to pursue more Soria Moria policy, is probably not the goal of those who are signed. The Christian People's Party wants to pursue a yellow policy, where we take management responsibility seriously, where we use our resources nationally, but where we also have a global perspective on it. When it comes to climate, we believe that the climate policy that the government is putting on the table is too late, and I pointed that out in my article. The climate report has been waiting for four years. It's too late for the conversions we need. You get to blame me for the job you did in Durban, but it doesn't keep you resting on those laurels, because now we're on Norwegian soil, and now we have to deliver in relation to the policy that you and I and the Stortinget are responsible for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1214	The President is absolutely sure that Mr Hemdal knows that all speeches should be addressed to the President. The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1219	I would also like to start by congratulating the Minister for the Environment, who, hopefully, is coming to the country soon, and the Norwegian negotiating delegation, on the fact that there was an agreement. Afterwards, I have noticed that the Minister for the Environment has stated that with an agreement that does not go far enough, there is an additional responsibility for each country. I see it as the Minister for the Environment says that Norway has to take greater responsibility domestically. The Left agrees, because the Left wants an ambitious environmental policy with the aim of ensuring the basis of life for future generations in all parts of the world. It is a fundamental liberal view of value and creates an ecologically equal starting point for all generations. The left will make Norway an environmental policy priority country and want us to take a great deal of responsibility at home. We need to develop environmental technologies and find solutions that others can use. Such a conversion is demanding, but it offers new opportunities. In a world where environmental problems become clearer, we want environmental companies to become the winners of tomorrow. In the government budget, the government writes that the main instruments of Norway’s climate policy are taxes and negotiable allowances. The problem for the government is that it is not willing to use the charges to reduce emissions. Norway needs to develop and put into practice new climate technologies and change its way of life so that greenhouse gas emissions are significantly reduced, while maintaining the level of welfare. Norway must go from being a fossil nation to becoming a renewable nation. The left is pleased that we finally have an agreement on a scheme of green certificates, but we would like to stress that we also need an increased general effort to get more clean energy production in Norway. The left therefore proposes, inter alia: increasing direct grants to the Energy Fund, establishing a scheme of grants for the development of thermal energy, and we will give money to the MET Centre to speed up the propulsion and development of marine wind turbines. This, in addition to a stronger commitment to environmentally friendly relations, is some of the priorities we have in our alternative state budget. Despite what I hear the representative Eirin Sund says, the Left is concerned about the progress of the government's moon landing in Mongstad, while the Minister of Oil and Energy seems to have forgotten the promise of Soria Moria to clean Kårstø. The government promised in the Soria Moria declaration to clean the gas power plant at Kårstø as soon as possible. This promise has not been fulfilled. The gas power plant and the gas terminal at Kårstø emit more GHG together than any other GHG source in Norway. In the proposed state budget, it appears that both Kårstø and Mongstad have unfortunately been allocated significant amounts of free allowances. In our view, such subsidisation of emissions is totally wrong and directly contrary to the policy that Norway should pursue and that the Left stands for. In our alternative budget, we in the Left are proposing a number of increases in appropriations for important environmental and climate action such as research, environmental monitoring, conservation of wild fauna, cultural heritage, outdoor activities, forest protection, oil conservation, clean-up measures and environmental monitoring of more than 400 million. kr. In total, the Left contributes to climate and environmental action – with a green tax reform that contributes to a total tax shift of about 5.5 billion. kr – with approximately SEK 2.6 billion. SEK in appropriations for 2011 and reserve provision for a total of SEK 5,2 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. The left also proposes a strategic commitment to the knowledge and low-emission society of 2.3 billion. in addition to the Government's proposals. That effort will be crucial to achieving the objective of the climate agreement, as the Left sees it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1241	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1244	The left writes in its alternative budget that they will have a general increase in their efforts to increase the production of clean energy in Norway and get new green jobs. For us in the Workers' Party, work for every job is number one. We have great ambitions for Norway as an energy nation, and we have set ambitious climate targets. It is followed up, among others. today with the electricity certificates, which will lead to mass renewable energy by 2020 and opportunities for increased value creation. In order to generate all renewable energy and deliver future-oriented and sustainable green jobs, we need a large-scale deployment of the electricity grid. My question is therefore: Will the Left accept increased natural interventions to produce and produce more renewable energy, such as energy. will new green jobs be created? The energy has to go!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1249	I thank the representative, Mr Stroem, for putting himself into the alternative budget of the Left, and for referring it in a very trusting and correct way. When it comes to power – of course we get it. The previous case that was dealt with here means that we must have the production of electricity, and we are for it. But I am absolutely sure that the representative is looking for the actions that have been in Hardanger, where the local representatives of the Left have been very active. We believe that the current lines there can be built in a much more gentle way than what becomes reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1258	Left's resistance to forcemasters is not the only thing. In addition to using a lot of energy in this room to talk about renewable energy, one is also opposed, for example, to forest roads. So on the one hand, one is very busy with bioenergy and turning the use from fossil to renewable energy on the heating side. On the other hand, one is out there criticising forestry road construction and the infrastructure that is important just to extract this bioenergy. How does the representative tend this to work together?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1263	As I said in my post, we are for forest, and we spend a lot of money just on forest protection. So that's the way we see it, and we know that many environments are concerned about, that the violent granulation that has been especially in the West, and that the representative Sande really should take into account if he hasn't seen it, has brought great challenges to biodiversity. Through this undergrowth planting, forest roads are being built that also affect biodiversity in a way that we in the Left cannot just sit and look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1269	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1272	The government continues its strong environmental effort in 2012, in line with the Soria Moria Declaration and in recognising that we still have important tasks to do. The Ministry of the Environment's 2012 draft budget has a spending framework of 4 893.5 million. kr. This is an increase of 6.5 pst. in relation to the 2011 budget. Also in 2012, there are many important investments in the budgets of other departments. The overall environmental policy action in all departments is estimated at well over 41 billion. kr. Among the environmental measures that are carried forward and prioritised in 2012 are climate action against deforestation and forest degradation in developing countries, the purchase of climate allowances, enhanced public transport and railway development, support for renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement and natural diversity. Representatives from around the world have just been gathered in Durban to move on in international climate work. 2011 is expected to be one of the world's hottest years registered. The government is committed to the climate agreement and to the goal of cutting Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions by 30 pst. compared to 1990 levels by 2020. We've also said we're willing to increase this to 40 pst. The commitment to the development and use of CO2 cleaning technologies in Mongstad and Kårstø is continuing, we are working for increased use of alternative energy, and we are continuing the great effort on climate and forest measures in developing countries. We are proposing to increase the climate and forest effort by 387 million. kr in 2012, to SEK 2,6 billion. kr. This initiative has produced good results so far and has, among other things, contributed positively to the climate negotiations. The 2012 budget increase means that we are on track with the goal. 15-20 pst. the world's carbon dioxide emissions are due to the removal of rainforests, and keeping the forest standing is the cheapest and simplest measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Next year, the government will present a communication to the Stortinget on climate policy, where we will pave the way for Norway’s action against climate change. We will also present a communication on how we can best adapt to the climate change that we see coming. Important societal functions need to be ensured against increased weather and wind impact. There is a need for better coordination, clearer responsibilities and increased efforts. The Government proposes to increase the funding for the implementation of the National Park Plan by 100 million. kr. This appropriation is mainly intended to cover the compensation of forest areas in protected areas. As part of the follow-up to the new Local Area Management Model, the Government proposes to increase the allocation of 17 million to the Protection Area Managers. kr. Together, it is proposed to increase the budget for the major nature conservation areas by 132 million. kr in 2012. The preservation of the wild axis is a high priority task. The government is proposing an increase of 40 million. kr for the control of the Salmon Parasitic Gyrodactylus salaris in the watercourses of the Vefsn region. It's estimated at 10 million. kr for follow-up of the robberies agreement. These funds include: to strengthen the operation of the State's natural resources and the Secretariat of the Explosives. Furthermore, the government proposes to strengthen Rovdata and surveillance of predatory game. It is also proposed that 5 million be allocated. kr for measures to keep the hub and 8 mill. to work on water management and remediation in watercourses with poor environmental quality, including the Halden watercourse. The government also proposes 26 million. in 2012 for the MAREANO programme, which monitors the seabed, on the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. This is an increase of 12 million. kr from 2011. The increase shall be aimed at mapping the area at the Russia demarcation line. In the open air sector, the government proposes to increase the banding action space for new open air areas to around 55 million. kr. It is proposed to increase by 55 million. kr. The ‘Citys of the Future’ project, which is a cooperation between the State and 13 city municipalities on a better environment and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, is continued with a budget of 34.5 million. kr. The government proposes 225.1 million. kr for the protection and protection of protected and protected cultural memories and the cultural environment in 2012. A appropriation of 43,7 million is proposed for the protection of vessels. kr. Furthermore, it is proposed to grant 8 million. kr to the value added programme. The Government proposes an increase of 21 million in environmental research and monitoring appropriations. SEK, to SEK 548,3 million. kr in 2012. To the environmental research institutes, the government proposes an increase of 9 million. NOK 158,8 million. kr. Finally, let me remind you that the environmental challenges are interrelated. The rise in temperature and the change in climate may reinforce other environmental problems. Emissions of CO2 make the sea more acidic, which is a threat to the natural diversity and therefore also to the production of food from the sea. We must therefore seek comprehensive solutions and not face the problems individually. The management plans for the sea areas are a good example of such an overall approach. The 2012 budget continues and strengthens the government's environmental policy. I feel confident that the government's objectives, ambitions and priorities bring together a broad majority in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1320	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1323	Following the Durban agreements, the Solheim State Council has expressed its opinion in a way that is difficult to understand than further ambitions to cut domestic CO2 in Norway. He has said something like that, as you have an agreement that does not include many other countries, only 15 p.m. This means that these countries have a separate additional responsibility to reduce CO2 emissions. Does this mean that, in practice, the government will now go beyond cutting two thirds domestically? Is this a new government signal? We even trace what is clearly a conflict within the government in terms of the two thirds goal. Can the Council of State explain whether this is an expression of a new government policy, that is, going beyond the two-thirds target?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1338	I think we have to interpret Solheim's statements, among others. based on the fact that we have a big challenge even after a good result from Durban in relation to what you could have expected. The Durban meeting has shown that we have major challenges in getting a legally binding international climate agreement on time in relation to what the world is demanding, and in setting a two-degree target. This means that all countries have to think national climate. As I have also said in my post, the government comes back with a message to Stortinget. The cuts, as we have just said, that we are going to take domestic, are firm. I also made that clear in my article. More details besides that, I think I'll leave to the Environment Minister to respond at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1345	The Council of State mentioned this by thinking of climate action at national level. So that's what thinking about it, would and would do it in practice. If we are to achieve our climate goals, everyone must contribute in a good way and have an overall approach, which the Council of State also had in mind. That's why I thought it might be good to ask the Council of State: what has she done in her own department to contribute to the national climate? Can she provide some examples of action taken by the Ministry of Labour to contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1352	Thank you for giving me a question that was addressed to myself as Minister of Labour, and not as a functioning Minister of Environmental Protection. We always think in a climate that we're careful not to take too many prints when it's not necessary, and we're careful to turn off the lights and have good systems for saving light. That being said, we're in a slightly special phase, because we've just moved into new offices. We have been on the move since 22 July, but I will take it that we are also reviewing in the new premises how we can help save CO2 emissions. I fully agree with the representative that we must think that way all the time. We can certainly think about this better in the Ministry of Labour than we have now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1364	By 31 September at the latest, the Stortinget shall be submitted to the Climate Change Communication. It was promised in the nobility. There is no secret that there is an internal disagreement in the government's climate and environmental policy. State Council Ola Borten Moe has become the pure oil sand lobbyist, while Environment Minister Erik Solheim is strongly opposed to oil sand. State Secretary Per Rune Henriksen and the Ministry of Oil and Energy say that it is expensive and stupid to impose more measures on the quota sector in a possible new climate notification. The representative Serigstad Valen was here in the hall and challenged the undersigned and said that it must be the way to go. Party leader Kristen Halvorsen says it's okay for people to see what we're up against. We know we're going down 30 pst. in relation to the track we were on in 1990. We have a petroleum message that we're going to adopt next week, which gives 23 pst. How is this climate communication really going to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1373	I think here I point out that we are going to submit a climate report, and then the representative will get the answers that she is now asking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1378	In the alternative budget of the Left, we have a green tax reform that contributes to a total tax shift of about 5.5 billion. kr. We want less taxes on jobs and business and more taxes on environmentally hostile behaviour. We want the polluter to pay, that no one should escape, and that environmental taxes should be increased and that conversion should be premiumed. I want the Council of State to assess this Left Policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1383	I can at least say that the polluter-should-pay-principle is also high with this government. We can agree on that. Otherwise, with regard to the details of the Left's proposal here, I would ask that it be submitted in writing to the Solheim Council, and then he can answer it. I don't want to go in and answer the details here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1391	Today’s Business on 1 December 2011, State Council Ola Borten Moe warns against believing that Norway can be the best at renewable energy sources other than hydropower. He points out that Norway tends to exaggerate its own importance. He goes on to say that wind power is being built both onshore and offshore throughout the world. Many times you have the impression that we're alone. We just have to realize that a lot of people are ahead of us on the renewable initiative. Our contribution may come from offshore technology such as the foundation and location of offshore wind turbines. My question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State agree with the Council of State Ola Borten Moe that we are not at all so advanced in renewable production with the exception of water, as we often believe we are in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1400	I also ask for an understanding that this question is intended for the State Council of Solheim to get his assessments of it, and I would ask him to answer this in writing as well. I'm sorry I can't answer. He's still in the air somewhere, I think.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1405	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1408	We're in a slightly special situation because both of the relevant ministers are in a bad state. Then we get to hope that climate change and more extreme weather don't make us end up in this situation more often. It's the next day for the Durban Summit. I would like to take this opportunity from the Chair here and commend both the Minister for the Environment and the Norwegian negotiating delegation for the efforts that have been made. Everyone is aware that we work overtime. Everyone knows that the legally binding agreement, which we are now making a run for 2015, should have been concluded in Copenhagen two years ago. A Kyoto agreement continuing with only European countries has a limited value. I have to say, however, that I think it was very special yesterday to observe that parts of the environmental movement were out and praised the efforts of the Environment Minister, while the Progress Party, which is unable to decide whether they believe that climate change is man-made, expressed great concern that the agreement was too bad. We were dangerously close to collapse — perhaps closer than ever — and the efforts that Norway made in the interview, overtime, were very important. We should not underestimate the bridge builder's role played by the Norwegian negotiators. When you say people work day and night, it's very rarely literally meant, but in this case it is. It is not uncommon for Norway to be asked, in almost all climate events, to take the lead in important areas of negotiation. Then I noticed a play from the Right En route at the Durban Summit, where they called for a slimming down of the Department of the Environment's negotiating delegation. So you have to send fewer people. It can only mean that the Right believes that Norway will play a less active role in the negotiations in the future. I have to say for my own part that I hope the Ministry of the Environment will not get a Right-Head after the 2013 elections. Then, even after what we call conditional success in Durban, the reality is that emissions are increasing. They're rising faster than ever, and they're going to keep going for years to come. Time is running out of the two-degree target, and adaptation costs are going to be high. Then there are a few light points. During the Durban meeting, Brazil presented new figures, showing that the reduced deforestation continues. That means a lot, because this is a big and fast emission shot. It is important for bio-diversity, and it is particularly important for the building of trust between countries and developing countries in these negotiations. The rainforest effort has become a major and heavy part of the Ministry of the Environment's business, and I am very pleased that a new billion are now being transferred to Brazil, and that this was announced during the summit. Then the right and important steps in both climate and bio-diversity are taken at home in this budget. Several of them are excluded from the budget of the Ministry of the Environment. This applies, for example: conversion of car charges and enhanced public and railway development. We continue to invest in CCS, environmental technology funds and eight research centres for environmentally friendly energy. Then the majority also writes in their attitude that we are responding to the climate communication coming in 2012, and I can stress that we are. Then, nature diversity is a field that has received a formidable lifting both legally and in the budget since 2005. I believe that of all the important things that this government has done in the field of the environment, this is perhaps the most important thing, because the loss of species occurs at such a rate that it poses a fundamental threat to our resource base. This is something that is very often undercommunicated and is in the shadow of the climate field. This budget contains a very clear priority of natural diversity. There's been a lot of work on the protection page in the last few years. The national park plan is soon to be completed. There are funds in this budget to complete it. It is also good that we get a strong focus on taking care of the areas of protection we already have by putting more into care, and I also think it is worth mentioning that a red-green minister had to put in place a local management model for the protection areas. I think that's very good. So I'm going to end by mentioning that there was an important work in Stortingen in the spring session, where all the parties were able to gather for a looting game settlement. It shows that Parliament is able to take responsibility and manage our nature in a long-term way. I am very pleased that this piece is also being followed up in the 2012 budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1436	Norway is a country with a unique nature and a unique natural landscape. It is both a private and a public responsibility to ensure a good environment and defence use and use of the country's natural resources. That was and is the goal of the Progress Party, and it was among other things. visible through the predatory settlement to which a collected bulking joined. One should have a reasonable housing of land resources and the removal of pests that prevent off-shore activity where there are few other nutritional facilities, if any, and a balanced arrangement between grazing animals and live settlements and accepted to have predators in the parts of the country where this is possible. Based on the predatory settlement to which a mass accumulation joined, it is highly unlikely that the government does not reflect this possibility through a significant reduction in the replacement of grazing animals taken by predators. Does this mean that the Ministry of the Environment does not believe in the negotiated agreement, or is it not prepared to ensure a resolute and effective extraction of pests or strippers, as expected in the agreement? Where a support should be provided, preventive measures will allow for conversion for farmers in predatory areas. The party of progress has clear expectations of respect for the premise of the predatory settlement, and it also has a mass outreach industry. So move on to climate and climate action. As an observer in Durban to COP17 and a delegate, one of 10,000 delegated and a total of 25 000 accredited, I asked myself the early question about COP17 was organised in a way that met the climate and the clear challenge seriously. My answer was a clear no, the whole thing was that many would characterize as a climate industry, and Norway sent the largest delegation of all – no matter how important it is – per capita or in other ways. If all the participating countries did the same thing, it would be total chaos. The result achieved in Durban was the creation of a green fund currently without money and the temporary extension of a previously agreed climate agreement, a Kyoto agreement that both the United States and China are well off. The question will be asked what has been achieved at that time. A temporary agreement that only applies to 15 pst. by the world's emissions are, to many people, almost worthless. Then it is strange that Stoltenberg and Solheim present the results achieved in Durban as a big saying. So much of the Norwegian media would have to criticize four of us observers who, when we finished all our meetings, had time to visit a national park. It was a useful and informative trip where we, among other things. got to see that they had the power to keep endangered animal species. At the same time, they created many very long-term jobs. The trip was useful, and there is no need to complain, and neither has any of us. Finally, a trip abroad again, but still under the motto to last. The theme is archaeology and the more or less meaningless regime we have there, which, in many words, leads to memory being hidden away, or even thrown, in order to escape a considerable financial burden if one should be so fortunate or unlucky, whatever, to find something historically important. The fact that landowners are charged with the costs of archaeological excavations on behalf of the community appears in many cases as very wrong, and therefore the Progress Party and the Right ask the government to file a case on the financial responsibility of the state for archaeological excavations when this is imposed on private property. The uraemic requirement for individuals to pay large sums based on the assessments of individual archaeologists appears to be so burdensome for reasons that there is a work to be done here that places responsibility where it should lie. As it is today, the great archaeological costs of development and renewal in many municipalities – that is the clear feedback we get. Finally, it is a pleasure to record the positive and uplifted atmosphere it is in the petroleum sector. The large findings in the North Sea of the Aldous field and in the Avaldsnes field will contribute to many jobs in high-tech work. It is not that the petroleum sector is about to enter the sunset, so one can get the impression of parts of the government – on the contrary. I am glad that one has found these big occurrences that will allow many of the young people today to participate in very interesting jobs in the future. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions that have been made by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1464	The representative Oskar J. Grimstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1467	The Durban climate summit is behind us, but the climate challenge remains unresolved. This year's meeting was the seventeenth meeting in the series. Nor was it possible this time to build a bridge between those who would, and those who would not, in addition to a loose agreement to agree at a later stage. In the UN, it's the one that wants the least, that decides the most. The upside of this decision-making system is that revolution is not possible. The bottom page is that even the most obvious collective good can be set aside if a country does not want to. It is the fundamental weakness of the United Nations system, and this is what makes it necessary to ask whether the UN decision-making structure enables the challenges facing the world to be met within the time frame set by the United Nations Panel on Climate Change. Misunderstand me correctly: I am like, I believe, most in this Chamber are in favour of a multilateral world order, not least because it allows small countries such as Norway to participate in – and find protection in – an international legal and social order. At the same time, and with the climate challenge as a backstop, we must recognise that the UN has weaknesses. In many questions, the UN was paralyzed during the cold war. Now that the world is about to find the heat, we meet the same paralysis. Just as the UN was not the reason for the end of the Cold War, it is well possible that we need to look at other arenas and forms of cooperation to translate climate policy ambitions into action and concrete action on a global scale. The major polluters in the world must agree on some basic principles and rules of play, in the certainty that climate change affects us all, constitute a community of fate, and require collective and resolute action. It may be possible to get together within the framework of the UN Climate Change Conferences, but we need to keep the opportunity open for other arenas and instruments to be available, and it should be an exercise for everyone to assess how Norway can best contribute in such a context. Pending a global climate agreement, Norway has to do its job. We have technology, competence and capital to contribute to the challenge, and we are among the countries in the world who can best demonstrate that it is possible to combine growth and high living standards with a climate- and environment-friendly society. In the last few years, the Right has promoted a number of proposals that will contribute in the right direction. Together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, we have proposed that the government launch socio-economic economical measures from Climate Change 2020, without waiting for the Climate Change Communication. The right has proposed a billion-dollar contribution to public transport in the metropolitan regions. We have proposed an eco-innovation fund to help develop and implement new emission abatement technologies. We have proposed a comprehensive review of fuel taxes with the aim of making it profitable and predictable to choose environmentally friendly alternatives. A week ago, we presented a proposal for a national biogas strategy. In our alternative state budget, we propose to increase the mineral oil tax, but also to increase support for the replacement of oil fires, we grant more for research into renewable energy and for the reward scheme for urban walking and cycling measures, and we propose VAT exemptions for the leasing of electric cars and batteries in electric cars – to mention something. The common feature of all these proposals is that they are voted down by the government parties. Instead of taking action that we must in any case take, the government's strategy is to wait for measures to be agreed on in the Government's Climate Action Communication. The challenge is that it is becoming more expensive and more demanding to achieve the climate goals we have set for every day that goes. At the pace of the government it will soon be impracticable to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. At the same time, we hear on the radio that State Council Solheim will do more at home. Well, at least he can't start doing anything instead of focusing on doing more, we can talk about more when he's starting to do something. In the 2012 state budget, there is one new climate action in practice, and there is a new charging policy for plug-in hybrid cars. It's all right, but it should and could be so much more. State Council Solheim went out in the election campaign and was high and dark on behalf of classical nature protection and attacked the Right to weaken nature protection. Now we know the fasit. The Government, with the SV at the rudder of the Ministry of the Environment, dramatically cuts in the allocations to two key areas of classical environmental protection. One is the cleaning up of toxic sediments, where since 2010, it's cut from 110 million. NOK in appropriations for a little over 60 million. In addition, although the Ministry itself believes that it has identified an increasing need for precisely cleaning up toxic sediments, as reported by the Ministry in 2008, 2009 and 2010. The second area is forest protection, which is important in order to meet our commitments to preserve biodiversity in Norway. Nevertheless, we experienced severe cuts to voluntary forest protection, and it is not related to the other ambitions we have. Finally, let me pay a little visit to the representative Marthinsen. She took up the criticism that, among other things, had been raised by the representative of Gundersen that the delegation to Durban could have been more broadly composed, with representatives from several departments. It was mentioned by the representative Meling that, for example: The Ministry of Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Agriculture and other departments could have benefited from being present. It was supported by the government council, Bjurstrøm, because she said we had to have a cross-sectoral approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1497	The government's objective for the petroleum industry is to ensure long-term management and value creation on Norwegian soil – safe climate and have environmentally sound frameworks. We will also underline the government's objective of extracting resources on the base in the most environmentally friendly way possible. Norwegian petroleum activities maintain a high standard in terms of environment and climate. The activity on Norwegian soil is high, and new findings also indicate a high level of activity in the coming years. The high level of activity on Norwegian pedestal also contributes to increased value creation and ensures employment across the country and an important supplier industry, with its competence. Report. St. 28 for 2010–2011, An industry for the future — on the petroleum industry, indicates the government’s policy for long-term value creation and resource use on Norwegian soil. In order to maintain a high level of activity in the industry, a parallel effort must be made to increase extraction, to develop drifty findings, to search open areas and to open new areas. The Government follows up the notification in the budget of the year. Based on the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas around Lofoten, a knowledge acquisition is now being carried out in the north-east Norwegian Sea and the opening processes for the petroleum activities at Jan Mayen and in the south-east Barents Sea. Furthermore, increased extraction through the strengthening of Petoro and the emphasis on increased extraction in terms of technology development are pursued. I'm glad that there's a bet in the north, and that someone now uses approx. 260 million. kr for knowledge acquisition to get a properly reworked basis before concluding on where to go. There are great expectations in the north. One of the biggest challenges in the country is youth. Young people are looking for exciting jobs. This is why it is important to facilitate it in this part of the country too, especially given that we want – not just want but demand – to have ring-fenced effects on land. Then I will draw attention to both what happened in the Stavanger region, and not least what is happening in Kristiansund and on the Helgeland coast now, in Lake Sandness, my neighbourhood. This is an important industry — also for the future — based on knowledge work. The Government proposes to grant 1 million in the State budget. kr in support of a development project directed by the petroleum industry. The aim is to develop a data tool to make information on future contracts on Norwegian continental shelf easier for potential suppliers. In the start-up phase, the project will concentrate efforts on contracts in the Norwegian Sea and in the Barents Sea. The government is concerned with creating regional ring-effects of the activity. This project will manage the opportunities for Nordic enterprises to participate in tendering processes. Finally, I can bring you a good news, from December 1. The supplier company Aker Solutions has chosen Tromsø as the starting point for its North Norway bet. A new engineering office in the Icelandic city will gather expertise in the north. «We have great faith in the potential of the Norwegian capital and the Arctic. If the market continues to develop positively and we succeed in winning contracts in the north, we believe it is possible to build an engineering office in Tromsø with 200-300 employees over three to five years.» It says working director of Aker Solutions, Øyvind Eriksen. According to the company, the start-up is a result of the many field developments in North Norway and the Barents Sea. Previously, the company is building a service base for underwater technology in Hammerfest. Now they've also established themselves with a well-engineered company in Narvik. These are positive signals – it is positive for this industry, and it is a positive contribution to North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1524	Norway is a major energy nation. Since the beginning of 1970 we have become a very large exporter of oil and gas. Production will continue for decades to come. New great findings, such as Aldous and Avaldsnes, contribute to this. The large revenues generated by petroleum activities have contributed to the creation of a ground for technological development and a high standard of living in Norway. The green certificates introduced with Sweden from January 2012 are technology neutral. Hydropower is likely to dominate the licence market for the first time. Green certificates will only be issued to those who started building the power plants after September 2009. Although there was a political consensus in 2004 that everyone who built from that year would receive certificates when the scheme was introduced, the reality is different. The 2004 political promise of support is not implemented by the red-green government. If the Progress Party comes into position from 2013, this provision will be converted. Increased use of renewable energy sources will make energy use more flexible. The development and production of alternative renewable energy sources also have a high potential for the creation of new jobs. The processing time of concession applications for new power generation and network deployment by the NVE is still taking a long time. The treatment of the NVE as well as the appeal assessment in the Ministry of Oil and Energy may take five to six years. Concession treatments should be able to be implemented substantially faster. Today it is approx. 600 small-scale power supplies waiting in the NVE. The Progress Party and the Right proposes to delegate the concession authority in minor extension cases to the municipalities. The Progress Party will re-assess protected watercourses in terms of a safe use of energy. These watercourses should be opened for the concession treatment of small scale hydropower up to 3 MW. Two cold and dry winters were a major challenge for suppliers of electricity to Middle Norway. A combination of large consumption and a power system with limited transmission capacity into the area meant that the kWh price for short periods was very high. In addition, parts of the area had weak security of supply. In order to address a weak grid multiple locations, Statnett presented its Network Development Plan in November 2011 to be implemented by 2021. The cost is estimated at between 40 and 50 billion. kr. Investments are made to ensure the supply of electricity to Norwegian electricity consumers, as well as to facilitate Norwegian climate policy and value creation. The revitalisation of small and wind power and the electrification of parts of the petroleum activity along the Norwegian coast are other significant factors for developing and upgrading the grid. The Progress Party is concerned that we have a differentiated business life with predictable framework conditions such as taxes, taxes and energy prices. Without equal conditions, Norwegian companies cannot compete. LO, Norwegian Industry and Energy Norway presented in December this year common requirements and objectives to strengthen energy-based industry in the document ‘Common platform for increased value creation’. This requires the construction of socio-economic, profitable transmission cables. At the same time, they demand greater speed and determination in the development of the high voltage grid. Furthermore, energy-intensive industries are required to be compensated for in line with similar foreign enterprises. Different conditions will result in carbon leakage to the rest of the world. The report points out that the climate will suffer from strict Norwegian requirements leading to industrial production moving to other countries with less restrictions. The Norwegian energy-intensive industry is one of the least polluting industries in the world. Aluminium production which has coal as an energy carrier will have emissions of approx. eight times Norwegian emissions for the same production. Norway is a very large exporter of gas, but domestic consumption is only about 1 pst. of the gas produced. The propulsion party would like to increase domestic gas consumption considerably, as gas is the fossil energy source with the least CO2 emissions. The 2012 alternative budget of the Progress Party proposes the use of 20 million. kr for the construction of infrastructure for the domestic use of gas. The Party of Progress will use gas as an energy source where renewable electricity is not available. An example of this will be the construction of an aluminiumworks in Finnmark, which Alcoa has been on the track to realize.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1551	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes, with the exception of the Council of State, which shall arrive at a later date with the speaking time allocated to him under previous decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1554	Cultural memory protection cannot be a public task alone. If we are to succeed in preserving the long lines of our collective memory and cultural anchoring through the experience of past monuments, the protection tank must spring out of well-established attitudes in the population. Right, therefore, wants a positive protection policy that builds up under the joy of cultural memories, seeing the long lines of history and having a better chance of putting their own lives into a historical context, a policy that helps the owners of cultural memories to experience this as a value, which gives status, and that the efforts they make to contribute to the maintenance of our collective memory are actually valued. So it's a cultural memory policy that doesn't have its primary focus on impositions, private expenditure and control. Of course, we have to have a lot of this too, but more importantly, the instruments that mirror the will of society to contribute and to the positive things associated with cultural memory protection. The right, therefore, wants to strengthen economic participation through the Culture Memory Fund. Maintenance and restoration costs, and public contributions are necessary to solve the main tasks. The right is pleased that Norwegian cultural heritage has finally entered the Ministry of the Environment’s support schemes. Protection through use – which is the entrance of Norwegian cultural heritage – is a key to how we make cultural memories a resource, and not least strengthens the dissemination of cultural memories to the public, and thus also the legitimacy to invest in public funds. One of the greatest challenges we have is the many private, peaceful buildings, often residential buildings, or parts of a courtyard. Here, the Right believes that the most important steps we can take are to facilitate the ability of owners to maintain them by introducing an accounting equation that allows them to deduct the cost of the tax. Another approach is that we believe that the type of buildings should be exempt from property tax. One last field I want to point out is the need to do a better job compared to the laws and regulations that apply when cultural memories are discovered on private property. It shall not be such as to find a cultural memory torpedoing any other activity and to remain alone at a significant cost to excavations or similar activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1572	The right has, at several levels, pointed to the large increase in public bureaucracy and the number of members of the department and the directorate. In this budget, particular reference is made to the fact that the number of posts held by the Directorate for Nature Management and its agencies is strongly increasing. Right is the concern about a development in which the State enters the field of landowners and local government powers. One good example of this is the creation of two new settings in the State's natural supervision relating to the new national parks Langsua in Oppland and Rohkunborri in Troms. On the right, the landowners themselves wanted to manage the private areas of Schrautvål in common, Steinsetbygda samige and Ton and Länningutslag, and to test out a model with landowner-controlled management. This was rejected by the government when the case of the Ormtjerkamp National Park was handled. Right, it's a pity that the landowners didn't get the opportunity to try out this model, and that the state should take over the responsibility for managing an area that the landowners have managed in a forward-looking way for a long time. Right is a strong defender of private property law. We see private ownership as important both as a principle and as a means of ensuring the prudent and long-term management of resources, and private ownership rights should be respected. Right means that the management of natural resources and areas has not found their finite form in Norway. Protective work is in the process of moving into a management and care phase. In the future, it becomes more important and important to focus on how to secure the natural values of the areas already protected. On 17 June 2011, a new looting agreement was concluded here at Stortinget. It's very positive that a mass accumulation was behind this agreement, and it's decisive that the government and the administration follow up on the intentions of the agreement, among other things. by ensuring the buoyancy of the grazing industry and the southern Sami domestic reindeer. The right is also very pleased that we agreed on important formulations in the agreement that all predator management should be based on scientific and clutter-based knowledge, and that emphasis should be placed on regional management, respect for the right of ownership and the quality of life of the individual and the community. This is an important change of direction in predatory game policy. Right-wing members of the Committee visited the Park of Bears in Flanders a few weeks ago, including: got information about the planned predatory centre. This centre will place great emphasis on professional insights, entertainment and knowledge dissemination, such as: shall contribute to the mitigation of conflicts. On the right, the new predatory centre in the region and other similar measures are important to increase the level of knowledge and reduce the conflicts between predators and agricultural industries. Right is pleased that the other parties agree with the comments of the Right in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1593	The Progress Party's alternative state budget is committed to having great ambitions and to acting force. We have a formidable room for action in the Norwegian economy, especially because of our oil and gas industries. We need to use it to increase our production capacity for the future. Then it's important that we make sure that the oil and gas industries can get better than they already are. We therefore strengthen our commitment to petroleum-related research and reach a level of nearly 600 million. kr, while we record that the government has actually cut off the investment in petroleum-related research while they are in power. It doesn't testify to a long-term perspective on the industry. But we also end up with renewable energy. We're strengthening the investment in hydropower. We are strengthening the focus on green technology, and we are strengthening the focus on renewable centres, i.e. on research for environmentally friendly energy technologies. This should also have been the basis of government policy if they were serious about climate. But we record that it is relatively thin, what comes from there. Unlike the government, we don't give good character to action. But we're giving good quality to results, and you can't achieve that to the extent you should. Then I have registered that especially SV has given the Progress Party criticism that we are not taking the climate seriously enough. There is a recurring debate that is more marked by the fact that the SV will not take over the answers received from the Progress Party for six years, but that SV needs an artificial enemy to hide its own lack of results. Let me therefore repeat what the representative Amundsen said so well in his response to the change in line: we are leading were. We're taking the challenge seriously. We're going to be involved in politics and help cut CO2 emissions, but we don't have a religious approach to the projects. We take the projects that are best – because we have the ability to prioritise. So these answers SV chooses to ignore to have an enemy argue against. But it will be a strawman debate instead of a real debate. Good environmental and climate policies are about having an ability to prioritise rather than just an ability to blackmail what the situation might be like. It is a bit strange to hear SV in this debate claim that the Progress Party does not have the will to cut emissions from the oil sector, while they are actually in a government that says in the oil notification that the emissions in the oil sector will increase as a result of the policy of the government itself. Then it is pointless to attack the Progress Party for a policy for which they themselves have been responsible. It is the government's own oil and energy minister who tells the media that climate policy should not underpin the oil policy pursued. So it is not the Progress Party that has said it to him. We give a lot of praise to the Minister of Oil and Energy, but sometimes we also think he's going too far. But that is not the responsibility of the Progress Party. It's SV's responsibility. I remember that SV, who says that it is important to increase the extraction rate on a Norwegian base, is therefore pursuing a policy that will increase the emissions per barrel of oil produced and not reduce them. Then one should rather shoot at himself instead of criticising the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1605	I wanted to take the floor to give a comment on predatory game, and also to the Ministry of the Environment in relation to forest. But first, I would like to comment on the subject of climate negotiations with the representative, Mr Marthinsen: yes, I think that the delegation might have been too large, and yes, as the representative, Mr Astrup, I think that if solutions are to be found, the right solutions for the future, it must actually be cross-sectoral anchoring. When we send 28 pieces from the Ministry of the Environment, one from the Ministry of Agriculture and none from the Ministry of Agriculture, I believe that this is a division of the delegation. That was my observation, and I'm going to stand by it. I believe that we need to take a real discussion on how we should come up with good solutions. So a little bit about predatory game. It is said very well about predatory game. I also notice that the entire committee has in many ways joined what the Right National Assembly said in its resolution earlier this year. It says: ‘The Committee believes that all predator management should be based on scientific and xenophobic knowledge. In addition, emphasis shall be placed on regional governance, respect for the right of ownership and the quality of life of the individual human being and the community.’;» It's very well written. If only we had been there! I want to make the Stortinget aware that we have just received a judgment in the so-called Kleiva/Dørum case in the Law of Lawyers, where the Law of Law actually says in short that Kleiva and Dørum are the last staff, and they should have given up their rights, because everyone else in Elverum has done so. This is quite dramatic, as it illustrates that there has been a policy of displacement for 15 to 20 years. If the Stortinge believes anything with the unanimous comitology, then we should also start discussing: what consequences have this had for the people who have actually been affected by the policy, and especially within the wolf zone, where all rights have been violated? So a little bit to the woods. I notice that the Ministry of Environment chooses forest as an enemy in many ways, and I think it is very sad. When the Right Growing Group asks if you can prove that the forest industry is doing a bad job, you can't do that, rather the opposite. Forestry has shown that freedom under responsibility works very well, and there are few industries that have taken such great care of it. It is documented by the 2010 Red List that there are no significant eradications of species in Norwegian forests, and a fairly good balance has been found. So my appeal to the Ministry of the Environment must be: Start cooperation! Forests are important both for nutrition and for finding good climate solutions. Rather, we should build cooperation instead of making an enemy image.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1621	Then we're doing the annual career, where the right is saying that nothing is happening at home. The national budget shows that, since 2007, the implementation of climate action has delivered between 3 and 4 million tonnes of reduced emissions in Norway. The details may not be so important to the Right. I could read out a long list of measures Right did not implement when they put in government, as we have done: we have tripled the investment in renewable energy, tripled the investments in rail, etc. You've heard that list before. I want to challenge the right back on nature protection – we got a challenge on it. I notice my great sorrow that the Right continues its cut in the Directorate of Natural Management with 40 million. kr. The proposed cut of 17 million for the Advance Party. kr, is it well, is puzzled in comparison. I'd like the Right to elaborate a little bit on how they're going to get to it, and what's the rationale behind clipping the directorate that way. I suspect that the proposal is marked by the turning point towards the Directorate for Nature Management we have seen from the Right, from the use of language here in the Chamber, where opinions from the Directorate belong ‘in the sea’ – I quote the representative of Hofstad Helleland – to these budget cuts, which are not part of a serious draft budget, and which would in no way be implemented in reality, simply because we are going to conduct a responsible employer policy here in the country as well. So in terms of cut and quotaable sector. There are some who have tried to respond to the challenges in this area in this debate by pointing out that there has been a discussion on the part of the Swedish government partners. I'm dealing with what the Prime Minister says. He concluded at the latest in the Evening Post that the Norwegian climate targets are set and that the climate communication should define the measures that will enable us to achieve those objectives. What the Right believes, there is a little more confusion about. If the allowance market is the main instrument in the ETS sector, there will not be many climate measures in the coming years. The price of the allowance is now probably about 70 kroner, and it is expected to remain quite low for quite a long time to come. So to the Progress Party's Ketil Solvik-Olsen, who's trying to present it as if it's SV that's created uncertainty about what the Progress Party thinks about man-made climate change. I'm sorry, but it's not like that. We don't need to make any imaginary enemy, that enemy is completely real, and that's because the Progress Party from this pulpit itself expresses ambitions to sit in government. Then I am interested to know what kind of climate policy the Progress Party has intended to lead. It is the figures of the Progress Party itself, from Carl I. Hagen to Siv Jensen in the traditional line-up in the debate each year, to Arne Sortevik and to Per-Willy Amundsen, who spread uncertainty about what the attitude of the Progress Party towards man-made climate change really is. It's not a religious question, it's a question of whether you're dealing with overwhelming scientific evidence or choosing to listen more to the few opponents there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1632	Let me first regret late arrival. It's due to bad flight conditions at Gardermoen. So a few words about the economic situation in Europe and Norway. Many OECD countries are now tightening public budgets, while private demand remains low and unemployment is high. The availability is likely to be high in the European context also in 2012. The situation is brighter in Norway. The decline in employment that followed in the wake of the financial crisis is now well under way. The unemployment rate has remained around 31⁄4 pst. by the labour force so far this year. The economic policy framework provides a good basis for stable economic development and sustainable public finances. Furthermore, the mainland economy has benefited from a high level of activity in the oil industry. In 2008 and 2009, increased investment in the oil industry and high activity among subcontractors helped to mitigate the backlash in the Norwegian economy. In 2010, the total demand for oil was 13 pst. of the GDP of mainland Norway. According to the SSB, investments in the petroleum industry are expected to increase by a total of 15 pst. this year. Also next year, a clear growth is expected, and investments are likely to remain high in both 2013 and 2014. This is very good. Stability and predictability provide a good framework for a high and stable level of activity over the next few years. This is good for Norway in a troubled world. World energy consumption is increasing year by year. Millions of people are being lifted out of poverty. Population growth, industrialisation and economic development increase energy consumption. This is a development that we can neither slow down nor want to slow down. However, progress is facing new challenges due to increased energy use also giving rise to increased greenhouse gas emissions. The latest long-term forecasts from the IEA – the International Energy Agency – show that fossil energy providers will dominate energy use for a long time in the future, and in a scenario where the two-degree target is reached. That means that we have to bet on many measures in parallel. Firstly, we need to invest in energy efficiency improvement. As the IEA refers to, the potential here is very high. The most environmentally friendly kilowatt hour is still the one that's not being used. We also need to invest heavily in renewable energy, and we also need to do something about the fossil energy that the world will still need. The composition of fossil fuel consumption needs to be changed, for example: from coal to gas. Furthermore, production needs to be more efficient and environmentally friendly, as does fossil energy consumption. Norway can contribute here. We have the base that is best driven, in the sense that there is the least emissions to the external environment, the least use of energy per unit of production. This is a situation that needs to be preserved and developed. The IEA report shows that coal accounts for almost half of the increase in global energy demand in the last decade. This confirms the importance of carbon capture and storage to convert to a cleaner energy future. The IEA underlines the importance of correctly appreciating energy use. The main factor in reducing CO2 emissions is a global price of CO2. If we have the power to set a proper price for emissions, the competitive relationship between fossil and renewable energy will also change in favour of renewables. Today, one fifth of Europe’s gas consumption is covered by Norwegian gas. In Europe, hydropower, but to the extent that gas power can act as a regulatory force when there is a shortage of wind and sun, will support it under the EU's renewable energy commitment. It'll take a long time before we're a zero-emission society. Gas to Europe is an action that can already bring significant emission reductions. IEA's analysis confirms what I say, gas is compatible with an ambitious climate policy. Norway’s petroleum resources are the property of the Norwegian people and will benefit the entire community. It was early established that petroleum resources were to be used to develop qualitatively better communities. This has been the starting point for the management of our resources. This is important for maintaining high value creation and employment in Norway. The activities form a central part of the Norwegian economy and have contributed greatly to the industrial development and development of the Norwegian welfare community. A large part of the revenue is due to the state and contributes to the good economy of the country — next year no less than 341 billion. kr. The oil notification, which is now being dealt with in the Storting, presents a plan to achieve long-term value creation targets. It is followed up in the State budget of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1666	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1669	It might be interesting to record the signals coming from the State Council Borten Moe. It is not entirely related to what was claimed by the representative of the Socialist Left Party, Snorre Serigstad Valen, earlier today, but we can leave that behind. Political statements at personal level have become quite common to this government, whether it be big government representatives, state secretaries or state councils. I just mention examples of oil sand in Canada, the two-thirds goal, etc. That is why I thought that I would challenge the Council of State on his personal opinion of what is perhaps one of the most important things that lie on his table in the future, which is about the areas outside the Lofoten, the Vestreålen and Senja. Is it the Council of State's view that there should be an impact assessment, or has there been a change in the perception from when you were not a member of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1676	As a government council, I represent one vision, and that's the government's view. The government has clarified its view through the Northern Region Management Plan, which was presented in winter. We are now in the process of gaining knowledge in the areas outside the Lofoten and the West Pole. We add up to a race that means we'll be done with our work, I hope, in good time before 2013. Then I'm absolutely sure there's going to be a political process towards a possible opening, where decisions in the national meetings of the different parties are going to be important. I will explain my view in good time after the knowledge acquisition has been completed, and hopefully before the Center Party will take its decision before the next majority period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1681	The Council of State was concerned with the great need for new renewable production, and we all know that one of the prerequisites for this investment is that we get a better infrastructure – that is, networks, and that is, cables. Now we had a lot of discussion when it came to the line Sima–Samnanger, and one of the elements that was given to the municipalities was to strengthen the nutrition funds of some of these municipalities – 100 million. kr. This money was taken and paid out by Statnet, not by the public as such. This is a rather new element in this kind of case, so my question to the Council of State is whether this is a sign of a new policy in this area, that municipalities can expect compensation to their nutrition funds if they have new network connections. And how much does the Council of State think this will amount to compared to someone paying these net tariffs at the other end?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1686	The simple, short and clear answer to that question is no. We propose a wide range of compensatory measures for the development of a new central network. There may be underlying networks that are being cleaned up, there may be placements and lines, but general economic compensation – as I see it is the question asked by the representative Meling – to municipalities for the construction of critical infrastructure in Norway is not opening up to them in the Energy Act today, nor will we be able to open it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1697	In the 2012 government budget, the government announced a cut in the allocations to Enova because the funds released by the establishment of the green certificate market should be withdrawn instead of being used for increased efforts in the field of energy efficiency improvement. I would like to quote from the budget proposal: ‘The Government therefore commits to withdraw funds from the Energy Fund reflecting the investment in wind power in recent years.’ In 2010, Enova announced an application round for investment aid for wind power of 1 billion. kr from the Enova budget for 2010. So the extracts, then mediated from Enova, reflect the wind power input, and will mean a close halving of Enova's available resources. This is drastic. This is money that we need to increase our investment in energy efficiency. With the input of the Council of State in mind of the importance of the IEA in terms of energy efficiency, this is not entirely appropriate. My challenge is: how are we going to be energy efficient when we halve support for Enova?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1711	Let me first use two words for a different decision The Stortinget is doing today, namely agreeing to the Treaty with Sweden on Green Certificates. It will represent a paradigm shift in the framework conditions for renewable energy deployment. Big things are happening in Norway at the moment also in this field. Then it is announced – and I think it is also reasonable, when an important task for Enova falls away – that we are going through Enova in view of both the funding framework and the total task portfolio. One billion, as the representative here draws out, is a number that's taken more or less out of the air. What's in the proposition is that it's over the last few years. It means at least that it is several years. We'll get back to Stortinget with the final solution for Enova. What I can promise is that Enova is going to get big, important and ambitious problems to solve in the time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1722	In its speech, the Council of State spent a lot of time providing IEA assessments related to climate. In the same assessments, the IEA says we have 50 pst. the chance of reaching the measure of 2 degrees. It's quite serious. There aren't many other policy areas we'd been heading for, where we'd said we had 50 pst. chance of reaching the goal that we had set ourselves, sail if we knew the goal would also have major consequences. My question to the Council of State is whether he sees that we should not just reach out for what IEA here says, but that we have to go even further in order to be able to increase the percentage, and the ability to achieve the goal, than the figures he used in his introduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1729	That is of course a relevant question. It's not against me that the world is stretching any longer. But with what has now happened in Durban fresh in memory, I think it is important to focus on just the word «world». It's the world that has to go further towards ambitious and necessary goals. The time to 2015 will show if this is possible. That is my heartfelt wish. I would also argue that in order to achieve it, there are few who contribute so actively, so strongly, and as consistently as just Norway, through a wide range of policy areas and, I would say, consistent approach to the challenge posed by international greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1736	The Council of State said at the EnergyRike Conference in Haugesund in August that he would export more gas to Europe, in the light of the fact that one should shut down, for example. the nuclear power stations there. I think that's a good idea. The Council of State, together with the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has also said that he wants to increase the national use of gas in Norway. I think that too is a good idea. At the same time, we know that the Climate and Pollution Directorate is working on projects to electrify Melkoya, where we have one of the most modern gas power plants in the world. So one here is in danger of using Norwegian hydropower to replace a modern gas power plant, while the same hydropower could replace coal power stations on the continent. Does the Council of State feel that this is a good priority for energy and climate policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1745	We might get back to that. My job is both to provide good and predictable framework conditions for Norwegian gas industry, so that we can find, extract and produce more gas, and to help facilitate an increased renewable energy share in Norway. The government does both. I think it's both right and important. So I think that when we now hopefully get the new 420 kV line built up to Finnmark, i.e. added to the central network by Troms and Finnmark, it will open up new opportunities. Something can be related to renewable energy production, but also to renewable energy consumption. Then it'll be up to the government, possibly also a large number, in the future to decide what is a reasonable disposal of our total energy resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1754	So the chord change is over. So we're going to keep going with the three-minute inserts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1759	Today, the budget is being dealt with in a situation where the crisis in the oil and gas industry has ceased. Optimism is back in the industry. It is good because this is an industry that is important to our country and that ensures jobs and value creation. But there are still major challenges. It's about making sure that the value creation benefits the whole country. It's about taking the environmental challenges seriously. I think there is particular reason to worry about what the new findings will do with the time-critical effort to increase extraction in mature fields and expansions in mature areas. Petoro is a key in that way. The government's strengthening of Petoro in this year's budget is good news, both for Rogaland and for the country. It is also essential that the Oil Directorate has the competence and resources to be active to ensure that the resource perspective is the overarching element of Norwegian oil and gas policy. A responsible oil and gas policy depends on politicians who have the ability to think in the long term and the ability to keep their heads cold when it looks dark. I have a good example from Stavanger Aftenblad on February 8th last year. Here is the leader of the Progress Party, Siv Jensen, who is unable to do this exercise, and she says, ‘Not only does Norway bear the mark of paralysis in facilitating value creation, but we are at the same time destroying Norway’s main industry, oil and gas industries. It's been a fantastic adventure, now it's confusing because the government doesn't give any gas to oil policy." The situation in the oil and gas industry today provides a basis for saying that this claim is objectively incorrect. In the Centre Party, there is also a high level of commitment to renewable energy and wind power. Once the green certificates are in place, it is important to have full pressure on the concession processes. In Rogaland we have this year opened a new, large wind farm – Høj-Jären. There were then very happy signals from the Minister for the Environment, who was present at the opening, and I expect his department to help the oil and energy minister quickly make positive, final decisions for the concessions in South Rogaland that are now being treated. I am also pleased that the target, and the investment in offshore wind power, is fixed and being followed up in the year's budget. This is about solving technological challenges. Offshore wind power is not about subsidies. These are major challenges. It requires interaction between the expertise of the oil and gas industries and that of the wind power industry, and the centre party will be on the way to making offshore wind power an important industry for Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1781	When I ask for the floor for the second time, it is because I heard the representative Nikolai Astrup, who today – as so often before – thinks that things are too late, and it is too little. But it's also that if one says things often enough, it doesn't have to be more true for it. What's important for me to point out is that it's not like it's been said from this pulpit by, among other things. Right, that we haven't followed up the climate agreement – that we haven't gotten far at all and we haven't done anything. We have implemented a number of measures in line with the climate agreement: rail investments have increased by nearly 70 pst. New requirements have been introduced for CO2 emissions for cars and more environmentally friendly CO2 taxes on cars, so that emissions from new cars fall sharply. We've discussed green certificates that need to be put in place earlier today, and we're the world leader in the development of carbon capture. If the budget is adopted as it stands, one at the end of next year will have spent as much as 7 billion. kr on carbon capture. New energy requirements for construction have been introduced. We have put in place the electrification of several fields on Norwegian base, where it is profitable, and we have introduced the EU quota system, which has triggered cuts in the quota sector in Norway as well. In addition, we have overfilled the Kyoto agreement with 10 pst. The reward arrangement agreed to double. It's done, and you've strengthened the system by 100 million. I'm going to have to add a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little The government has proposed and adopted in the past, and has also proposed in next year's budget, that we increase in environmental research and monitoring. So when the picture is created that nothing is done, I think it's important to come up with something that might be perceived as an outline, but that's true when it comes to doing a lot of things. We've also done things in time. So that's how we're going to get a climate announcement on the table for Stortinget next year. There is no doubt that the delays in setting up an international climate agreement, the financial crisis in Europe and the evolution of the quota price clearly show that this is going to be challenging. Nevertheless, I am convinced that with the policy put forward by this government so far, we will also be able to get on the table a good climate message, which I hope – when that time comes – there will be broad support in this house.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1798	My post was actually based on the main post of the representative Serigstad Valen, but after hearing the representative Sund, it is clear that in many ways we must be in the goal of climate action. I don't think so. The representative, Serigstad Valen, was concerned about the environmental problem. It's clear that it's an area that's very important, and that we need to pay a lot of attention to. The aim of the 2008 climate agreement, which also included SV, was to reduce domestic CO2 emissions by between 15 and 17 million tonnes by 2020. This has been discussed a lot since 2008, but the question is: Is it achieved – have you managed to achieve this? We've spent a third of our time until 2020. The representative Serigstad Valen will also, in order to achieve the climate goals, add 50 pst. the reserves of gas and oil in the Norwegian sector remain in the ground. Now I see that the representative Serigstad Valen is not present in the Chamber, but I still have to ask whether SV conducts a realistic and responsible policy. Does SV have other data on the production of renewable energy to be used during a transitional period, since the oil is to be found in the ground? Can SV really defend that 50 pst. of the petroleum reserves remain in the ground? Is this requirement as unrealistic as the fact that SV would prohibit the sale of petrol and diesel cars after 2015? My claim is that SV would like to save the environment, but it does very little because this desire is being put into practice. Norway’s CO2 emissions have increased in recent years, not decreased. What does the government – and especially SV – do to approach the intention of the climate agreement? Does the representative Serigstad Valen agree with LO Chief Flåthen and State Secretary Per Rune Henriksen that the climate agreement needs to be changed, as the costs in the agreement are far too high as they are today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1817	The right is concerned that we should have a comprehensive policy for cultural heritage, and the policy of cultural heritage is currently managed by several ministries. One is, of course, the Ministry of the Environment, which has the cultural memory protection – which we might have talked about here today. The second is the Ministry of Education, which is responsible for education in this field. The third is the Ministry of Culture, which manages the policy of the intangible cultural heritage and of the museums. A comprehensive policy is, of course, about seeing these instruments in context, see where one thing matters to the other. Today, for example, it is a significant challenge in the field of cultural memory that the Ministry of Education refuses to ensure that the necessary training is in place so that we can get the craftsmen we need in the museums or in other cultural memory protection. One thing is the government's refusal of private solutions. We have an example from my home country, Oppland: Hjerleid is a high school where woodcuts were basically the theme, and where one also wanted to continue this with forging. It has proved to be difficult. In other crafts too, the lies have signalled private school solutions. So it hasn't been done under this government. At the same time, there is no initiative on how to think about public solutions. At the same time, we also see that the grant schemes, which apply to the small and protective subjects, also do not become permanent, nor are they built on a scale that makes them more important. Freedom policy is also important for cultural memory protection – and fiscal policy is. There is a broad range of areas at all, and it is difficult to see that the Ministry of Environmental Protection or its political leadership is a central precursor to policy development. In this debate, cultural memory protection is scarcely mentioned. It is understandable in the sense that there are other major and important issues that this Committee is dealing with, but it must not be in consequence that there is no development of policy in the field of cultural memory. That's the feeling you have: little comes from the government that actually develops policies for this field, the area. This area had earned better. A professional debate and political attention had helped to strengthen this area and led to positive publicity, contrary to the fact that there is now only a negative outlook on the conflicts associated with cultural memory protection. A strengthened political process, a strengthened political dynamic, would strengthen the entire cultural memory protection and provide a deceptive climate around this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1831	It's a little interesting to experience this debate, because it shows a government that's in complete conflict with itself. One thing is that the opposition gets criticism from the government sometimes because we don't always agree – we don't have a right – but a government will talk with one voice, and it won't. Because when the Progress Party in this room talks about Industry Energy's predictions, we get fucked by SV. But when the Minister of Oil and Energy talks about the same forecasts, that's fine. Then we hear nothing from SV. I also record that the Minister of Oil and Energy stressed here that he spoke with only one voice – not his personal, only on behalf of the government. The government's view is more gas exports, there's more gas consumption nationally. It must mean increased production – and it is the oil policy that SV is and supports. Then I interpret Serigstad Valen's attack on the Progress Party more as an expression of aggression against own energy policy rather than the substance of the Progress Party's policy. I hope we have a clearer debate. I don't think the climate debate will be very good when we have an environmental protection minister talking about the climate agreement setting the globe on a new course. He has obviously forgotten to tell those who negotiated in Durban, who talk about the climate turmoil having biblical proportions, who believe that the researchers who are critical are corrupt, and who believe that the policy of the Progress Party is a threat to millions of people. It's going to be a pointless debate. On the other hand, it would be interesting if SV were involved in the debate to compare the oil notification and the climate policy that has been notified, to see if it is related, because it obviously does not. But there we don't get good answers. Then the representative said Pollestad that he had read in Stavanger AFTENblaD that Siv Jensen had spoken about oil policy, almost two years ago. That quotation must then be read in the historical context in which it was pronounced. At that time the government did not have an oil report – it had almost not announced that an oil report would come. On the contrary, there was a debate in which SV went out and talked about that one had to get a liquidation trend for Norwegian oil production. Yes, SV said we had to steer young people away from petroleum-related education. That's what worried the Progress Party. Then, fortunately, we have had good prices of oil. We have got new findings – not because of adopted government policies, but simply because we have good technologists and engineers in Norway. It saved the government. We're happy about this, but one should remember the story. Here, an attempt must not be made to quote people out of context. On the other hand, it would have been very interesting if the Centre Party and Pollestad could explain how Norway would build 1000 windmills in Rogaland, as he ordered in the election campaign. In that case, it would have fulfilled more than the entire green certification system for Norway only in the county, and I doubt that the government is behind it. Then I am glad that the representative Serigstad Valen is back again, because he should have heard his government colleague, the representative Sund, who was honest about the government's policy when it came to electrifying Norwegian fields. They have done so where it has been profitable, and it supports the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1846	I almost had to redraw, because I had forgotten my pen up here. The representative Valen criticises the Right for ambiguity in climate policy. Rarely has the term ‘not to be thrown with a stone when sitting in a glass house’ come to be better than at the moment. There is complete chaos in the government over important areas of climate and energy policy. There is uncertainty about who is speaking on behalf of the government. Now state councillor Borten Moe has determined that he is at least speaking on behalf of the government. Does Per Rune Henriksen speak on behalf of the government? Is Kjetil Lund talking on behalf of the government? Is Erik Solheim speaking on behalf of the government? Does Kristin Halvorsen speak on behalf of the government? This is uncertain, because it is completely unclear what the government thinks about everything from national emissions cuts, the rate of extraction on the base, oil sands, the EU fuel directive – to mention something. Then it becomes relatively special, not to say comical, when Serigstad Valen tries to question the Right View of Climate Policy. It's about sweeping at your own door before you criticize others. The government has submitted a climate notification before. The only party that was satisfied with that climate announcement was the Progress Party, which the representative Serigstad Valen has spent considerable time rushing into the climate debate in recent years. So once again, it's about getting up with a successor that's significantly better than the original one. The problem is – as we have tried to say several times – that every day we expose this climate communication, it becomes more expensive and more demanding to achieve the goals we have set ourselves in the climate agreement. Instead of having a debate about who thinks what, we might want to start doing something. I would like to say to the representative of Sund: Jada, something has been done, but in the 2012 state budget, there is a long way between new measures. Something's done between 2007 and now, and well it is, but it could have been done so much, very much more. It represents lost opportunities for Norway, and it makes it more expensive for us to achieve the goals we have set ourselves. If the government does not come up with a climate announcement that is ambitious enough for us to reach the goals we have set, it will soon not be possible to achieve them – simply because there are technological and time barriers that stand in the way. So briefly on the Directorate of Nature Management: Yes, we want a little bit less for bureaucracy and a little bit more for the environment. Now the budget for DN has increased from 78 million. SEK in 2005 to SEK 196 million. kr in 2012. Let me remind you that SV still says that we got so much under Børge Burnde. Well, we got to a lot less than half the budget, and I'm sure we can get to a lot with a little bit less bureaucracy and a lot more to the environment than this government adds up to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1859	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox Then we proceed to the handling of case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1498]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1877	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 30 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 35 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 5 minutes. The President will inform you that right here has given 5 minutes to the Christian People's Party. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group and up to five lines with replies from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1890	Today, we are presenting the proposal for a new disability benefit and an old age pension for disabled people. It's been a long process. We should be able to balance very many different considerations. The attitude we're presenting answers to the different challenges in a good way. Our main task was to ensure a good income for those who cannot work because of sickness, injury or Lying. We need to ensure that working always pays off and thus support the workline. We need to make sure that young people who become disabled have good living conditions. At the same time, we must ensure that disability benefits are sustainable in the long term. We have to limit the number of people who become disabled by strengthening their efforts early in the process. These are the main features of the proposal: the rules for new disability benefits and a new old-age pension for disabled persons will enter into force in 2015. The current situation will be less affected by the reform, although some changes will also apply to them. The disability benefit for new workers shall be 66 pst. of previous income. This is slightly higher than today's average performance. The default benefit shall continue to be a permanent hedge of income. We have prioritised that those who are unable to combine work and social security receive a good benefit. We are now taxing the disability benefit as a salary. For today's work, we increase the gross paid disability benefit in order to compensate for this; so they get about the same net paid as before after the conversion. The tax conversion contributes to the absence of losses in net paid income for those who combine work and social security, which could be at risk in the old scheme. Today, retirement benefits are calculated in the same way as retirement pensions. The new disability benefit shall be calculated on the basis of the income of the three best of the five years before disability occurred. This gives you a better relationship between the income you lose and what you get. A new system will be put in place which will make it easier to combine disability benefits and work. In the new scheme it will always pay to work more. Disadvantages will be reduced when labour income increases, but the reduction only comes when labour income is higher than approximately NOK 31700, which is 0.4 G. For today’s losses, this limit from the introduction of the new scheme until 2019 will be NOK 60000. The system of revaluation of the unemployability if the labour income exceeds 1 G and one year's waiting time before new workers can try out in the labour market is lost, and we continue that the pay bonus from the VTA scheme, Permanently arranged work, does not provide a curtailment. The curtailment of the revenue in addition to the amount of the free will be at the same rate as the level of compensation. The Committee has noted, inter alia: after recording during the hearings that for some with a previously very low income, this would result in a curtailment of up to 83 pst. We believe that this is too weak an incentive to work. Therefore, the Committee amends § 12-8 and increases the minimum previous income used to calculate the default. This group would then have a pre-tax abbreviation of about 70 pst. There's also a change to make the abbreviation for married and lonely equal. There is a unanimous committee in favour of this amendment. Today's children's children's supplements are being continued, but the facility of the supplement will be re-assessed in the context of the treatment of the Brochmann Committee and in the light of the setting of the Distribution Committee. We've chosen to let the transition to an age pension for those who are covered by a new retirement model in the population, take place at 67 years. Pension earners are granted at 62 years of age. This ensures a good old-age pension for disabled people. The pension income is calculated as if you were still at work. In some cases, the old-age pension is not covered by the age adjustment. The display is 0,25 percentage points per new year's coal. In the light of the adaptation of the work to be carried out in the coming years, a specific protection system should be designed in 2018 and, where appropriate, how. The new system will ensure financial security for those who cannot work. The proposal makes it easier to combine disability and work. Our goal is to reduce the number of disabled people and to make it easier to work when health makes it possible. Disadvantage becomes more and more a safety net. We continue the system of freezing the disability benefit for up to five plus five years if you work so much that the payment of the disability benefit ceases, i.e. more than 80 pst. Many of the discussions and debates that have been taking place during the drafting of the proposal have been about how we can reduce the proportion of people who suffer. In that debate, it has been pointed out on several occasions that we have many working-age people who are receiving social security benefits because of health problems and that the proportion of disability benefits in our country has increased. Both of these statements are valid, but they're just telling us a part of the truth. Another aspect of this picture is that we have a very high level of employment and that it has increased sharply. The proportion of the population participating in the labour force has increased more than that of the unemployed. We have many in social security, but also many in work, so the image and the truth have more shades. The strength we have as a nation is the high level of employment. Therefore, we will strengthen the work of getting more people into work and more people to do more work. For example, in the course of our work, we have: Look at how many people in the different age groups get pregnant, we've looked at what diseases and injuries they have, and we've looked at the level of education. We've noticed that there's a slight drop in the proportion of the elderly that's going to be disabled. It may have several reasons, but we would like, among other things, point to better work environment, less physically burdensome work tasks and good seniority measures as important factors. That is why it is important to ensure that this is a development that we are continuing. We see that there is an increase in the proportion who have mental disorders. Good health care must be followed up. We have to be able to continue the transparency that is created around this topic. What worries us all the most is the increase that we see among young people who become disabled. There's a small group that's going to be disabled, but the consequences are going to be great for these kids. Work is a major part of our identity. It gives us social networks and belonging. Labour relations are also the strongest factor in preventing poverty. That's why we're giving priority to increasing the effort above just this group. Young people under the age of 30 are at the demanding stage of entering the labour market. For this group, we prioritise increased efforts for follow-up and action. Most over 30 years have completed their education and established themselves in the workplace. The age group is chosen because the measures we have today are specifically targeted at those who are at work. Strict demands are made on the employer, the employee and the hub to ensure that arrangements and arrangements are made to be able to stand in the job. These are actions that are being continued or reinforced. The new system will contribute to the participation of more people with reduced and variable working capacity in the labour market. It will be very important for us to follow up the reform of the labour market with a reinforced line of work. The use of labour market measures, the practice of legislation in social security schemes and the role of the doctor and the State of Labour and Welfare in emergency situations shall be reviewed in order to increase the focus on activity and work. We have entered into a new agreement on inclusive working life. In this year's budget, we have chosen to strengthen Nav, which has a key role to play in implementing measures in the period before any disability benefit is granted. In this year's budget, we have also put in place a strategy to get disabled people into work. Here we have given particular attention to the transition between education and work. When dealing with the work environment communication, it is important that we pass on a law that helps us to have a working life that we can cope with. As part of the work on the bill, there have been meetings with the opposition parties in the Stortinget that are behind the pension agreement – the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. It is therefore a pleasure to be able to present a proposal that has a long way to go with a consensus among pensioners. The proposal has been designed through constructive discussions and contributions from all parties. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Committee and the Hearing Officers for their good input, good debate and good cooperation in designing a new disability benefit and old-age pension for the disabled, which is now based on a broad majority in the Grand Duchy. Then I have to make it clear that in an incursion it has infiltrated an error pressure in the settings that have been distributed. For page 22, second column, fourth paragraph, the words ‘and’ and ‘for poison’ shall be deleted. The sentence then becomes: «In the case of flat income before disability, not less than 3,5 times the basic amount.» With this, I would like to say that the majority of the committee agrees with the government's proposal for a new disability benefit and an old-age pension for the changes that we have mentioned, which relate to Sections 12 to 8, and which have been explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1940	The size has recorded this correction. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1945	It's nice to be described as a friend for once – we appreciate that. The government has chosen to postpone the assessment of the child supplement and announced that it will be assessed in the follow-up to the Brochmann Committee. My question to the representative is whether that means that the government will still look at different models for the children's supplement and look at models that may mean that some can get fewer child supplements than they get today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1952	It's always fun to be able to talk about right as a friend, we're going to try to do that more often, when they can agree with us as a government party. In the context of the children’s supplement, it is important for us to look at a comprehensive measure that is capable of protecting the young people living in low-income families. It is important to us that we do not make different arrangements for those who have labour income and those who have social benefits. That's why we're saying we're going to get back to the Brochmann Committee, because that's where you look at all the different arrangements. How we want to design it, we need to evaluate it carefully when we take that round, but it's important to us that it's the children we focus on, and that it's those who get a good life, with a family income that actually manages to meet the needs that children have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1959	Thank you to the representative Brandvik for a good report and for a good job as a case rapporteur. I would like to address one of the very important issues raised by the representative Brandvik in the post himself, namely the young people who have been miscarried and the importance of both prevention and taking care of them when they have been disabled. Because it's kind of running two. One is that it's to make that the least possible failure. There is early effort and close follow-up and the course that, among other things, are in work strategy and other points. But then it's also that piece when they've fallen asleep. Before a person becomes disabled, he has a lot of contact with different authorities, but when he has lost his job, he somehow loses contact with Nav. The Christian People's Party has a proposal in the matter today that goes on that a wish for a closer follow-up even after one has fallen short. Because, as the representative was inside, the shape and health change, and maybe a few people can get back some work. If you had a close dialogue and follow-up, you might have been informed about different schemes and were encouraged more. I note that the Labour Party is voting against the proposal. But what other measures has the Workers' Party, or the Government, for these after those there have been deposed?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1970	First of all, I'm very happy with the cooperation we've had, and I just want to sign it out right away. It's been fun. With regard to the proposal of the Christian People's Party to have a permanent follow-up meeting with young people every year, as they have outlined in the text, it is about giving us a lasting mischief. But we have to be open to look at this. If the meeting is going to be fixed for everyone every year, we're a little bit doubtful if it's the right form. But that's a constructive and good recording, I can just sign out right away. That's exactly why we, among other things. Reiterates that the use of labour market measures, the practice of legislation and the social welfare system and the role of doctors and workers' and welfare seats in cases of misconduct should be reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1977	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e1980	In Norway, there has been strong political agreement on the basic principles of a comprehensive welfare system. It is important to ensure income in the event of loss of income due to failing health, and it is important to ensure health and care services for all. The Norwegian economy offers us good opportunities to ensure good welfare arrangements. At the same time, there may be challenges related to the financing of the welfare society of the future. The Progress Party believes it is essential that people perceive that welfare economic arrangements benefit those who need it, and that they are not abused by people who can handle themselves. If the arrangements are perceived as being self-selected in practice, it would be difficult to ensure the termination of the arrangements. The Party notes that there has been a significant increase in the number of recipients of disability benefits over the past 30 years. In 1980 there were under 160 000 beneficiaries, while in the first half of this year the number had increased to 303 000. On the basis of the government's proposals for the 2012 government budget, it appears that the cost of misappropriation amounts to about 20 pst. of the costs of popular protection. The corresponding figures from 1980 were 12.6 p.m. and a total payment is expected for disability benefit in 2012 of 58.7 billion. kr, while if we compare – even with G-regulation – the 1980 figures, they amount to 17.6 billion. kr. The party of progress is deeply concerned about the growing proportion of people who leave the labour market and move on to permanent disability. Furthermore, the Party will stress that persons who are unable to participate in the labour market because of sickness, injury or hearing, shall be provided with a social security scheme to enable a decent life to be lived. The Progress Party shares many of the government's proposals for new disability benefits, and we also want to pay tribute to the government for taking some good, sensible and forward-looking steps in the design of new disability benefits. Nevertheless, the Progress Party has also chosen to make a number of proposals for changes to the government's original proposal. Let me then underline the principles of the Advance Party, in the form of its thinking around disability. First of all, we believe that working must always pay off. I don't think there's much disagreement about that at all in this house. In addition, we suggest that no one under 40 years of age should be given permanent disability benefits, unless it is quite obvious that they can never have the opportunity to participate in the labour market. We believe that young people should instead have coherent support and patient efforts in a development process. Of course, people who are unable to work because of injury or disease, as I said instead, should have a good income insurance in the new disability insurance scheme, also as the Progress Party sees it. The overall performance considers that the Progress Party should not exceed the previous salary level. The need shall be verifiable at regular intervals. With this in mind, the Progress Party believes that it must also be opened up to allow for better and more flexible grading of disability benefits than the government proposes, and that it must also be possible to reconsider the disadvantages if new situations arise that make it reasonable. We want it to be a minimum benefit for those who do not have employee income or who have had too low income to earn the minimum level, at a level of living. I want to comment on some of our suggestions. Let me start with the proposal that no one under 40 years of age should be offered permanent disability benefits, unless it is quite obvious that they cannot come back to work. One of my everyday role models is Steffen Johansen, 21 years old from Nord-Trøndelag, from the municipality of Røyrvik. I just want to show you the front of Namdalsavisa from December last year. It shows Steffen, who after an accident was paralyzed from the chest down, but still had a dream of becoming a wheel loader driver. He chose to continue his education. He went to various companies on his own to see if he could get an apprenticeship. The challenges were many in view of the fact that there had never been a situation in which such a student would practice a profession as a wheel loader driver. A wheel loader had never been rebuilt in Norway before for people who were lame from the chest down. Steffen encountered many problems, but he did not, as I said. Finally, he got in touch with the Forgetty Entrepreneur in Namsos, a company that does not have an IA agreement, and that met many major challenges because the wheel loader was not organized by Nav. This meant that the company itself took part of the costs, while the county council went in and guaranteed part of the financial. This resulted in Steffen having completed his apprenticeship contract, and he has done the job in an excellent way. I've been so lucky and myself had the joy of meeting Steffen at the workplace, where he was hugely torn, and where he makes a huge effort in his wheel loader, even though he's paralyzed from the chest down. The alternative to Steffen was dissatisfaction, a dissatisfaction he initially would not have, because he wants to participate in the working life. I am quite convinced that there are many young people under 40 who are in Steffen's situation, who with a little bit more organisation, with their own programme where they are closely followed up and facilitated, can give them the opportunity to realize their big dream, namely to participate in the working life. That is why the Progress Party has chosen to address that principle. I would also like to comment on some of the other proposals that the Progress Party has included in the vote. But first, I would like to draw up some of the figures that those of us who were at the annual conference of the Employers' Association for Growing Companies –ASVL – got, where some master students from Norway's School of Commerce had done a very exciting and interesting master's task of looking at the effect not only in terms of permanent work – VTA – but also in terms of residual working capacity and disability. What's going on in that master problem? Well, it's important that disability reflects actual working capacity. In the 2010 state budget, 24.1 pst. of those who were completely disabled, an average labour income of 0,66 G. That is over the amount of the free money that the government has set aside. It also shows, the Progress Party believes, that it makes sense to have a slightly higher amount of free time, precisely because those with low residual working capacity are given the opportunity to fully exploit their residual working capacity. What will be the result for many of these is that the tax system will start to apply after passing the zero G free income limit. This means that the residual working capacity of the last 0.26 G will be much less economically profitable to exploit. I think that's unfortunate for that group. I am aware that the Storting and the Committee have made changes to the curtailment system for those with low incomes, which is positive. But still, for this group, it might not be so attractive to take advantage of its entire residual capacity. I think that's unfortunate. Therefore, the Progress Party has chosen to propose a free amount of 0,75 G. The Party considers that it is important to facilitate those who benefit from disability. We should remember that here we are talking about people who are basically unable to participate in work, people with strong disabilities, people with severe disabilities, and maybe chronic diseases. Then it's important that these people are facilitated, that they get a good performance that allows them to have a decent life. This is why the Progress Party wants to increase the performance of young people and also promotes proposals to that effect. At the same time, we want to remove the abbreviation from civil status for all disabled people. As is well known, since 1989 the party has gone in to remove the abbreviation for married and cohabiting pensioners and believes that the same must also apply to disabled persons. For me, this is a little special and a little strange, because in the government's original proposal regarding what was also changes made in the committee, this with the differentiation of civil status was initially not included in the bill. Something came in – at least as I see it, I may be wrong – for that group at the end, if you read the legal text. But in any case, the Progress Party is aware that there is no desire for differentiation of civil status in terms of performance. In addition, we have seen that there has been a major debate related to the children’s supplement, which was one of the debates that took place largely in the media before the miscommunication was presented. The progress party seems to have been unfortunate what we have seen some examples of earlier, where the sum of defaults and additional benefits has been higher than what they previously had in income. It has also been part of the criticism of the system, that it has been difficult to get people back to work because you might not have as much left to go back to work. That's why we think it's important and correct, as the Appeals Committee also points out, that you should set an upper limit on how much you can have together in terms of disability and supplementation, compared to what you used to have in income. There the Progress Party proposes a limit of 80 pst. At the same time, the Progress Party is also pleased that the government is cleaning up the previous debate on social security, and that it is clear that the social security period will be 40 years. The Progress Party supports that decision. But what we think is a little strange is that if you come to Norway, work in Norway and have a social security period of 19 years, you get 19/40 parts out of Norway if you choose to leave Norway. If you are here for more than 20 years – one year longer – you will also get the projection effect and complete unpredictability out of Norway. The Progress Party believes that it would have been much more fair, logical and sensible to introduce a social security period, to set maximum social security time of 40 years, and that it is the actual social security period you can take out in any case. We hope, even if it is voted down in the Chamber here today, that there is something the government can at least assess and take along. We know that there will be a major debate related to the Brochmann Committee, and we also know that there will be adaptation rules in disability insurance until it will be implemented in 2015. So I'm going to use the last few minutes in another area that's been challenging, that's lifestyle adjustment. We know that once the retirement pension system has been adjusted to a standard of living, and if you were to cover the disability benefit for your whole life, it would mean that many people who get ill will be able to get a better retirement pension than one who works until he is 67 in some cases. The majority believe that the Storting is unfortunate, because that is not the way it should be. For this reason, life expectancy adjustment is also introduced for the old age pension of disabled persons. At the same time, there is also a screening to ensure that in some cases those who have gone on disability benefits can get a better retirement pension than those who work until they are 67 years old. The progress party thinks it's wrong about the idea that it should always pay to work. So it would be natural for the person who has worked up to 67 years to be left with a little more in retirement than one who has been dissatisfied, at least when you have the pension system you have — there are some of the major challenges with the pension system, and the challenges that life-age adjustment itself poses problems and creates. That's why I'm very happy that the Progress Party was the only party on the Stortinget that went against lifestyle adjustment. We are promoting a new proposal to eliminate the lifestyle adjustment for both disabled and old-age pensioners, so that you get a similar system, ensure equal benefits, as you had in the past: whether you were unsatisfied or at work. For the last five seconds, I would like to take up the suggestions that the Progress Party has made and that are in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2037	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2042	Some of the things that come to us at Stortinget are about people who dance around the Nav system year after year, are sick, have injuries, don't get disability, don't get a job – are struggling at all and end up in very difficult life situations. I now register that the Progress Party wants this dance to last up to 20 years for those who are too sick to work and are under 40 years. It will make it impossible for people who are not born ill, to get disability benefit before they are 40. There is an uncertainty that will plague sick people who have problems getting work. It's very hard to know if you're getting well, for example. of a mental illness when you are 20 years old, but insecurity of income over many years is hardly what makes these people get a job. How can the Progress Party defend the fact that people should be in this round dance for 20 years until they are safe?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2049	Firstly, the Progress Party does not want a round dance for disabled people for 20 years. I don't understand where Andersen's representative came from. The proposal of the Progress Party does not apply to those who obviously cannot come back to work again. A close follow-up programme with its own performance is sought at the same level as the default performance. You should not lose income on it, but you should check out the disability much more clearly, especially given that six out of ten under 40 years of age are dissatisfaction because of a mental disorder. Then I think it's going to be wrong to label people with mild mental disorders permanently out of work instead of giving them the opportunity by a better and closer follow-up to get back to work. This is the policy of the Progress Party in this area. If it is obvious that they cannot come back to work, it is also clear in our proposal that they should be granted and given disability benefits.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2056	The Progress Party has proposed a number of measures that will increase the cost of the reform: reduced entry conditions, no lifestyle adjustment, a more favourable basis for calculation, removal of civil status differentiation and increased benefits for young people. It is good to be liberal, but we do not find any figures, and I did not hear in the speeches by the representative Eriksson what is in the long term the price of the proposals of the Progress Party – the measures they have proposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2063	I don't know if the representative Pollestad asked for a proceeds response. In that case, I have no proceeds. I think it would be as uncertain an estimate of such a proceeds as that contained in the government's proposal for a new disability benefit and in relation to the cost estimates. What's the point of the Progress Party is that we're increasing the benefits of young people just because they're supposed to be able to have a decent life, because it's a group that can't be in the world of work and that has no working reserve and can combine social security and work as much as all the others. Then we believe it is important, in order to avoid poverty, to ensure good performance for that group. I am very pleased that the Progress Party has been called for, and that the Progress Party is proposing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2070	It was good to hear Robert Eriksson's posts, and it was good that he arrived at the right time – it has been a demanding day in many ways. I have gone through the proposals of the Progress Party quite thoroughly to see where they want to take the main steps, what are the changes, what is the direction, and where is the distinction going. The simple summary is that you stand out when it comes to a lot. But I've tried to evaluate these arrangements, and I can't find a precise direction. Would you like to tighten up your disability benefits in order to reduce disability benefits, or would you like to extend the amounts, so that it becomes more favourable? It looks like a lot of these measures hit those who used to have the lowest income, while it's an advantage for those who used to have higher incomes. I want a little clarification of the direction in which the Progress Party wants to go in terms of future disability pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2077	Firstly, the Progress Party wants to take a number of measures linked to following up people so that they can return to work. In this way, we hope that it will help to reduce the number of disabled people. We have promoted a number of these proposals in our alternative state budget. With regard to the performance of those who are unfit, the Party of Progress does not want a tightening of the performance level. For the most vulnerable groups, we want – as I have said earlier – an increase in these benefits, precisely for them to have a good income hedge. Here it is fully possible to have two thoughts in your head at the same time, both to get more people to contribute and be in the labour market – therefore also the own programme for them under 40 years – and to ensure good benefits for those with low income. That's where we agree with the new abbreviation proposed by the government. So I don't quite understand how Brandvik has come up with that reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2084	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2087	President, I'd almost said comrades, but I guess that's not going to be right. Today, we are modernising one of the most important parts of the welfare state. When the popular fear was adopted in 1967 under the Civil Borten government, it was the culmination of a long development that had taken Norway from relative poverty to wealth. Norway could afford public welfare schemes. But this development had also done something with our view of well-being. Welfare services had previously been varied, from poor funds and targeted payments to voluntary insurance schemes, non-profit institutions or trade unions. But with the establishment of popular fear, the principle of welfare rights was seriously shattered. Behind this development was what we might call the summary of the philosophy of the Norwegian system: each should have, regardless of income and background, a basic safety net for old age and in case of illness. At the same time, high levels of professional participation in the population are required. So our basic security is based on a premise that there is as much work as possible in the workplace, and it is based on Norwegian labor ethics: adult, healthy and responsible people's duty to do their utmost to support themselves and their loved ones. In other words, our welfare system is based not only on an economic model, but on a kind of social contract where everyone who is healthy contributes to the fissure layer also for those who get sick. We're going to have decent arrangements for those who can't work, but at the same time, our system must be fair to those who are working. The system must be fair and reasonable not only for those on high pay but also for workers on medium or low pay. There are very turbulent times in the world around us. In Norway, we have not yet been hit hard, but we know that the difficulties are likely to reach us too. That is exactly why it is essential that we reform our welfare systems in good times, when we have profits and the ability to change. Saying no to all changes does not mean that things remain as they are — rather opposite. This means that if the dam first bursts, the damage gets bigger. Therefore, the Right has not only been involved in a major reform of our old age pension, but will also be contributing today to a broad majority for large parts of the disability reform. So we're a conciliator. I see in some newspapers today that SV has posts that show that they have not registered that the Right is a settlement partner in the new bad reform, but we are. We have great challenges. If we look from 1980 to today, we have got more into work, but at the same time we find that the Norwegian model is delicious. There's going to be more failure, and if you look at it historically, the increase is greatest in difficult times. The ageing composition of the Norwegian population suggests that we can have more disabled people, while at the same time attracting higher education and better public health, to mention something, in the opposite direction. Most worrying is the large increase in the proportion of young people unemployed — not least if this increase continues as this age cohort grows older, adult seniors. Many people are too sick to work – let’s just make it clear – but it’s naive to think that health issues alone determine how many people are getting ill. It's naive, and it's in conflict with the research we know. It's also important how the misfits are arranged. The Ministry writes on page 53 of the proposal — and refers, quite correctly, to research — that ‘it is found that the expected pension has a statistically demonstrable effect on the probability of becoming a disability pensioner’. That's why the red-green majority, in the form of a comment, rejects the fact that such a relationship exists. There's obviously a disagreement between the department and the red-green ones on the Stortinget. Nevertheless, it is good that the proposal in many areas is based on ideas and ideas that have also been promoted by the Right in recent years. For many years, we have arranged for a more flexible transition between social security and work to ensure that working is worthwhile. The new misfit is precisely based on such an approach angle. That also means that we have to change our view of what the disability benefit is. Today, in many ways, the scheme is passive, and it does not take into account that many people have a health situation that varies – it's not like you're 100 pst. unable to work all the time. But too many have been the message from the system. The new disability benefit must be seen as a basic safety net at the bottom, but at the same time the reform we are adopting today ensures that working alongside pays off. We are also pleased that the government parties have listened to the recordings from the Right and Christian People's Party and have helped ensure that it pays a little more to work for those who have the lowest income. Other major steps in the reform are also supported by the Right. At the same time, the Right stresses that the most important thing is that the reform works and that it contributes to the best possible combination of social security and work. The right is therefore of the opinion that we must continue to monitor the impact of the reform in practice, and we regard it as natural with a thorough evaluation of the reform in 2018. Right-wing support for large parts of the reform, because it is in line with things we have been raising for many years, but we also see weaknesses in the reform. I want to spend the time on two of these. The right believes that a transition to an old-age pension for disabled people at 62 years of age would have given them an excessively low age pension. That is why we support the government's proposal to earn an old age pension until the age of 62, with a transition to an old age pension from the age of 67. But the government at the same time adds up to what the Right believes is an unreasonable arrangement by having a partial shielding of living age adjustment for disability. It's worth remembering what the Right Party and the Government Party put together when we dealt with Prop. 82 L for 2009-2010. I quote: ‘The majority of the Committee would also point out that very many people with a disability pension are using the option of earning up to 1 G without being curtailed. [[...]] The majority would stress that there are many people who do not have a disability pension but who will nevertheless not find it favourable or possible to work after the age of 67.» It is not that anyone who cannot or does not want to work beyond the age of 60 is too sick to work or should have disability benefits. A few years ago, we talked a lot about the workers in the workplace, those who, through a long working life, had worn out and stood on. There are many who are tired after a long work life, and there are many who want to retire early, perhaps even many who should retire earlier, but they are not necessarily too sick to work. They do not necessarily qualify for disability benefit. As Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg pointed out for some time back in his customary pedagogical manner, a protection of living age adjustment will result in a comparison of two 64-year-olds, one of whom is disabled and the other with retirement pensions – both with the same income history – being disabled, getting a better pension than the one who is struggling for the rest of his life. In the Right's view, that's unreasonable. We will therefore vote against the proposal for Section 19-9(a) of the People's Security Act. The right also calls for increased efforts to be made towards young disabled people. We believe that today’s system refers too many to a passive life in social security. The Brochmann Committee clearly demonstrated the challenges of the child supplement. In the case of a single child with an income of up to NOK 350000 in working life, the child allowance will result in a level of compensation of over 100 pst. Let me in plain text say what that means. This means that a single mother who gets up every day to go to work, who spends money on a bus or car, on lunch or lunch, and on work clothes, and comes home tired after a long day at work, gets less paid than a person in exactly the same situation that is not at work. And that's not true, of which someone has tried to give the impression, just for those with very, very low income. 350,000 kroner is a fairly common salary in Norway. This is unreasonable. At the same time, we need to think carefully about what changes we are making. For example, an absolute percentage limit on how much can be paid out of the previous salary — for example: 80 or 90 pst. – could be very unreasonable for some low-income groups. If the principle is to be implemented consistently, it means, in practice, that you can no longer have a minimum amount of people's security. The right is therefore in favour of the government returning to the Stortinget with a scheme for a new child supplement. We have also recorded that even though SV has previously said that it is not appropriate to accept changes in the level of disability benefits or benefits, that is not what the government has announced. The disability Stortinget decides today, will in many ways be better than the disability pension that we put behind us. At the same time, it's just a small step towards addressing one of the really big challenges we have: that too many fall out of work. For the right, the workline has been central, and in many cases, we have therefore cooperated with the Workers' Party. We are also doing so in parts of this bad reform. At the same time, we are taking the opportunity to say clearly that the need for reforms with this is not over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2132	The President assumes that the representative of Røe Isaksen intended to address the proposal that has been put forward by the Right in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2135	The representative of the Red Isaac is so polite that he does not speak beyond speaking time, but he will take up the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2141	Then the president and the representative are in complete agreement. The representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen has thus taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2146	I am pleased that the Right largely supports most of the government's reform – with the exception of one point, and that is the point of living-age adjustment. Life-age adjustment is a guiding principle of the new pension reform. It must obviously also apply to the disabled, but ordinary old-age pensioners can compensate for this by standing longer in work. Obviously, they can't afford the disability of old-age pensioners. So when they are fully adjusted, they will lose an unreasonable amount. We have now given temporary protection in the reform and will see the two arrangements in a context later and find a fair and good model. Why do right-wing punishments require disability pensioners with full life expectancy adjustment from day one? Why can't the Right be involved in finding solutions that actually take account of the fact that there is a difference between work and work, by finding a sensible system that provides some protection, so that the disabled old-age pensioners achieve a decent pension?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2153	If it's punishing them, why can't the Workers' Party say that this should never change? Why will the Workers' Party then wait for an evaluation round to say whether this will be a permanent scheme or not? If this is to punish them, why didn't Jens Stoltenberg say from the first moment that what was now the change proposed by the government, that is, a partial protection for the disabled, was going to become government policy? It is very funny that the Workers' Party was unable to say it clearly and clearly. Rather on the contrary: As I at least heard the Prime Minister, it seemed that the Prime Minister shared very much of the reality description that Right now formulates in the notes page, namely that it is a challenge. We are involved in ensuring that the disabled get a good and decent pension. It's very important. At the same time, we have to remember that not everyone who's out of work before 67 years is able to work extra to compensate. Actually, that's not it. Many people are tired, even if they are not sick, and we're going to have an old-age pension system that's also reasonable to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2161	I have read the right comments very carefully, and it is very clear to me that the Right wants to ride two horses in this matter. They say they're a conciliator, but they disagree with important elements, for example. with regard to the monitoring of the standard of living and the child allowances for the very poorest families of children, and in the form of a note, they also say that they are disappointed that the entry conditions for the social security have not been tightened. And as if that wasn't enough, they want a full review of the entire scheme in 2018. All of this does show that the Right really wants a much tighter disability, i.e. a much stricter assessment of who will receive it, and lower benefits for the poorest families of children and for pensioners. When can we expect the Right to make these proposals in full transparency?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2168	At least I think that a good starting point in the policy is to assume that when you vote for something in the main hall, that's what you are for, and that's what the policy is. At least I have it as a starting point, as one of the Right Members who have agreed to settle with, among other things. Karin Andersen's party. The representative, Karin Andersen, can answer that question when she is going to have articles later. But we ask the government to come back with a question about the children's supplement. Can the representative Andersen, when she gets the floor afterwards, explain what is the difference between that and what the government itself has said? That's not right, the representative Andersen is trying to give the impression that the children's supplement as it is today is at peace. Rather, on the contrary, the government has, among other things, Geir Pollestad, the representative of the Center Party, stressed that you should come back to the children's supplement, and he has said that you see exactly the same challenges that the Right now points out in his remarks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2175	Just because the child supplements are an important matter, it is important to say what you think about them. I then register that Right wants the poorest families of children to be reduced. It's a political stance Right has, and it's SV disagreed with. Then I also register that the Right will not go into its own comments that are in the setting today, namely that they want ‘a real tightening of the requirements that are set to enter the scheme’, and that they will have a full review of the scheme in 2018. Does it not mean in plain text that anyone who depends on a safe disability because they are ill must fear that the Right should get his hands on the wheel?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2182	The answer to the last question is no, you don't have to fear that. But it's natural. It is not a secret that the Right believes that there are a lot of people — and that there is a problem that there are so many — who are being disabled in Norway. There is no problem that we are now in the process of creating a system that too many people will fall out better than today. We are now involved in creating a system that makes it more flexible to go between social security and work. We are involved in both a tax system and an increase in the scheme as well. At the same time, however, we need to ensure that the equipment is targeted at those who are too ill to work, and we will also look at the entry criteria for the equipment. Then I register that the Right and SV disagree with the children's supplement. That is probably quite correct, but then the representative Andersen must be aware that she also disagrees with the government partner of the Senterpartiet, and she also disagrees with the government partner of the Arbeiderpartiet. So it is possible that the representative will take a line on the next state council, Bjurstrom, in order to clarify what the government and the ministry really think about this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2189	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2192	The clarity of what the government thinks about these matters lies in the proposition. Anyone who wants and can work will be allowed to do so. When we're going to solve this, it's essentially going to be solved anywhere other than in the treatment of disability. It shall protect people who are too sick to work and shall provide a safe income from which to live over time. The fact that we have such arrangements prevents massive poverty among people who will not be included in working life. So I've said that disability is a hallmark of a society, and it shows the quality and human vision that underpins our welfare society. Disadvantage is unfortunately a class question. Therefore, SV has been fighting hard to ensure that the new disability suit is at least as good as before, and it has succeeded. Let's establish the facts first: no one can choose social security instead of work. Employment participation is higher in Norway than in other countries. Work is attractive and a very valued good. For most people falling out of work is a crushing defeat, with the accompanying loss of social status and money. Because it pays to work. Divorce strikes, it affects women more than men, it affects more people with shorter education than others, it affects people in physical professions tougher than others. It's Nav who admits disability, and they do that after many rounds of applications and medical reasons. It is also not true that the proportion of people who are ill-satisfied has increased a great deal. On the contrary, the proportion has actually fallen slightly, but it is important that those who want a job and can stand in the job are given the opportunity to do so. In Norway, there are more jobs than in almost all other countries, especially women. Therefore, they have acquired rights and rights to benefits if they have become ill. I'm glad and proud of that. It's like other places in the world that you have to be cared for by the family instead of getting social security if you can't work. There are very strong forces that have worked to tighten the performance. Yes, the NHO even organised an entire annual conference to contribute to the fear of spending and with demands for tightening. The problem is not disability, but that working life does not offer jobs to people with poor health and low skills. There are job vacancies, but there are no jobs that a worn-out assistant nurse or a very mentally ill youth will get. For SV, the most important thing has been to ensure decent social security for those who are unable to work, and it should not be a temporary benefit; it should be a permanent benefit, without all the uncertainty that a temporary benefit will provide. For SV, it has been absolutely essential that the performance of ‘young disabled’ is a safe option for anyone who needs it, even when you are under 40 years of age. For SV, it has also been absolutely essential that the tested child supplement to them be maintained with the worst of advice. Having poor advice for a short period of time has no harm, but if mother and father are too ill and cannot work, the disability will ensure that children in such families have a higher benefit, because this can last the entire childhood. People don't get healthy or get a job by having bad advice, it works the other way around. Bad advice, especially over a long period of time, means that forces that could have been used to get back on their feet — for it is absolutely happening, even with people who have been on disability relief — are used to make ends meet. So the dissatisfaction is neither the hen nor the egg in the debate that fewer should be on social security. For SV, it has been necessary to provide a screening of the old-age pension for those who have had disability. If a sick person is ill, he/she cannot use the scheme to work any longer to reduce or reduce the impact of the retirement adjustment. It has therefore been essential for the result that SV has been in government. Had the Right and Advance Party decided, we would see great tightening of the narrow loop to get the social security that we have today. Young people under 40 years of age could have seen far after a lasting, safe income if they were too sick to work. They would be stuck in a round dance in Nav that could have been between 20 and 40, with temporary benefits and trials. The poorest families of children would have lost $20,000 a year per child. Older pensioners would certainly have the full effect of life expectancy adjustment and many thousands of copies less to live on each year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2209	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2212	I record that SV thinks it makes sense to reduce the amount of free space from 1 G to 0.4 G. At the same time, when we know that many people with low incomes, for whom SV rhetorically are very busy, have a working reserve – have a working capacity – they could be taxed harder by setting the amount of the free money as low as we do, given that the average income for this group is 0.66 G in terms of residual working capacity. Why does SV think it makes sense that this group should be penalised the most by setting a low amount of free money? Would it not have been much better to have a higher amount of free time, so that the entire working capacity of that group could have been put into use in a much more efficient way?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2218	As I said in my post, the most important thing for SV when we have negotiated the disability benefit has been that the disability benefit for those who cannot work is good. It has been. It has in part become better than it is today. For SV, it has been essential that we have managed to maintain the need-tested child supplement, that we have received partial protection of the disability pension, that we have retained the good scheme for the young disabled, and not, as the Progress Party wants them to be on a temporary benefit, which the Progress Party has also not proposed in this setting, until they are 40 years old. These have been the most important points. When the Indemnification Committee submitted its recommendation, the amount of free money was considerably lower than that presented by this government. In addition, during the course of the Stortingen treatment, we have negotiated a solution that has also improved the amount of free money for some groups. So all in all, SV is satisfied with this package and believes that it has got a good device.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2225	On page 57 of the Brochmann Committee’s report, there is an overview of the children’s supplement. It shows, as I also referred to in my post, that up to a salary of NOK 350,000 in employment, i.e. a normal salary in Norway, is that if you are a single-parent with one child, you are paid more by not being in the labour market than by being in the labour market. Now Karin Andersen says that the government has decided to keep the baby supplement. That's not what the government writes. The government writes that the treatment of the children’s supplement has been postponed, and you will come back to it in connection with the Brochmann Committee’s report. So I wonder if I've misunderstood what's in the proposition, or if Andersen's representative has other information, which the rest of the Stortinget don't know about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2232	I expect that the representative, Røe Isaksen, sees that no changes are being made to the child supplement in this proposition, and that the child supplement is as it has been before – that is, a need-tested child supplement for the families who have the worst advice. When it comes to the reasoning for the Red Isaac, otherwise, it is based on a misunderstanding, namely that people can choose – that they can choose disability rather than job. You compare two situations where one is a job, while the other is a disability. It's not like that. You can't choose disability in this country. I have the good thing to meet a person who would choose such a situation, rather than having health, be able to stand in work, with all the freedom and opportunities it gives, rather than being sick and being in social security. I believe it is right that we should protect the families with children who have the worst social security, even if they can get a benefit that is a little above the thought of income they should have. That is a good policy of poverty.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2241	First, I must use the opportunity to thank the representative Karin Andersen for a good cooperation on the new reform and also congratulate him with many good main features in it. I suppose I must also be so bold and say that there is much thanks to the work of the Christian People's Party on the outside of these years that the reform has been made. But at one point I am particularly disappointed with the government parties. It is the point of rated performance or the ability to enter the defrosting system with a lower graduation, from 50 pst. to 40 pst. if one comes from work clearance. Today, if you have a public service pension, you can reach a much lower graduation, while you can't actually go beyond 60 pst. And all the time be 40 pst. out, in the event that a person may come back or be able to enter the disability. Why is it that the government is so concerned that this grading should be so high, instead of perhaps being able to determine a more correct grading?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2248	I think I would like to underline first that as the legislation becomes now, those who come from redundancy payments will have an input condition of 40 pst. After the last numbers I've seen, it's going to apply to about 80 pst. by those who enter the disability Invalidity. Otherwise, I think I have to repeat what I said in my answer to the Advancement Party: The most important thing for SV when we have worked on this, has been to ensure that the disability for those who cannot work is good, and it has been the child supplement, the protection of the old age pension and also the maintenance of a good and safe system for young people under 40 years of age. This is a theme of what grades you're going to have. You have the opportunity to look at it in the future. Those with occupational pensions, just as the representative Robstad says, have more flexible arrangements. I can say that I think there is little to suggest that they are being abused.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2255	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2258	New disability benefit is a big and important matter. Disadvantage is a central part of our safety net, and no one knows who will need this system in the future. It is very gratifying that the scheme of the new disability benefit has been supported so widely in Stortinget. I will also give praise to the Right and Christian People's Party, and to the Left, for good cooperation along the way. It is important that our main welfare systems have broad support in the Storting. I just stood behind here and looked out on the lion's tray. So we are dealing with a great welfare reform – there was a Christmas tree there, there were no demonstrations. Certainly there have been seminars and conferences with great commitment around the matter, but that this has happened in calm forms is partly because we do not need to do the cuts that many other countries need, but it is also because, I think, we have had a broad political majority behind the changes that have been made. Because it's a case full of difficult balances. We want good arrangements with a high degree of compensation for those inside. But we're also going to make sure it pays to work. We want to have a good child supplement, because we want to fight child poverty. But it's also going to pay off working. We want to have a high amount of free money. But we also want to use graduated performances. With regard to the amount of the allowance, I am pleased that we made changes to what the Indemnity Pensions Committee presented. But if you're going to have a competition to find the most sin on people, my sympathy lies with those who are unable to have an income alongside the social security. I am pleased that we in the Committee have been able to follow up the proposals made during the hearing and have got a better system than the government originally put forward. As far as disability benefits are concerned, I feel that there is a problem that is difficult to discuss. If, for example: says that there are too many untrained people in Norway, a few clumsy embraces from the NHO and the right-hand think tank Civita, one can get the left-hand think tank Manifesto on the neck, who is interested in showing that no, there are not many undressed people in Norway, one can feel to drag some undressed people on the toes, even if it was never intended. The central party has the approximation that we should stay away from these theoretical exercises without content. Regardless of the number of disabled people, it's our job to work for it to get fewer. We do not believe that people choose disability, but it is at the same time that the attractiveness of the scheme, or the financial framework of the scheme, will have meaning. That is precisely why it is worth working, because as much as possible it is necessary to use the working capacity that they have. So it's important to be clear that a lot of what's in this isn't about mathematics, for example. the proposal for entry conditions of 20 pst. It's easy to agree with. I believe that in real life it will be difficult to practice, because deterioration as a result of old age is not something to claim disability benefits. In this context, one must remember that the role of doctors and Nav in particular is largely based on judgement. Now we're going to have another building block in a major transformation of our welfare system. We have the pension reform, of which this is part, we have the redundancy money, we have the Nav reform, where there are still unresolved tasks – we are working on this. What I want to regret from the debate that has taken place is that the debate has helped to create uncertainty for those who are in the system today. I don't think we've been good enough to communicate that this applies primarily to new cases. If I'm going to venture to get some winners in this case, there's a group that the Center Party has been very concerned about, namely women who, because of large care tasks, come into the workplace late. Due to new generation rules, they will be significantly better off with the new scheme than with the old one.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2284	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2287	I noticed that the representative Pollestad said in his post that the centre party was for grading. Then I wonder why in the world the Center Party has gone in to keep the graduation of 50 pst. and, at the same time, the entry conditions of 40 pst. for those who come from redundancy payments. Had it not then been much more reasonable to have a better grading, down to 20 pst. ? The second question I have in Pollestad is about young people. Pollestad clearly believed in the exchange of lines with the undersigned that our proposal was alarming, and that there could be too high a cost associated with it. Does the real representative Pollestad think that an income for young people of DKK 210 000, as proposed by the government of Pollestad, is sufficient to form a family and live in owner-occupied housing?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2294	As far as grading is concerned, I was also interested in my post that, for example. what goes on in old age and the consequences of it can make it difficult to have too low a degree of disability. On the question of youth disability: No, it is not that we believe that it is particularly attractive not to go on disability or on ‘young disabled’. But we have also, we who are behind disability, have had to make priorities within what we have thought is a sound financial framework, both in the light of this and in relation to the pension reform. Then we've looked at what kind of room of action we have. My point in relation to the Progress Party is that they say yes to so many things that the sum of the bill is different from that with which the government parties and the settlement partners operate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2301	In the replies after previous posts, we have heard representatives of the government parties yawning at those who want to remove disability benefits for them for less than 40 years. The representative Pollestad and the Central Party have been an ardent instigator to make it a reality. I quote from the country's opinion to the Center Party: ‘Permanent dissatisfaction with people under 40 years of age should only be granted when it is obvious that the person is unable to enter work.’ I can agree with the representative Pollestad that it is worrying that many young people are somehow forgotten by the public that they are standing uncontacted. We know that changing health makes it possible for them to come back again later, and if the follow-up is close, it would at least be easier to get them back into working life. That is why the Christian People's Party has a good proposal, which the Central Party is voting on today. Why does the Central Party vote down that proposal, and what other measures does one have for those who have already been dissatisfied, but who may be able to come back to work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2312	I notice that one does not thank the Centre for the good cooperation – I think one should have done that. With regard to our national meeting decisions, it is quite right that the word ‘clear’ has been used. It is also under the current system, so that there is to be a condition to be granted a disability that one cannot enter into work. We had our primary position. The important thing now is that one increases efforts to get more young people into the labour market. The centre party has also worked to increase the use of wage subsidies. We believe that this is an important tool that we should continue to work with. The employment strategy is an important act, for which we have been drivers. So we look forward to further good cooperation with the Christian People's Party to get more young people into work. It's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2319	I would like to thank the representative Pollestad and his many products for a good cooperation, so I hope he can also convey his greeting to them! One of the challenges when we now create a new scheme and increase gross payments is that, for example: the housing allowance, which is based on what you have in gross income, is arranged in such a way that a part that gets dissatisfaction after the new system may not now qualify for housing support and thus lose some income. How will the Center Party recommend the government to solve that problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2326	The housing aid scheme is a very important scheme, which has also had some challenges. One of the challenges has been under-use of the scheme and perhaps that the information out has not been good enough. Now I think the housing support system has to treat it in a non-discriminatory manner, regardless of where the income comes from. But it would be natural for further work on the housing support scheme to take this into account, because the main thing is that the scheme is designed in a way that makes those who need it the most, and those who are entitled to the scheme, aware of this and use it, whether they are in work or in social security.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2331	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2334	Today, Stortinget adopts a very important reform. It has been created after many years of work and cooperation with the «pension comrades». The disability benefit is the safety net that takes care of those who are unable to work on their own. It shall be sustainable, with a decent performance for those who are disabled now, but adjusted in such a way that the security of income is present also for the future. The Christian People's Party is pleased that there is an almost cohesive mass behind the main elements of the reform. This means that the scheme will stand still, despite the changing political majority, and will follow up the pension reform in a good way. It provides predictability and security for those affected. The Christian People's Party believes that the new disservice has many good elements in it. I will raise some of the points the Christian People's Party has been particularly concerned about. Those who get disability benefit have been through a long process to be clarified. They have lost their ability to work, come into a permanent system and are to be compensated for this. The level of security of income is then important. Christian People's Party believes that 66 pst. past revenue is a proper and good level. The basis of calculation is also important. For us, it was important that not the starting point for the disability benefit was the earnings only the year before, but that you ensure that not everyone works all the time – someone takes education, chooses care for family or similar. Then it is important that the best three of the last five years' income is the basis for calculation. The Christian People's Party also has a special commitment to the children. That is why we take note of it as one says that the child supplement will be continued in the new disability benefit. Children of the disabled can have a more difficult starting point in life and often grow up in families with poor advice. They also have a greater chance of being disabled themselves. In the further consideration of this matter, it is important that the children are properly cared for. In the context of the new disability, the Christian People's Party is also concerned that everyone should use the ability to work that they may have. That's why it's important that we focus on giving up the percentage they're actually illiterate, and that they can work for the rest. When we add up to greater use of classified benefits, it is also important that we ensure that they actually get the opportunity to use their residual working capacity. It demands the labour market, and it demands us as politicians. This must be followed closely when the new reform is introduced. This issue is also linked to the possibility of work for those who have been granted 100 pst. disability. For most people, work is unimaginable, but we know that for some people the form will vary, and for some periods they will have the opportunity to work. The Christian People's Party believes that the new model of combining social security and work is good. Release of the ‘rest year’, no automatic reassessment and no 100 pst. curtailment of revenue over the amount of free money is good. There is also a logic in the new system that revenue over the amount of the free will be curtailed by the degree of compensation. If you went down a lot when you were unemployed, it is also natural that you are left with more if you can work alongside the social security. But the government's proposal also had a backside. Those with low wages would experience a shortening of 82.7 pst. That would result in one only set with 11 kroner for every hundred bills a servant, after tax. It would be unreasonable and not stimulate the inability to try to get back into work. Therefore, the Christian People's Party had a demand that we set a maximum limit on the curtailment. The government parties and the case rapporteur are to be commended for their goodwill and cooperation around this point, and I am pleased that we were able to end up with a solution that corresponds to the fact that the abbreviation should not be higher than 70 pst. This is an example for follow-up. Good recordings from hearings and from the opposition should have an impact on the decisions taken by the Stortinget. Another important point I'm glad that we've reached an agreement around, and got a majority comment on, is how the disability pension is to be shielded from lifestyle adjustment. Lifetime adjustment is an important part of the pension reform and therefore much of the background to the issue we have here today. The Christian People's Party has been excited about how the government would solve this. It was not a good solution when we discussed the matter of the temporary arrangement last year, in Prop. 82 L for 2009-2010, but the solution in this setting is significantly better. Lifetime adjustment is about living longer and therefore can also work longer. The worker may compensate for the living adjustment by standing longer in work. Those who are illiterate can't do that. That they were not to be shielded for any of the living adjustments would be unacceptable. The point must be that they have the same transition as the workers, neither better nor worse. Therefore, the comments of the majority of the Committee are so important: «The objective must be to make the old-age pension payable proportionate to the average of the old-age pension paid by the worker.» We do not know that before the evaluation in 2018. When we know more about how to adapt to the new flexible retirement pension, and more about when they take out an old age pension, it will also be easier to find protective rules for the disabled, so that the disabled come out on the same line of work. The Christian People's Party therefore expects the intention of the majority in the Storting to be reflected in the assessments ahead. It is the sustainability of the reform depending on it. The Christian People's Party has also been concerned that we are able to achieve as much as possible the right degree of inadequacy of those who become illiterate. That's why we've supported the goal of getting fewer than 100 pst. non-performing and multiple rated benefits. That is why we have also called for a greater incentive for people who have fallen ill to use more of their working capacity than 40-50 pst, because there is a weakness and lack of flexibility in today's system that the Storting should have corrected in the new reform. Indeed, the proposal implies a continuation of current legislation, which, for the vast majority of people, means that one must be at least 50 pst. are unfit to enter other schemes when sickness benefit ceases to exist. This gives little incentive to people in the sickness benefit scheme to get more than 50 pst. This is contrary to our objective that the sick person should return to the same size as possible according to his or her own health. This should be facilitated by the employer, but it is also important that social security systems stimulate it. A grade less than 50 pst. as an entry ticket will contribute to the full use of the working capacity of more than one user. Although such a scheme may result in more people entering the disability scheme, more people may at the same time have a lower disability rate than they would otherwise have. We think this would be a better and fairer model than what is adopted today. That is why the Christian People's Party has an alternative wording to § 12-7 and § 12-10. Finally, I would like to come to a final, but very important point, namely how we can take care of the younger ones and ensure that as much as possible is able to work and not get into social security. Unfortunately, we know that progress has gone in the wrong direction. A alarmingly high number of young people are losing their lives. The Christian People's Party wants the youngest to be followed up closer than it is today. Our main focus in this room has repeatedly been early efforts and close follow-up. We want closer follow-up of the sick. We think it is worrying that it is such a long wait before people with disabilities are taken on board. And we believe that the warnings from Nav must be listened to. Those who have fallen out of work must be followed up earlier and closer, for the most important work is done long before the disability benefit is granted. We have also proposed a better follow-up of young people through, for example: an annual meeting between Nav and the disabled person. We think it's important that the disability is not forgotten, precisely because some can actually come back to work in a later period. Finally, I would like to thank the Committee for a good work – and also the Centre Party. I address the proposals that the Christian People's Party has promoted in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2379	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2384	In the comments on the setting there is a distinction between the Advancement Party and the Right on the one hand, I think, and the Christian People's Party on the other, and I think that's good. I feel that the Workers' Party and the Christian People's Party have the same attitude towards those who receive disability benefit, and towards the goal of income protection. I am very happy that we finally got a solution together with the Christian People's Party. In the vote, Right parties and organisations – but none by name – are accusing them of ‘explaining the increase in proportion rather than addressing the challenges’. Nevertheless, they have few other proposals for decisions. However, the Right wants a full review of all aspects of the disaster reform in 2018. The cards are then to be shared again, and I expect that the goal is to address the challenges that the Right sees – i.e. more limitations. My question to the representative Ropstad is: Will the Christian People's Party be satisfied with this agreement even after 2018? How does the Christian People's Party stand for a full review of the entire miscarriage reform in 2018, as the Right says?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2393	I would like to thank Mr Henriksen for an important and good question. First of all, it gives me an opportunity to reaffirm that for the Christian People's Party, the broad consensus of the Storting is important, because it gives predictability of the arrangement and security for those who do not. Secondly, I can also talk about the evaluation, because I think the evaluation is important just to see how some of the elements turn out. A full review I will not look at as necessary. But I think you need to follow the reform and see how it turns out, especially with regard to the adaptation to life expectancy adjustment, the functioning of labour incentives – if one has to do more, in view of the labour market – and how they are able to exploit their residual working capacity. If they are not allowed to participate in their 20-30 pst, which they have been defined as a worker, then it is a challenge for the whole scheme. So I don't believe at this point in time I would say that one must have a full review. But following the reform carefully and evaluating it well is the Christian People's Party concerned.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2402	I would like to make a proposal by the Christian People's Party, which is a sympathetic proposal, namely that domestic spouses should be able to have a disability if their working capacity is reduced by at least 20 pst. My objection to this does not concern the good idea behind the proposal. My objection concerns how this is thought to be practiced. Here, there are very small differences between the normal and the 20 pst. reduced working capacity. Does the Christian People's Party have any figures on how many of the country's domestic spouses are in this situation, and this is the case?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2409	No, I don't have any figures on the proportion of people living at home that this could possibly account for. However, § 12-10 is a consequence of § 12-7, and therefore there is an opportunity to get disability benefit when the working capacity is reduced by 20 pst., also for the home. What's important for the Christian People's Party, and I'm disappointed that the Center Party is not more concerned about, is that this actually applies to the degree you're unfinished. If you today are 30 pst. not done, says the Central Party and the government parties: yes, then you get to be 30 pst. disabled, but could only work 70 pst. There is a weakness in the reform. As I was in my post, I think it contributes to many – instead of trying to use the working capacity they have – choosing to be at least 40 pst. out of work, in such a way as to ensure disability. I think that through the model that the Christian People's Party has proposed, one might first of all have stimulated the use of residual working capacity, and, secondly, have got a fairer order, so that those who are actually unemployed get their share.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2416	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Christian People's Party for its good cooperation in this matter. But I also want to remind you that the scheme is such today that you can have restful disability benefits, first for five years and then for five more years. So the concern that Ropstad had in his last exchange of lines here, is probably, in my view, quite exaggerated. I want to ask questions about something else, namely this review that the Christian People's Party also says they want to join. It makes me a little worried when it's the disability you're going to have a review of, because I've come to the conclusion that the Christian People's Party has agreed that it's not the disability that's the problem – that's for example. lack of health follow-up, lack of competence or working life that is not willing to accept people who have holes in the CV and who may have had health problems. So I want to challenge the representative Rupstad a little bit about it: can he elaborate a little what it is he thinks this review should go into, and whether there might not be any other areas it is more important to light up if you're going to make sure that more people who want it can be at work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2426	Thanks for both good cooperation and good questions. I would like to make it clear once again that the background for me to think it is important to follow the reform closely – and possibly to review several elements – is that I am uncertain about how some of the elements can turn out, in the positive sense that we have a goal that more people should exploit their residual working capacity. If they fail, they will suffer in a worse situation than that which has been Andersen's representative, and also Christian People's Party's, intention. That is why I believe that it will not be the major elements, but that, for example, it will be. The imbalance – the fact that more people get a graduated benefit, which I was in the process of doing – and the lifestyle adjustment will be a few of the elements that it is very important to follow, because if it turns out that the scheme is not as flexible and favourable, and the combination of work and social security is not as good as we believe in this room, then I think it is right that the Storting should eventually go through it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2433	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2436	The left is not represented in the committee, and then the debate sometimes becomes slightly different from what you thought it would be. I had intended to start with a lot of boasting by the government in this matter. I think we have been included a lot – so much that a two-man group almost seems to have had a little bit about the inclusion. As I read the setting, there is quite a broad consensus on all the big and important things. I thought as if the Christmas spirit were going to subside in this matter – except for someone who needs to stand in the door and stamp and tell Santa Claus that some boys have been too bad to get gifts, I perceive that we are really taking some big, common grip together – grip that we should be proud of, and that there is a great deal of agreement about. I have been assigned 5 minutes, and I have five points, because we have not been given any comments. We in the Left also believe that equal treatment should be given to children’s supplements, for example. the redundancy allowance and disability benefit, because the tipping point that has been discussed here in the past is somewhat too high. It is not to attack families of children, but to make this as equal as possible. Secondly, the Left does not want to distinguish between unmarried, cohabiting, married – what civil status you have – and does not want to support it either. We are also concerned that people with high incomes can get very badly out of what we now agree on. That is why we want it to be seen in the future. So let's just lower the probability of a lower disability. After all, it is possible, on application, to have a lower disability rate — down to 20 pst. The reason why we're a little bit concerned about that being possible is because we think it can keep people working longer. For example, for some people who get creepy diseases, being able to have time to get back in, being able to have time to practice, having time to take care of their disease in a proper way, and being able to do it gradually, can lead to them being much longer at work. I've talked to a lot of people like this. suffers from MS, where it turns out that being able to take care of their body, being able to have time to do it next to the job, allows them to stand much, much longer in work. To have a degree of inability to go all the way down to 20 pst. I think I had given a much greater opportunity to be able to work longer and practice their profession properly. We have put forward a proposal in the Chamber that we ask people to consider. We have today a society that is divided between those that are outside, and those that are inside. What we're talking about today is the rights of those who are outside. What the left had wanted was that we had looked at solidarity to give opportunities, space for action and economic space to those who are going all the way outside, that is, those who are going to be 100 pst. sufferers, are given the opportunity to increase their income against the fact that we who are inside, take and give something, i.e. look at a shift, look at the rights of sick pay – the rights of those who are outside. It would have been an act of solidarity that we could have stood for, and where we could have shown that fighting exclusion in Norwegian society is important. We have today been very good at tying up over and over again strengthening the rights of those who are in the labour market, of those who are in all the rights systems, while we see that we are making it harder for them outside. So with that I'm going to sum up the Left's vote today. We are going to vote in favour of the proposal No. 1, 2, 12, 13, 14, 17, 19 -- and, of course, our own, which I bring up with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2457	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, then addressed the proposal to which she referred, which has been distributed in the seats of the representatives. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2462	We heard that the representative Skei Grande took up the proposal that was distributed on our tables, and in itself explained it well enough. But it's an element of this proposal that I've pushed a little over. It is the reference to ‘short-term sick leave benefits’. Unless the Left has a different definition of ‘short-term sick leave’ than the rest of us, this means that sick leave and benefits fall within what we call the employer’s term today — up to 16 days — and become no savings in the state budget at all. So my question is: is this an incuracy, or is there another meaning in this proposal when you refer to short-term sick leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2469	We're probably talking about sickness, where you come back to work after a relatively short period of time. Then I don't necessarily mean one or two days, but to be able to look at our entire sickness pay scheme, which is for those who are ill for short periods, up to the disability problem that is about those who are sick and permanent outside the labour market. For us, it's important to see if we could have helped to improve the conditions of those who are always pushed off the labour market, i.e. those that are 100 pst. unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2474	This means, then, that the wording of the proposal itself is an incursion and could be more precise, because it is the sick leave system you really want to attack. That's interesting in itself, because then we almost have to ask ourselves an explanation of what it is in the sick leave scheme left wants to get started. Is it the qualifying days, is it the measurement itself, or what else is it that you want to attack in the scheme that is one of the most important agreements we have in Norwegian working life?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2479	I notice that the Workers' Party is very busy fighting for the rights of those inside. For the Left, it's important to fight for those who are outside. For us, it is important to see that solidarity is about us who are within – we who have all the rights, we who have our wages every day when we go to work, we who have the security it actually gives – can give something to those who are outside. That's why it's been important for the Left in the budgets to show that we're increasing social assistance, we're increasing the opportunities for all those who are outside, outside, and then the Workers' Party has to choose those who fight for those who are inside and have their full rights when they go to work, every single day.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2484	I would really like you to stop talking about people like that. are on disability insurance, as being outside. I thought that both the representative Skei Grande and I agreed that we were equivalent, just as much worth, in a society, and should not be mentioned that way if we've been so unhappy that we've had bad health and need disability. So I want to ask the representative to find another way to talk about this. What I really took the floor was the representative's contribution when it came to the child supplement, because she argued that it must be equal to the redundancy allowance. Then I would like to ask whether the representative of the Left agrees with SV that there is a great difference between being on redundancy payments, for example. half a year, a few months, maybe a year or two, and being on disability in maybe the whole childhood of a child. Does that not mean that you need to be more concerned with the income of that family in that situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2491	First to the outside cabinet. No, you can find some other, better words that suit the SV representative better, but it's about being out of work – at good and at bad. It's about you not having all the rights that a worker has. It's about you not having all of the rights that we can actually cash in every single day at work. That's why I'm busy fighting for those who don't have those rights, while someone here in the hall is most concerned about holding on to the rights of those who have all the opportunities every day. The left is still going to be busy fighting for those who don't have those opportunities. Then it's clear that there's a difference between being on redundancy pay and being on disability pay. But sometimes we make some good systems, and then we'll see if the good systems can also be used elsewhere. We in the left see that this gets a rash that wasn't intentional, like the system works today. So we say the same thing as the government says, "You should figure this out and look at it."
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2498	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2502	Today, the Storting deals with legislative proposals on new disability benefits and old-age pensions for disabled people. The proposal is a result of a long process that started with the government’s Bondevik II reduction in the UFY in 2005. The committee presented its position in 2007. The proposals have been on a wide-ranging consultation round and the main steps of the reform have been widely welcomed. On the one hand, the background to the proposals is the need to adapt the benefits of the population to the needs of the pension reform. However, the impoverishment reform is also part of the renewal of the social welfare systems of people with health problems. The government is concerned with the evolution of the number of miscarriages. Since the 1970s, there have been many more failures. Measured as a proportion of the population, the proportion of problem drug use has increased from about 6 pst. For approx. 10 pst. The increase is due, inter alia, to: that far more women have come to work. Early in the 1970s, only half of women aged 25–54 were employed. Now the share is 85 pst. In recent years, the proportion of young people has been relatively stable, and in older age groups the proportion of young people has actually fallen. It's positive. However, the government believes that there are too many shortcomings – or that there should be fewer ones, as the representative of the Central Party said, which is a more correct wording – and that we should facilitate the widest possible participation in the world of work. The government is proposing a better default than today's. We believe society should take care of those who cannot participate in the labour market. The government will therefore focus on a better follow-up of the individual and propose a simpler and more flexible disability benefit. The default benefit shall continue to provide a permanent hedge of income. It gives each individual dignity and economic security. The government's proposal provides a good guarantee of income for those who are unable to work, but at the same time motivate those who have the opportunity to try to work or to increase their share of employment. The new legislation will also build upon the government's desire to increase the use of classified disability benefits. The disability benefit shall be calculated in a new way and more closely reflect the income it had before being disabled. At the same time, the new disability benefit shall be taxed as remuneration. Together, this helps to give us a consistent and more equal system of income protection for everyone of working age. The combination of social security and work shall be facilitated. A new, flexible and seamless system is introduced to combine disability and work. There shall no longer be a one-year waiting period until you can have labour income alongside the disability benefit. The rate of unemployment shall no longer be re-evaluated if labour income becomes too high. It will be a great advantage – especially for people with highly varying working skills – to know that they can work and at the same time be sure that they can fall back on the disability if they do not have the power to continue working. It'll be safer to try out at work. The new rules also ensure that working will always pay off if you have a chance to do so. The rules also provide a fairer treatment of total and partial disability. In the new scheme, you can earn up to 0.4 G, which is now approximately NOK 31 700, without reducing your disability. If labour income is higher than this, the disability benefit is reduced proportionately. I am pleased that we have agreed with the Christian People's Party and the Right on the details of the curtailment rules, so that the maximum curtailment for those who have the minimum performance is reduced. The agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Right makes it a broad uprising about a good solution to this point. Today's disability pensioners shall retain what they receive today. They will be subject to new tax rules, but will be increased in such a way that they will receive the same income after tax as they do today. Today’s disability pensioners will therefore be less affected by the reform than by a simpler and better system to try their way into work. The government wants the disabled to continue to receive a good old-age pension. The unemployed are still going to retire at the age of 67 and receive an annual retirement pension, as if they were still at work. We also propose a temporary arrangement that will cover the first few years of the year for about half of the effects of the lifestyle adjustment. The proposals ensure that an old-age pension which is proportionate to the old-age pension of the worker is paid. However, the ratio of the unemployed to the old-age pension of the worker could be influenced by how they adapt to the changes in working life. The government therefore believes that in 2018, it is necessary to assess whether — and, if appropriate, to what extent — an old-age pension should be shielded from the effects of the adjustment of life expectancy. An overall committee stresses the importance of setting aside an old-age pension in a reasonable relation to the average old-age pension paid to the worker. However, the right-hand side will not result in partial shielding from the effect of the lifestyle adjustment. They indicate that the disabled can receive a higher age pension than those taking out early retirement. However, the right supports the government’s proposal to receive a disability pension up to 67 years of age, which is the main reason why in some cases disability can receive a higher age pension than those taking out early retirement. In addition to the concrete proposals contained in the improvisation, a broader review of the use of the instrument is needed – according to the government’s assessment – to support the line of work. The Government aims to return to Stortinget with an assessment of this, with a view to allowing any changes to take effect at the same time as new disability benefits. The government will also step up efforts to offer young people under 30 years of age to get to work. The job strategy for people with disabilities that we presented together with the 2012 budget is an important part of this. On many points the Progress Party has chosen to make its own proposals. However, I find it difficult to find a clear line in the proposals. The Progress Party is concerned about the growth in the number of beneficiaries and fears that the state financial challenges may arise. At the same time, the Progress Party has proposals that will increase both the number of people on disability benefits and government expenditure by several billion dollars a year. I am pleased that a broad majority in the Grand Duchy does not follow the Progress Party, but instead is behind the main features of the proposal for a new disability benefit. The pension agreements in 2005 and 2007 provided a broad picture of the main lines of a new age pension in the social security system. The consensus now reached on the new disability benefit means predictability for those who are disabled, and thus the security of future benefits in this area as well. I will end by expressing my gratitude for the cooperation within the Committee, which has also resulted in good support for the government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2538	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2541	If that's possible, I'll draw myself two lines. But let me first take the first line. In the setting, the government parties are clear, and it is also stated in the proposition that those who have been granted disability benefits today are to be converted into a new scheme in 2015. They will receive increased taxes, but it will have to be compensated for by increased gross performance, so that they retain almost the same net performance. Later in the vote, the majority of the committee pointed out exactly the same thing. Is it that one should have approximated the same performance a recognition that there will be some groups here that will have a lower net performance than is the case today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2553	First of all, the proposal that has been put forward and which is being discussed today will essentially provide a slightly higher disability pension for the vast majority of people. When you look at the tax credit of this, you've said that you're going to get roughly equal payments. This means that in most cases you will get the equivalent of what you have today, but it's in that wording that also takes into account, if people have income on the side, curtailment rules, etc., that this might look something different. But in most cases, the individual will get more or less the same thing as you have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2558	The representative, Eriksson, will have the floor for a reply. two, but since the president had announced the next replicator, it will be later in the line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2561	Thanks for the service from the department – it has been very good. There are two issues that are being addressed – what to say – a little in the same way in this message. One is that you have a temporary shielding for lifestyle adjustment now, but you have to come back to an assessment. I just want to point out that it is a little strange that – if this is as bad as a representative from the Workers' Party in the past thought – you cannot say clearly and clearly now that this should be a permanent arrangement. That's what they say. The second is that the government says you should come back to the children's supplement. There has been a little bit of confusion and a little bit of different signals from the different government parties around what that means. I was wondering if the Council of State might clarify what it means for the government to come back to the facility on the children's supplement in connection with the follow-up to the Brochmann Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2575	I did not realize that the representative from the Workers' Party was talking about this being so bad. I felt that the representative from the Workers' Party was concerned that an almost equal age pension should be provided for the unemployed. This is why it is important to see how they actually adapt to work – it gives us these years to look at this. So I don't feel that there was any contradiction between what's written here and what was said by the representative. As far as the children's supplement is concerned, we are clear that we are continuing the children's supplement, but also refer to the evaluation we are going to make of the Brochmann Committee's setting. The Brochmann committee is very clear that cash benefits can have effects that the Røe Isaac is fully aware of, and this means that we are now going to look at whether you should have other benefits, for example. linked to the poorest children. But what is absolutely crucial for this government is that the children we're talking about here are the children who need well-being. The question is only what form, if any, the welfare goods should take. But we're going to come back to this when we evaluate the position of the Brochmann Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2582	First, I just want to commend the Council of State for choosing to go for the solution she has made to the lifestyle adjustment, because I see that as one of the important steps, that you actually want it to be on the same line as for the rest of the workers, so that at an evaluation in 2018 it is based on a principle. It's important. Then I want to go back to what the representative Eriksson really provided a basis for. What is challenging about new disability benefits, which are higher, is that for other benefits based on low pay, there has to be a change in the level of benefit coverage or, as the Council of State indicated, a return to treatment. Would it mean that the government is concerned that, as at present, the benefits received in addition will also receive a similar compensation in the future, if one has to reconsider these types of benefits that the Council of State has been experiencing?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2589	This was a problem we raised as early as the day we submitted the message. When you have some benefits in society that are tested for needs, they are linked to an amount. If that amount changes due to – in this case – a more technical compensation, it is natural to look at how to adjust it so that it does not have any consequences other than what you wanted. So we've always been clear about that, for example. on the problem of housing aid, we will come back to that. We have time until the impact date from 2015 and will come back to it. The idea here is not to change all of these rules. But there might be some operations that don't necessarily give them the results anyway, so we have to do a proper job here. I think we fully agree on where we are going to end, and that this is not a reform that is going to change the content of the services that are tested today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2594	I want to record the thread from the representative, Røe Isaksen, in relation to the children's supplement. In the position of the Brochmann Committee, to which the Council itself pointed, the problem has been addressed. It is also mentioned in the Distinguished Pensions Committee, where there were three different solutions, two different minorities and a majority. And then I also see in the proposition that the department is a little bit problematic about it. As I see it, you say that it makes sense to have a ceiling on benefits such as child supplements and disability benefits, and it shows that a ceiling of about 90 pst. might be something you can come back to and watch. Based on the debate that has been going on here today, and when I hear the representative Karin Andersen, is it so to understand that setting a ceiling in relation to total benefits and child allowances is not relevant to the government, or is there something you want to see when you come back with the matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2602	First of all, I want to say that I'm recording that the roof that the Progress Party adds up to here is a very brutal thank you, which will actually hit poor families and poor children very hard, and which will also make you get very few work incentives. That's it. With regard to what the government has said, we have discussed different aspects of the proposition. We have concluded that we will now see this in full after evaluating the settings of the Brochmann Committee. I think that's a very wise decision, because these are not very simple questions. This is about people who are dependent on a performance, and who are not of the richest in this society, to say it very mildly. Then the question is, how do we make a benefit that makes these children get the best possible everyday life, and that stimulates their parents to get into work? That's what will definitely give these children the best possible everyday life in the long term, and that's what we have to assess. We have clearly said that we will come back to this in connection with the fact that we are going to assess the position of the Brochmann Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2611	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2614	Today, we are adopting a new and improved system for the future. The reform is fully in line with the overall political objectives and projects of the Workers' Party. We want to give more opportunities to people in the workplace, give more opportunities to work, and by supporting and providing targeted measures to prevent people from falling out of the labour market. This is precisely what this reform is all about – giving more people better opportunities to work. It pays to work. It pays off for the individual, and it pays off for the community financially, but it has a greater value than only the economic one. The labour force is our most important resource. It's the one that built, and it's the one that's going to build, our welfare in the future. That is why we want more people in the labour market. And that's exactly why our work line has two tracks: it pays to work, but you're also going to get help to get out of work if you need that help, and you're going to get support to stay there. It's an inclusive workline that takes into account that people are different, but that everyone can contribute their own, and that it's equally valuable. The origin of the discussion here today needs to be established. From time to time, it appears that the majority in Norway are going to social security, choose social security or would have preferred to be in social security. That's wrong. More people go to work in Norway than in any other country. We have record high employment, higher than most other countries. Most people in Norway go to work, and those who cannot work here in the country, either temporarily or permanently, do not get involved in poverty statistics. It is here in Norway by the lowest in Europe. It's because we've arranged for us, the inhabitants of Norway, to participate in a solid fissure team that gives us well-being from cradle to grave, and that ensures those who can't support themselves, temporarily or permanently. Our social security systems are the best characteristic of the welfare state. There is something we should be proud of, something that most other countries envy us, and no one should be ashamed of going to social security. It will ensure that those who cannot work have something decent to live with, and it will ensure the new reform – a decent social security. It's crucial. For most who are illiterate, and most who are going to be illiterate, can not work alongside the social security. Then we have another group, which so far has not been treated well enough by the system, or which has not been caught well enough by the system. It's those who are between those who participate fully in the world of work and those who are 100 pst. they are partially disabled, but have a health condition that allows them to work for periods of time. We are improving that group today when we adopt this reform – a whole new system. It is, as the Progress Party did earlier today, completely meaningless to compare old thresholds and old computations with the new system. It's like comparing apples and pears. It doesn't make sense, it's completely different systems. The new system adds that working will always pay off. It didn't do the old stuff. You can actually work as much as you want, and earn more, without any limit. For every penny you make, you'll always be left with more money. And it'll be easier to slide in and out of the system -- less bureaucratic. It should be easy to contribute to the labour market, and that is what we are doing today with the new reform. We are adopting a new system today. We don't decide a new reality – it would have been so simple! We, the majority of the committee – all except the Progress Party, who have also left us in this matter and are running their own race, a race we do not know the consequences of – have agreed on a system that is ready to handle that more people can work. But we must not believe that this reform will get people to work. In order to achieve the reform, in order for it to be implemented, we need to organize society so that these people get to work, not just can work, that there is a working life ready to accept them. We need to facilitate that they can also use their efforts healthfully. Therefore, when we talk about the opportunities that people get through the new reform, we cannot look at the reform in isolation. We need to look at the whole of our policy of creating a more inclusive working life. Our job strategy is just about that. We know that already today there are people who can and will, but who don't get. Their problem is they don't get to work. Then comes the curtailment rules in a second row — when they don’t even get a curtailment. There are many areas where action is needed, and I am very pleased that the government is well-informed about a policy that will enable it to benefit from this reform. It's about early and strong efforts, it's about kindergarten, it's about education policy, it's about how to treat working life, and how to follow up when you're sick.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2641	Work is to be paid. The progress party is concerned about the group under 40 years of age – at least the very young, as there are several of those who become disabled. In fact, a disability often starts when they're in secondary school, and they have non-responses for different reasons. The measures taken here are very important to prevent disability for this group. The progress batch will require all persons under 40 years of age to have their working skills tested before being granted permanent disability benefits. People who are clearly unable to work should, of course, be permanently disabled. We have a lot of people who are able to contribute to the work even if they have a reduced function. There are these people we want to be able to participate actively, so that they can be economically independent, use their skills and abilities and be part of a social and inclusive working life. If someone asks young people if they want to be passive recipients of disability, the answer is no. I myself have received requests from less than 40 years of age, which is doubtful because they have not got the same opportunity as all of us to be in work. We can try to get into this situation ourselves – to get answers from Nav that it's just as good that a search for permanent disability benefits, because it's the easiest thing to do. This is actually a part of everyday life. It does something about our self-esteem. There's a group out there with competences and resources that we need, and to get them involved, they have to follow up more individually and more closely than many others. There has to be a focus on freshness, and it's going to pay off to work. The progress point wants a rating of your disability. I'd like to thank the representative Trine Skei Grande for bringing this up with maybe just 20 pst, which is very important for a lot of people. That's exactly what's going on for them to go on in the world of work for years. Many are in a situation where they actually have to learn to live with their disease, and then that 20 percent is enough for one to continue. We have to take care of that. Another story is if I know one. She finished her studies and started working at the age of 26. She got sick, and they couldn't find out what was wrong with her. Time passed, and she was diagnosed with long-term illness. They finally found out that it was just a request for disability, because it wasn't that much else to do. It was heavy for her. She wanted a career, which she didn't get. Fortunately, a specialist was able to break the code after a few years, and she got the right treatment – medically and surgically. So what do I do now? I am so good that the desire to start working again is actually there. She had the choice to be disapproved further in 50 pst. and in work 50 pst. But she thought it was difficult to start up so much. She might have thought of a graduation, so we've come up with a suggestion of – 20 pst. in the beginning and forward to 40 pst. And maybe reach the goal eventually, which she most wanted: to get back to full-time work. That's also the kind of thing we have to get into this debate. It's very important that we can think a little bit reversible, that those who are dissatisfied can actually, and that things happen. We have a medical and technological development that is constantly happening in our society. We also have to take that with us. That's why we're busy finding solutions. We need to look at possibilities and not lock ourselves in old patterns and just focus on the problems. We live in the same country. We live with the same challenges, and we live with the same human race. We're all living with the same benefits. We just have to do a little bit more for some of us. It's time to pull the load in the same direction, and then we have to focus on those who need help, and give everyone a chance to be a participant in the world of work, regardless of disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2658	Today we are dealing with a major reform that affects many. We live in an uncertain Europe. No other country, like us, can plan for increased welfare costs. In Europe, other tones include: well-being cuts, educational support cuts, pension cuts. More families have to leave home because they do not have income and because they do not have a job. We must understand that this is not because we live in Norway or because we live here north of the world. No, the fact that we can present a welfare reform today at the same time as a tight budget is due to political governance and forward-looking political decisions. This is also because we have a large and diverse workforce of women. They have contributed to more growth in the economy than oil. Or, in another way, women have been given a share in the welfare benefits associated with working, including disability. The future requires more people to work. More people have to participate in the value creation. If we are to continue to distribute fairly and predictablely according to the principles of solidarity, the Workers' Party slogan 'Work for all!' must be fulfilled. Only then will we succeed in being able to have welfare arrangements that make it possible to let things go wrong. Only then will the Community be able to conclude on the solidarity action: to redistribute revenue in a good and fair manner. Those who cannot work for periods or for the rest of their lives shall be sure that the community has decided that this is right and that this is fair. In Norway, disability shall be permitted. This solidarity contract has been given to each other by the provisions of the Law on People's Rights and now by the Reform. We shall be proud of this. At the same time, this seamless reform provides opportunities for work to be combined with health restrictions that individuals have, even when the health situation varies, and that work will always pay off. The reform is also part of a broader picture: a secure fiscal and financial policy, increased inclusion in the labour market, pension reform and the job strategy. The working party is concerned with a more decent working life and that more women should be able to work more. All of this plays a role in the big picture. The government will continue to work to improve and renew measures in this direction. That's good. The working party believes that everyone should have equal opportunities. In this perspective, good job clarification is important. Good job clearance is not just a medical question. Such a broad assessment shall focus not only on the limitations of disease and injury but also on the opportunities and resources actually available. However, the role of doctors is important in this cooperation. In a debate at NRK the other day, the Council of State and the head of the General Medical Association agreed on a joint responsibility for getting more people to work. That's good. Disability also leads to challenges for those standing around, spouses, cohabitants, parents and children. The size of the population made provision for comprehensive and coherent services for vulnerable children and young people and their families in the Nav Social Services Act in 2009. When the level of function of mother or father decreases, these children are affected. Now the preventive tool is there, for their benefit. I'm glad that the Christian People's Party is almost entirely in agreement with us. We have the same sense of solidarity at the bottom and respect for the right to be the recipient of the community's welfare systems. It is a little more difficult to find such similarities in the comments from the Right and even more difficult in the comments from the Progress Party. The right opens for a full review of all the aspects of the UN reform in 2018. I have them suspected of wanting to sneak in more. The tax policy of the right-hand side has no solidarity profile. An annual income of less than 200000 may be allowed to travel 20 more trips with the trick per year, with revenues of more than 3 million. kr can travel nine tours every day throughout the year! It is unsolidarian policy, or vice versa solidarity. The Progress Party will have fewer disability benefits and much more of them less than 40 years old on redundancy benefits with high activity requirements. This solves the Advance Party by cutting tens of millions of dollars in both redundancy and disability – thus less to act and follow up. It's nothing less than incredible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2677	It's worth working. It is important and essential that a new disability benefit has this as a premise. The follow-up of the individual is important, but at the same time it is also necessary to provide economic motivation for participation in the labour market. There's a lot we can do to get people back. We spend a lot of resources and money on different schemes to get people back to work faster. These measures have largely succeeded in treating disease. Professor Dag Bruusgaard of the Institute for Health and Society at the University of Oslo has found that there is a stronger link between education and disability than one has previously known. Therefore, according to Bruusgaard, it turns out that competence is as important as the treatment of disease. He recommends that more emphasis be placed on skills as part of getting people back to work. Competence and education are not only important to get people back to work, it is also a prerequisite for entering the labour market. Almost all young people receiving disability benefit have fallen from secondary education. Among those who went out of primary school in 1994, it's 4.5 pst. of the non-participants receiving social assistance in a randomly chosen month in 2007. This is 9.5 times larger than for those who completed secondary education. Long-term absenteeism is 2–3 percentage points higher among young adults not completing secondary education. This shows how important the work of getting more through higher education is for individuals and for society as a whole. Researchers have estimated that if the proportion of coal in secondary education increases from 70 to 80 pst, the social benefit may be about 5 billion. kr – 6 br. kr annually. In 2025, according to the SSB, there will be room on the labour market for only 3 pst. with upper secondary education. For the individual, increased knowledge requirements mean that completion of secondary education becomes a key to stable labour market membership and for further studies. We know that people who do not complete secondary education have poorer conditions for continuing education and further careers. Among young people aged between 20 and 24 who do not complete secondary education, there are 19 pst. outside both work and education against 5 pst. in the same age group as carried out. We know that professional skills from primary school are of great importance for whether or not young people undertake secondary education. Both national and international studies show that many of those entering higher education have weak basic skills. In order to prevent more in the future from turning to disability, the whole government’s commitment to education is important. The years from kindergarten to high school are particularly important. «I learned Norwegian in kindergarten, then there was no problem at school», said 11-year-old Adil, a student at Hallagbakken school in Oslo, in one case in the newspaper of the day last year. We know from research in the United States that pre-school provision aimed at disadvantaged children led to children performing better in school in both the short and long term, as well as several of them completing high school and taking university education. We have also seen in two studies, which have had the opportunity to follow pre-school children's participation in adult education, that pre-school measures had a very positive impact on the success of their children in working life. I think it is serious when the Right proposes increased nursery prices in its alternative budget. It could lead to lower participation in kindergartens among those who need it the most, and is a kind of policy that seems a little harmless here and now, but which could have major consequences in the long term. The government has a much more offensive and modern policy. New GIV — Implementation in secondary education — is a national tool to increase implementation in higher education. In addition to a historical bet on kindergarten and free core time in some areas, we continue to put forward an early effort through enhanced training in basic skills between 1 and 4. the school stage. Increases in hours in the subjects of Norwegian, math and English and free teaching assistance for all students at 1–4.steps are some of them. Other aspects of the initiative are good systems for transmitting relevant information about the student between primary and secondary education, as pointed out by the OECD, are important, closer follow-up of individual pupils and apprentices, better counselling services, more and practical vocational training, increased grants to apprenticeships and a close dialogue with the social partners in order to increase the number of apprenticeships. We know that the fact that there are not enough places to teach is a problem for young people to do well. The Labour Party and all the parties here, except the Advance Party, also believe that it is important that we use the power we have as purchasers in the departments, municipalities and county municipalities, and that other major buyers in Norway also use that power to ensure that there are recognised apprenticeships with apprentices who receive tenders and assignments. What happens in this matter from the government is both correct and important, but if we are to be able to solve the challenges around disability, the key is more education for more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2715	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2718	Two considerations have been crucial for the government parties in dealing with the under-privileged reform: to ensure economic security for those who are no longer able to work and to ensure the possibility of commuting between social security and work, depending on the individual’s abilities and abilities. Together with the pension reform, the impregnation is important building blocks in the construction work that we call the welfare state. Today, we are adopting a long-standing disability that has economic and political sustainability. I am very pleased that this reform also has broad support in the Storting, although the Right on a few important points is distancing itself from the reconciliation of all other parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, has gathered around. Through its resistance to the pension and disability reform, the Progress Party has emphatically placed itself on the sideline of Norwegian politics, and I am amazed that the Right and Christian People's Party is at all assessing future cooperation with a party that demonstrates to those degrees its lack of social responsibility. The party's many proposals have some price patches, and I'm going to take some of them. No living adjustment for disability pensioners will increase the population's social security contributions by 20 billion in 2050. In addition to the difference between the pension reform and an extension of yesterday’s pension scheme, for which the Progress Party is committed, there is an increase of 50 billion in expenditure alone. kr. If we eliminate the differentiation between the benefits of single and married cohabitants, it costs 700 million. kr annually. Increases in benefits for young disabled people, as proposed by the Progress Party, cost 2 billion. kr annually. Increased earnings base amounts to 750 million. kr annually, and a more favourable basis for calculation is estimated at SEK 1,25 billion. kr annually. In addition, there are several cost-driven proposals that cannot be calculated immediately. So first, a bill of 70 billion. kr to future generations, then an additional cost of SEK 4,5 – 5 billion. kr annually running from 2015. The party of progress has never cared about contexts and contexts, as the party is spreading with new billions for all good purposes. We are the richest country in the world, we must know, and we have money in the Pension Fund. This is the only way for the Progress Party to act as long as it is not forced to take responsibility. That is why we need an insurance policy here today from the potential partners of the Progress Party, namely the assurance that the Progress Party will never have any influence on Norwegian pension policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2735	To take the last one first: the right does not conduct government negotiations in an open-ended manner. Otherwise, the Norwegian welfare society, as built up through generations, is based on two central pillars. Firstly, that as much participation as possible in working life, and secondly, that we agree to ensure basic security for those who are unable to work. For the Right, the starting point is that each individual has a personal responsibility for himself, his own life and for the people around him, and at the same time that a voice and human society ensures all the opportunities for a decent life, regardless of background, income and working ability. For the right, the logical context of welfare policy is that working must pay off while ensuring good and decent support for those who are too sick to participate in the labour market. From 1995 until now, there has been an increase in both numbers and proportion of deaths. If we look at the numbers from 1980 to now, the increase is going to be even more marked. In particular, the strong increase in young people is worrying. This is a challenge for several reasons. This means that Norway does not use an important labour force resource, and it costs a lot of money. But first of all, it is a tragedy for the individual people involved, and as the Council of State just said, it should be fewer. We know that work and quality of life are closely related. We also know that work contributes to community and active participation. It becomes too easy to say as some people do, that all those who are dissatisfaction belong to the scheme – sentence finale. This applies in particular to part of those who are young disabled. We often hear stories about young people being offered disability benefits from Nav, when what they really want is help getting into work. We see, for example: that the proportion of epileptics entering work has fallen in recent years. It does not seem likely that there should be purely medical reasons why this proportion has increased in recent years. Many epileptics can work well initially as long as they are given some work organization. But according to their own organization, young epileptics experience too often to end up with disability. You can be tempted to ask Nav if it is possible to get someone on a permanent basis, so that you get rid of the often complicated job it is to get someone with special needs out in ordinary work. Neither for society nor for individuals, this is a sustainable solution. It is therefore disappointing to see that in a number of ways, good and solid reform of the malpractice system does not do enough to stagnate the growth of young people. It's a failure statement if we let this growth continue. I therefore hope that the Minister of Labour will start work as soon as possible with a targeted and knowledge-based approach to help more people from this group to work – as the case-rapporteur said: follow the reform of the labour market with a reinforced line of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2746	There has been an exciting day in the hall today. It's good to get this debate into the hall and not just sit and work on the numbers out in the corridors and in the debates, but actually start making the decisions and creating this reform. But there are a few things that I want to comment on. I had a reply addressed to the Progress Party about their arrangements earlier today, which I feel I got a little vague response to. I've done some math while I sat here and listened, and to take two different cases: If you were to be lonely with children and take all the restrictions, for example: that you can have a maximum performance of up to 80 pst. of the previous income for the children's allowances, the income may not exceed 100 pst. Before shortening the revenue, a solution is found where only 0,7 G is left to be used for its free amount, instead of those that can use 0.75 G, on the basis of the proposals of the Progress Party. So you're just going to make $55,000 before you start getting a full curtailment, while others are allowed to make 0.75 G, according to the Progress Party. In the same case, if you're young and have a baby, you're going to have a child supplement of 0.4 G. But since you set the frames so that you can only have this supplement up to 80 pst. of previous income, those who have been young disabled and have children will only be able to receive 0,3 G in children’s allowances before they receive a full curtailment. So it's about, who does you meet? I think this is about trying to build borders into a system that you haven't even designed, but trying to fix it. Then I have a comment on Laila Marie Reiertsen's concern that those who are on their way back to work after being 100 pst. failed, should not be able to do so. Both in today's system and in the new scheme, a gradual move back to full-time work. That means that you can have a reduced abbreviation, down to 20 pst, before the disability gets completely lost. So there's one thing that I'm a little doubtful about when it comes to the proposals that are on the table today. Do you really ask about the curtailment in old order compared to those with high income? I would assume that this applies to the new scheme. In that case, I can inform you that in the new scheme, the abbreviation for those with a previous high income will be lower than 66 pst. if you had a previous income above 6 G. That means they have a simpler abbreviation than the main weight of the disability. In the case of the old scheme, you can read the Proposition page 121. There you can see that with the old scheme you got a full curtailment if you had an income of over 1 G and the disability rate was 100 pst.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2759	First to the representative Sylvi Graham, who again repeats that there have been so many more on disability since 1980. I am sitting with the figures here showing that the proportion of both women and men — and especially women — who have been working from 1980 to today has increased dramatically. It's the generation that Graham and I represent, who have come into the labour market and earned their rights. That's why when you're unemployed, you have some rights that trigger social security. I wish that the representative Graham could say something positive about it, because it is very important for many women, who have more health problems related to working life than what men have. That's the way it is, unfortunately. So to this with whether going to social security goes into inheritance. No, it doesn't. It's the underlying social problems that are inherited. That's why SV is so busy that we have to have good children's supplements for the most difficult families, because the kids are going to have a childhood that allows them to participate in the same way as other kids in society. Then I think we all agree that the main problem here is that those who can and will work are not going to work. What do we do with that? The representative of Wickholm was up and pointed out some studies that show how important it is to receive education. I can refer to a study from the SSB, NOVA and NTNU presented in February 2009, which shows that there is a clear link between education and employment for the general population. The higher education, the more likely work. Even stronger is the effect of education for those with disabilities and disease. There are large differences — almost 40 points between primary and higher education. It turns out there's completely different things than what's been talked about here today, that's going to happen. In addition, what kind of working life are we going to create that those with poor health are going to enter into? The Swedish Government and the Swedish Government are committed to protecting the work environment law, to put in place strong measures against social dumping and to ensure the seriousness of the whole of their working life, because they are going to be in this working life with the worst health. Then it can't be that they're at risk of being exploited on the roughest and perhaps even getting even bigger health problems. I'm worried about this, because there's little evidence that working life in itself gives better space. I hear many employers complaining that there are too many people on disability, but unfortunately I see too few of them who say that there is a job with us for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2773	The next speaker is Torbjørn Røe Eriksen – Isaksen. The president saw that Røe Isaksen and Eriksson are following each other here. The next speaker after Røe Isaksen is Robert Eriksson. Røe Isaksen – please!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2776	Thank you, President! I should probably start calling myself Giäver Eriksen, so you can fit into new environments. First, I would like to thank you for a good debate. I think it's worth remembering that this is a reform that affects and engages very many people, although it's just the committee that is present here today. I just want to add a few comments to it – I'm not going to try to say it in a way that makes the debate go out again. It's a little difficult when you use the word ‘choice’, because it's quite obvious – and I agree with the representative Karin Andersen and everyone else who has said it – that there are no people sitting there thinking how they can make the best use of our system. Nevertheless, we have to remember that at the individual level. At the same time, at macro level, we know that the level of performance has something to say about how many are entering into a performance. Then there's a perspective that I think is very important. My point is not that this single mother who goes to work every day, who pays money on the bus or to have a car, who spends money on work clothes and food packages – all of these things – suddenly finds out that she chooses to take disability instead. But her tax dollars also go into the system, and that system must be reasonable for her as well. Then I think it's fundamentally unreasonable that if you have a labour income on e.g. 330,000, 340,000 or 350,000 kroner, to which the Brochmann committee has referred, you know that if you don't work, and you have exactly the same situation in life, you can get as much or more than you have if you go to work every single day. It's an unfairness regardless of the individual's mindset. Then I agree that these are complicated issues, because it is that participation in employment in Norway is high, but it has led to more people leaving the labour market while we have more than one job. I think we have to be so honest as to say that the scheme is also a system to combat poverty, but it is not only due to the deterioration of the health of the population, rather on the contrary; we are getting healthier. But this is due, for example, to: labour market, lack of access to jobs, but also social structure in some places. This is why there is relatively good research evidence to say that — ‘infection’ is a very bad word to use — it is a social effect that many people in a local community receive disability benefits. I'll finish there. I agree with Karin Andersen that it is essential that there are some fundamental causes of poverty or new poverty that are inherited. And it also makes a statistical relationship between having a parent who's disabled and having a parent who's disabled. But it's not an automatic. I even have a mother who's not ready. That doesn't mean that it's automatically that I'm being lazy. But it is that some fundamental social differences in our society are reproduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2791	I want to say something briefly about some of the attacks that have occurred. I have to say that I am a little confused – some people in this Chamber may say that there is nothing new, they have been hearing for a long time – when one hears a rhetoric where on the one hand it is argued that the proposals of the Progress Party will lead to fewer discontents, that we will send ill-adapted people out into an endless round of dances, and on the other hand we hear the Council of State from this pulpit saying that our proposal will lead to more dismayed people. It would have been expected that the parties in the government would have agreed what the effect of our proposals is. Then I register that the representative Pollestad says that the reason why you don't want to increase the income for the young people, the most disadvantaged people who have had a disability, is that you have had to make an economic priority. That is to say – again contrary to what Karin Andersen says – that we now have a very good system, and that the most important thing for SV has been to ensure a high level of income for those outside. So I find a bunch of these things that aren't completely related, but now leave it. So for the calculation of Tove Brandvik, it's going to be very wrong to make the kind of calculations where you mix social security income and income. The two things should be kept apart, then the maths become much more correct, and then they also get better to understand. So let's re-configure the math with those separations, and then we can look at it together. But then there's some things that I think it's important to be told from this pulpit. This concerns something that the representative Røe Isaksen has also been involved in, the housing aid scheme. There is a proposal on which we stand together, both the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right, which is: ‘The government is asked to provide an overall review of the housing aid scheme in good time before the entry into force of new disability benefits.’ I hope that the government, the government council and the government parties will notice it and start that work, so that we are sure to bring that problem up in good time before new disability problems begin to work. And so was Torbjørn Røe Isaken on what might be the big challenge, which we might have to have a lot of debates about in the future, and that's that we have gradation both in terms of sickness pay and disability benefit. I think that is positive, but it also requires us to have a different working life where there is room for the new workers who do not have the full ability to work. It means more part-time jobs, it means a more flexible working life, and how we're going to succeed is a separate debate. But it's a serious debate that we have to take on board in this Chamber, about how we're going to manage to create jobs, so that these people get to take full advantage of their working capacity. We will probably come back to that, and I look forward to that debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2809	The representative, Karin Andersen, has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2812	It is true that in this setting, the Progress Party proposes that those under 40 years of age should not be able to get disability benefits if they are not almost born ill. So the representative Eriksson said in an article that they would of course have a different performance. I have looked through the setting three times to see if it is something I have overlooked, but the income protection that the Progress Party says these young people should have is not in this setting. So this is a roundtable between redundancy money and social assistance, maybe from you're 20 till you're 40, for people with unsolved health problems, poor advice and not the ability to establish themselves. No, it is a very bad arrangement to implement what the Progress Party is proposing today, and I am very pleased that the Progress Party has not had an influence on the design of the disability.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2819	The representative Robert Eriksson has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2822	I record that SV repeats the same untruths over and over again. I think it might have been commendable if at least you had listened to what we've said, and related to what we're saying from this pulpit, and took it over. We actually mean what we say from this pulpit. Yes, we think it is wrong that people who have working skills should be permanently disabled. We think it's much more important, especially for young people, that a close race is being set up to get more of them into work. They're not going to go for a round dance for 20 years, but they're going to have a much closer follow-up program. It's described, and we also have a proposal with the Right that we want to look at such a program. Then it is quite obvious that there will be a benefit in relation to the programme that will not leave them without income. We have said that, and it is also stated in our resolution adopted at the national meeting. We have said it and repeated it repeatedly from this pulpit, but nevertheless SV chooses to present falsehoods.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2829	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 1514]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2845	I'm not going to add up to a long debate. The progress party has a minority proposal in this setting, and I just want to explain it briefly. We want to propose increased appropriations for voluntary teams and organisations, especially for those working in the fight against poverty. I now register that in several municipalities, among others, The option ‘Alternative Christmas’ is added, both on the basis of the lack of human resources and the lack of financial resources. I think that's very unfortunate, and I think that's a pity. Therefore, the Progress Party wishes to propose an additional allocation of 15 million. kr to ensure that the weakest, especially the children of the weakest, can also meet a worthy and Merry Christmas in 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2850	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2853	It is possible to have sympathy for such a proposal if it had come at a time when it would have been possible to implement it. In the budgets submitted each year by the Progress Party, this proposal never comes up. On the other hand, every single year comes up precisely at this time of year – at the beginning of December – when it is completely impossible, even practical, to implement it. So I just want to encourage those who want to get this into, that you work with the ordinary budgets, because it's important that you do something to secure those who are disadvantaged, something extra for Christmas. But it has to be done in a serious way, so that it can be dealt with and, if necessary, implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2858	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1523]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2874	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after contributions by the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2883	This is a happy day for Norwegian families with young children. There have been many of them with this government. The grip adopted by the Storting today has been announced for a long time, and it has been very long-awaited by young children's parents. We target with this grip, and we strengthen the cash support for 1-year-olds. With the government’s policy towards Norwegian young children’s parents, they have been given increased freedom of choice and freedom to take the decisions that are best in combining responsibility for children with the responsibility for securing family income for both parents. We have contributed to increased freedom of choice through increased parental leave. We have contributed to increased freedom of choice through the action we are now taking with cash support and to a significant increase in freedom of choice through the introduction of a right to kindergarten, which ensures that all children are given the opportunity to have a good growth and to stand on their own feet and succeed in their future. These grips are very important for families, but they are also very important for society. Looking at what is common to those countries in Europe that are struggling most to deal with the aftermath of the financial crisis, it is that those countries also have relatively few women in their working life. While looking at those countries in Europe that are successful in coping with the aftermath of the financial crisis — successful in transition — and are experiencing growth today, the country with a high employment rate is also among women. They are an enormous engine in the conversion work and in terms of the ability to increase their competitiveness internationally. At that time, societies must have a policy that ensures that women can actually combine working with having responsibility and caring for children. This government, with its overall approach, has done well both in terms of parental leave, which ensures that not only women are at home with children, but also that fathers have a large portion of leave time, through the cash support scheme, which ensures that they can combine responsibility for children with the fact that one of the parties is working while one is at home, and the right to kindergarten, which ensures that the time you want to go back to work, you have the opportunity to do so through the provision of a nursery place. All of these things have come as a result of a long fight where the left side has had to drag the right side after the hair. This will also be reflected in this debate, I believe, where it will be claimed that this will give less freedom of choice to Norwegian young children's parents. On the contrary, this helps to increase the freedom of choice of young children's parents, and it ensures good time with children, seen in combination with all the other great grips that this government and our brilliant government council have done in this field.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2898	It is always a pleasure to listen to the contributions of Stokkan-Grande, and whether we agree or disagree, he has kept the mood. In the case of the Progress Party, cash support has always been an important mechanism which is intended primarily to make all young children’s parents equal with regard to transfers of public funds to childcare. In addition, the Progress Party believes that cash support is, in fact, an important arrangement for the family’s freedom of choice. It is good for parents who want to spend time with their children in the first years of life to be able to do so. Then Stokkan-Grande began his speech by saying that it was a happy day. It is tempting to say that it is a sad day, but it is perhaps to take a bit of a hard time. But for the Advancement Party, it is important that the family should be able to adapt and organise its daily life more according to the needs of each family. Unfortunately, that is not the case today. When the government removes the cash support for two-year-olds next year, the government makes it more difficult in terms of freedom of choice and its possibilities. However, the progress party is pleased that we have almost reached full kindergarten coverage, and that very many families choose kindergartens. We see that the results of the kindergarten agreement have led to an increase in the number of children going to kindergartens. Nevertheless, we believe that parental freedom of choice is important, and that cash support is such an important part of this freedom of choice that it should be maintained as it is today, so that families can be allowed to choose for themselves. It's up to parents to choose childcare, but we see that the focus on children's play, learning and socialisation can be an important explanation for the fact that someone in their second year of life already chooses to take advantage of the right to kindergarten. For some parents kindergarten is the best for your family and for your child, but it is also important that those who want to choose cash support get the opportunity to do so. Although the Progress Party is opposed to cutting off the cash support for two-year-olds, the Progress Party will favour the government so that one now strengthens the cash support for the youngest children. Nevertheless, we believe it is a mistake to remove it for two-year-olds. As I have said before, for many years cash support has been an important mechanism to ensure good freedom of choice for families with children in their own daily lives, and it has been important for the Progress Party to maintain this freedom. I would like to point out that safety and time are important for children's growing-up conditions, and then it must be possible for each family to choose what is best from their everyday lives. What is special about the matter that we are dealing with today is that the cheer has probably not stood in the roof, which the government had hoped for. We now see in these budget hours around the municipalities that more and more municipalities now choose to introduce a local cash support. The government can thank itself for this. The government chose last year, despite many warnings – including from the Progress Party – to transfer babysitting to the municipal framework, and some results we now see: before, every child had a baby in the nursery, now gets one for every child living in the municipality. In addition, the level of parental education is expected. In other words, a lot of big differences. Yes, I could frame many negative effects that the conversion of kindergarten funding has led to. Now local municipal politicians have realized that it is more reasonable to introduce local cash support to their two-year-olds than to spend the money on kindergartens. This could not have been the government's intention. Nevertheless, instead of weakening the freedom of choice of small children’s families, the Progress Party will give tribute to local politicians, as the government puts it. The progress party just thinks it's a little bit a shame that there are only some families of young children who get pleasure from this. It will be exciting to follow developments in this case when we now get an overview of how many municipalities are introducing local cash support in the future, and what the government intends to do with it. The Progress Party can at least promise that we will continue to fight for the cash support as it is today, and that freedom of choice for families with children will become important in the future. We are therefore going to vote against the law as it exists, and I refer to our alternative state budget in the case of the family committee, which is being dealt with on Thursday, where the Progress Party maintains the cash support scheme as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2931	Right wants to ensure the family flexibility and freedom of choice, so that they can manage their lives as they want. The right is confident that the families themselves know best how to care for the needs of their children, while at the same time ensuring the proper functioning of their own lives. Cash support is an important scheme for families who want it. Right will facilitate good family life. The cash support is about the care of our children, the very best we have. The right is pleased that we are with the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, and with the government, in strengthening the cash support for the youngest children. But like the Christian People's Party and the Advancement Party, the Right is very sceptical about removing the right to cash support for children between two and three years of age. We are concerned that safety and time are important for children's growing-up conditions, and therefore we want to strengthen families as the most important community of children. In our family policy, we see that the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right are constantly concerned that the family is the most important framework – and community – around the growth of children. We are also concerned that the focus on the family is being set aside, and for the Right, we are very concerned that equality dominates more and more of what is related to the child's growing-up conditions. I record that it is not only the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party that are concerned about the government's development in this area, but also that representatives of the government parties are very much concerned. The right is very much in agreement with the representative Ramsøy from the Central Party, who is going hard against the Minister for Gender Equality. The representative Ramsøy from the Center Party is very concerned in our country on 14 November that equality policy has taken over, and the Center Party lacks an overall focus on family policy. The representative Ramsøy said in the interview in Our Country 14 November: ‘Take, for example, equality. That as much as possible share the parental leave equally looks good on statistics, but is it good family policy?’ And on the other hand, ‘What is best for equality and what is best for the family is not necessarily the same.’ Ramsøy is requesting a family message. It was promoted last during the Bondevik II government. I am pleased that it is now quite clear that there is a great deal of disagreement in the government about what is to be the government's family policy and gender policy, or at least that it goes so far that representatives of the central parties in the United Kingdom, including those responsible for family policy, go out in the paper and say that enough is enough, now we have to take the children into account, now we have to take into account the family, and that equality policy must not take full advantage of and govern what is involved in children's growth conditions and integration policies, and how we should pursue family policy. Much has happened in recent years with the development of kindergarten, the changes in the cash support scheme and the detailed management of parental leave. That's right concerned about. We see that freedom of choice and flexibility for families are increasingly being systematically removed, because we want to meet other needs, which are not primarily about the family's ability to take care of their children and organise everyday life for the best of the family. But I'm glad that the Christian People's Party, the Advance Party and the Right are united in wanting more freedom of choice for their parents, and that once again we clearly say that more detailed regulation and excluding the family freedom of choice are the wrong way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2956	As the previous speaker well illustrated, it is a controversial topic we have to deal with today. Cash support has been controversial since its introduction in 1998. There is no secret that SV has been opposed to the cash support. We are opposed because it is a poor policy on equal opportunities, it is a poor policy on inclusion, and not least it is a poor policy on sharing. Distribution is not always the most advanced perspective in this discussion, but it is absolutely crucial. The cash support is a class question, and I would like to quote from the distribution message: ‘In particular, cash support appears to contribute to the choice of kindergarten by families with low income and education, while children from these families are likely to benefit most from kindergarten.’ So if the representative of Hofstad Helleland and others are concerned with the best interests of children, they should just be with us on this issue, because this is just about the kids who need the most to go to kindergarten, whether it's language or little resources elsewhere in the home. Ten years ago, in 2001, Stortinget evaluated the cash support. Already then, there was a big discussion about the inclusion effect of it, and both the then Councillor Laila Davay and the representative Dagrun Eriksen stated that the cash support could have adverse effects on inclusion. So I hope that the Christian People's Party will have a more progressive attitude towards it in this debate than they had about two weeks ago, when they thought that SV was a ‘stigmatizing’ party that took this up as a problem issue. That's an important part of the discussion. In addition, I would mention that over 80 pst. of the cash beneficiaries, women, and, as we know, professional activity is central to equality. Cash support has helped to consolidate traditional gender roles and is still very traditional in terms of who receives such support. I will also clarify some common misunderstandings in this debate. The cash support is not money to be at home. The cash support is money to avoid using a public offer, which is child care, and when the cash support was introduced, it was mainly used for day care and black babysitting. The cash support was the way of the bourgeois government to buy out of the kindergarten bet, and therefore I think it is quite hollow when the Right says that this government has weakened the freedom of choice. It is precisely this government that has given the family freedom of choice, given the opportunity to choose kindergarten, and it is a policy that in practice has wiped out the cash support, for almost all selected kindergartens when they were offered this. That is a good compromise that has been adopted today. This is an example of the fact that even where opinions and inputs differ, good solutions can be found. I'm more excited about how the opposition is going to work out in the family policy than how we can do it in our red-green. Our decision is good for equality, and it is not least good for the kids who are now going to go to kindergarten.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e2976	The thing we're going to deal with here today is evidence that this government is able to deal with issues where we have quite different positions. That is why I believe this is a day when all the government parties have reason to be satisfied. The representative of the Christian People's Party said in the previous debate about cash support, when we discussed a proposal from the Progress Party, that it would be interesting to be «fly on the wall» when the government parties discuss cash support. But with the previous cash support debate in fresh memory, I can say the same about the opposition: If it had become a government consisting of the Right Party, the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party, it would have been interesting to see how they had chosen to solve this question. The cash support is an important matter for the Central Party, and it was very important for us that this scheme should be maintained and preferably further developed when we chose to enter into a government cooperation with the Workers' Party and SV. In this case, the government proposes a strengthening of the cash support for the one-year-olds, and that is a matter that is very important to many. Not least, it is fully in line with the program of the Centre Party. It is part of and strengthens freedom of choice and is particularly important for many in the transition between parental leave and work. What we especially get a lot of feedback about is that it's after a year of leave that you want a slightly softer transition before you go back to full-time work. It's just this government is now facilitating. Those who oppose the cash support often use integration as an argument against it. It is important to say that there is actually a relatively small proportion of immigrants receiving cash support, and when we target this scheme against the 1-year-olds, this will be an argument that is less relevant. The same applies to the argument on language development. So I think it's important to nuance the debate a little, because it can often sound as if the large part of those who use the cash support are both low-integrated and so-called low-resource families. But then it is also important to remember that in fact, there are many people who choose to be at home a little longer than what is normal, because they believe that it is best for their family and their children – that there is not necessarily the best thing about kindergartens in all cases. It is also important to include in the debate that this target group is more complex than it may sometimes seem. So has a common concern about what is really demand for small children’s families – kindergarten or cash support? There is no doubt that a large majority chooses kindergarten. But then the question is, how do you choose to interpret these numbers? I believe that this is also an economic assessment that the families are making, and that it is too easy to draw the conclusion that the cash support is not wanted. It is also argued that cash support keeps women out of work and that it can contribute to poor integration. There, I believe it is important to show that it is the total support and the overall effects of the welfare goods that are pointed to as challenges in many investigations, and then it is easy to blame for the cash support. But I understand that it can also be appropriate, if there is a scheme you are in any case against. I believe, however, that it can contribute to a little simplification of a complex theme, which integration is actually. The government chooses to increase freedom of choice for families just by increasing the amount of support, so that even more families have the opportunity to stay at home. So the representative from the Right commented on a play I've had in our country. Now I have to say that the representative from the Right exaggerates the disagreement and maybe makes it a little more dramatic than it actually is. What I think is important is that you become much more aware that there is an overall focus on family policy and a comprehensive focus on how we want to develop family policy in the future. I'm very much in favour of the father's quota, but at the same time it must be allowed to point out that it's not always that all equality measures, and what will contribute to the most equality, are what's best for the family. If that were the case, you'd probably have gone in for a two-thirds of the parental leave at an earlier stage. Then there is reason to remember that if it had been such that in my party you had felt that you had got more left to cooperate with the right-hand side of family policy, you would not have chosen to join a collaboration with the Workers' Party and SV. But that's exactly what we're doing, and that's because we believe that we get the most out of our family policy by cooperating with the Workers' Party and SV. Then you have a different approach to this matter, but I note that the opposition parties also have some of the questions. The Christian People's Party can defend much of our policy on parental leave, while the Right and the Advance Party do not choose to defend it. So there are disagreements, but as far as this is going to be done, it's probably not. We live very well in the government cooperation that we are now part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3004	Whether this is a day of joy or grief, there may be different opinions depending on the position, but it is a day that for cash support supporters is a brand day, and that provides the basis for some interesting reflections. Cash support was introduced in 1998 by the Central Government – the Christian People’s Party, the Centre Party and the Left – during a hard debate, and it has been controversial all the way. If someone had said six years ago that the cash support would last after six years by a red-green majority, and that we would sit, after six years, and discuss changes such as that only the cash support for two-year-olds would be removed, while it would be increased for the first six months, it would probably have given fairly high odds. I believe that the summary shows that the cash support has been a popular, strong and robust scheme. I want to take a few myths that get a little too much space in the debate. First, myth no. one: most opt out of the cash support. That's wrong. In fact, most people choose to use the cash support. Myth No. two: Cash support is a problem for language development. I have to say that I have the benefit of meeting some cash beneficiaries who speak Norwegian well, so it is possible that this is true. Or could it be because cash beneficiaries are one-year-olds and two-year-olds? Myth No. three: Cash support is a problem for integration. It is an undocumented claim that I made in depth in our previous debate on the subject. The various samples to which reference is made — the more samples that have addressed the issue — have not documented that claim, but they have proposed to remove the cash support because it is an incentive for more people to choose to be at home. It may be agreed or disagreed, but there is no evidence that integration is a problem. Most of the cash beneficiaries are Norwegian families, and my claim is that most immigrant families using the cash support are well integrated. Myth No. four: Cash support is a problem for equality. Yes, if equality is about everyone choosing what the majority of the population thinks, or what a government council and department in Akersgata thinks, then there is a problem for equality. But if equality is about enabling modern women to make free choices, then cash support is a strength for equality. Myth No. five is that the removal of cash support results in the entry into employment of women who are either poorly integrated or have weak labour market links. As far as I am aware, 8 000 two-year-olds receive full cash support. The government proposes 1 160 new kindergartens in the budget. I want to see the one who dares to claim that the 1,160 nursery places, with a potential of 8 000, are for the proportion of families with women who speak poor Norwegian and are poorly integrated, and that they are the ones who then come out of work with that strategy. For the Christian People's Party, freedom of choice is a matter of cash support or kindergarten. That's why we want both of them. That's why we've supported every single nursery that's been built up in the last few years. On the left hand side, I got the impression that freedom of choice is about kindergarten or kindergarten. But when the state budget came, we were clearly informed that for the red-greens, freedom of choice is nothing or nothing. For those families who now lose the cash support, they should not have children's garden space, they should only be left with NOK 3 300 per month. Then you can talk about distribution policy and class issues and what they are, but the truth is that this is simply subtracting $3,300 from the economy of small children's families. That is the result, and it shows the budget in plain language. I'm not going to say if it's a day of joy or sorrow, but it's a day of truth, because it shows the ideological differences in this room: who has confidence in the families, and who doesn't have it, and who talks about competitiveness when we talk to others about the growing-up conditions of kids.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3027	It is an important day – a brand day – when Stortinget now has proposals for the conversion of cash support. The bill provides for cash support to be wound up for the two-year-olds from 1 August 2012. In my opinion, cash support has many negative consequences, and I am therefore pleased with the decision that Stortinget is now going to take. The scheme is particularly unfortunate for gender equality and integration reasons. For the government and for me, it is an important objective to achieve a more balanced distribution of care and professional activity between women and men, and cash support works in the opposite direction. With the cash support, it is more profitable not to go to work than it is if the cash support is removed – especially if the income is low. Women have, as you know, lower wages on average than men. This increases the risk of mother choosing to be at home with her child – and not with her father. That's how traditional gender roles are maintained, and children miss kindergarten, which we know is a good educational and socially developing offer. Families with a migrant background use cash support to a greater extent than those who do not have a migrant background, and there is a trend that we have seen in the last few years. We also know that women with a migrant background have lower employment than other women. For some in that group, therefore, cash support can be particularly an incentive not to apply for work outside the home. It is unfortunate when we want both women and men to participate as much as possible in gainful employment and children to go to kindergarten. It is also unfortunate because we know that both are important to combat both current and future poverty among the minority population in Norway. The government therefore follows the advice we have received from several public authorities, and proposes the liquidation of the cash support for the two-year-olds from August next year. Of course, it will not be the case that all two-year-olds who will no longer receive cash support come to kindergarten from August 2012. Nor will it ever be such that all mothers who are working at home today go to work. However, the liquidation of cash support is an important, long-term measure to improve both equality and integration. The proposal for the winding-up of the two-year-old scheme must be seen in the context of the introduction of a right to kindergarten. All children are allowed to sit, at the latest from the age of two. The freedom of choice lacking in 1998 and used by some as an argument for introducing cash support is currently available because the freedom of choice of small children's families has been significantly strengthened under the red-green government. Although many municipalities also offer nursery facilities between the main entrances, some children have to wait a little before they have children's garden space. There is a reason why I believe that what the government is proposing to strengthen the cash support for the youngest one-year-olds makes sense. Not all parents want the child to start in kindergarten immediately after the end of the parental leave period, and with the single admission scheme many people also have to wait a while before being given the opportunity. Therefore, for the youngest one-year-olds, we propose to increase the rate of full cash support to NOK 5000 per month. In addition, we propose a simplification of the rate structure for the 1-year-olds, so that either full or half of cash support is provided, depending on kindergarten use. What we are presenting here today is probably a good example of the fact that the red-green parties are able to find a good consensus on important family and gender policies. It shows that the three parties are united on important issues of family and gender equality policy. We also stand together against the bourgeois opposition in what is the main lines of conflict in this field – not only those we know well from before, the discussion about the birth rate and parental leave, but now also about what kind of cash support system we are going to have. The legislative proposal before us today is positive for equality. It will also be positive for integration. At the same time, it ensures the consideration of day-care centres and the flexibility of families for the first time after the end of the parental leave period. It is therefore also a contribution to an even greater opportunity for the families of young children to adapt well-careed children when they are young, to the often demanding professional life that we know many parents have today. That is why this is also a good proposal for children, and I am pleased that the majority of the committee supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3042	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3046	In these budget days, it turns out – as I said in my post – that some of the municipalities are introducing their own local cash support. It's because it turns out they can use the babysitting money that's come, because they're not ear-marked kindergartens. A lot of people choose to provide local cash support, because they see that the families will then have an freedom of choice that this government does not give them. So my question to the Council of State is whether he supports these local politicians in that they are now introducing local cash support to their families with young children.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3053	As I said in my post, I believe there are serious grounds for gender equality policy, and also important reasons for integration policy, not to have cash support for two-year-olds. That is, I would not recommend any local government to adopt it. At the same time, the municipalities where citizens have chosen civil society are free to introduce these types of schemes. However, I would warn against using local cash support as a simple way away from the obligation of municipalities to provide nursery facilities for anyone who needs it. I note with concern that e.g. The rapporteur of the Progress Party in Os, Terje Søviknes, says to the Bergensavisen on 7 December that: «for the municipality of Us, it is economically advantageous to pay cash support of approximately SEK 5000 per month instead of to fund kindergarten space for all 2 year olds». If that is the motivation, I will warn against it and stress the obligation of municipalities to ensure the right to children's playground for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3063	The representative from the Central Party, Christina Nilsson Ramsøy, said that the representative of the Right Party was exaggerating instead, when I referred to the representative's performance, and it would have been interesting to ask whether the Council of State agrees with the representative's quote that the family should never become the arena for equality – but I should leave that to be the case. I just want to stress that in my post instead, I only referred to quotations from the Central Party's family-political spokeswoman. But now leave it. The Council of State here says that the cash support has many unfortunate consequences, and therefore the government removes the cash support. Why, then, does the government strengthen cash support so much for children between one and two years of age, if it is so unfortunate for these children and for these parents for integration purposes? Would it not have been better for the red-greens to remove the cash support altogether rather than strengthen it for them between one and two years?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3070	There is a very big difference between a cash payment paid beyond two years, and that keeps children out of kindergarten and mother for a long time, and what we are doing now is giving a higher support a short period where many families, among other things. lack of the possibility of having children's gardening space. When we're in the situation that in many places in the country we only have one head opening for the kindergartens, I think it's a good handshake for the small children's families. I am of those who thrive very well in government with the Center Party. There's a lot of sense in the Center Party program. The issue we are dealing with today is also a very good example of the fact that the red-green parties are doing what the citizens are going to do if they are going to build their government option, namely sew together big and important reforms in family policy, which I believe all three parties with their hands on the heart can say that we are very proud of and happy that we are adopting tonight.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3077	Now there is no statement from those parties that they have plans to sew together some such reform, but I would still say that perhaps it is an even greater challenge for families who now lose their cash support and don't get kindergarten space, to sew together their household budget from August 1, 2012, when the government has put them in that position. Because as I was in my post, only 160 new places should be added to all the families that are now losing the cash support for the two-year-olds. I just want to repeat my question, which I did not get the answer to in the previous cash support debate: Who does the Council of State think they are 1 160? Is it the proportion of the cash beneficiaries who have poorly integrated mothers who speak poor Norwegian? Is that the proportion that's going to get into work over the 160's, or who is it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3084	The estimates we are making in the State budget are what the departments concerned have been able to best estimate from what we know today about what will be the situation next year. It would be completely irresponsible for the government to provide any other figures for the Storting than that. So it's important to see that what we're looking at is a snapshot of how we think this will be next year. The long-term effects of the changes in the cash support I think will be greater. But this includes, among other things: depending on the implementation of the measures, such as: This is why minority women have some meaning to go to. We are doing well, for example. as regards the development of the New Chance Programme, of other important measures for qualification, language training, and the general work to improve the position of women in Norwegian working life, inter alia. work towards involuntary part-time. So I think the results will come. I note that the majority have also said a number of things about this and that the need for kindergartens to emerge next year should be met and financed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3093	So the line change is over. Those who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3098	It's well done to call this a reform. This is to deprive many citizens of a well-being in this country. It is rare to read a proposal that is then to those degrees unprincipled. What's good for the two-year-olds is not good for those who are between one and two years old. You increase the cash support for the one-year-olds and completely remove it for the two-year-olds. And then you even do some kind of rationale for why you do it that way. Of course, this is a compromise, it should be admitted – a red-green conspiracy of a compromise, where the one-year-olds suddenly enjoy an offer to be at home and receive cash support, while for the two-year-olds it is the very opposite that, in order to quote the Council of State, you have to prevent a system – it is well done by a council of states to say it, I have to admit it – that keeps children out of kindergarten and keeps mother out of work. It is clear that if you have such a view of what family is for something, and what it will mean, and what it means to have care for your own children – that it is a matter of keeping children out of kindergarten or keeping mother out of work – I can at least understand part two of the reason for what has been presented. But this is as much true for one-year-olds as for two-year-olds, you would think, and we know, of course, that the Workers' Party and SV have that faith. I fully agree, this shows important lines of conflict in the Norwegian political landscape with the red-green – and I don't really think the Center Party is part of this, I just read Christina Nilsson Ramsøy's statement in our country the other day. It shows that some people believe that the family actually has the ability to make choices and their own according to the needs of care you see, while the majority sees that the state is the one that has to rule to the minimum detail, at least as long as you can use the economic whip to achieve the ideological goals you have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3109	I just have to be allowed to say that I think that the representative of Hofstad Helleland had a very strange post, where she makes it as if there is a contradiction between having a good family policy and having a good equality policy. I totally disagree with that. Because if you start looking at what's of research, of recent dates, it turns out that in like-minded families, there are fewer divorces, less violence, less conflict, and these families are more happy than other families. It must be both a good family policy and a good equality policy when you can find such answers in equal families. Then there's a debate about what's freedom of choice. Is it true that the most important option is to choose between two care options? For me as a social democrat, the ultimate freedom of choice is that we Norwegian women are not forced to make the choices that Italian and German women actually have to make. They have to choose – shall I have children, or shall I be active? We're in the wonderful situation that we can actually pick both parts, and that must be the ultimate freedom of choice. When I listen to Hofstad Greece's contributions, I start to wonder: What is family policy? In the 1970s, when Inger Louise Valle was Minister of Administration, she got her bureaucracy to design a family policy. After she told them to make a family policy, they came back to her with the answer, and that was among other things.: construction of kindergartens, introduction of parental leave, introduction of days off in the event of a child’s disease. This was what in the 1970s was the answer to what was a good family policy. I just have to admit that I believe it is the same answer today. A good family policy is a policy that makes it possible for mother and father to be at home with their child in their first year of life, to have a good family life at the same time as being able to work. This debate is primarily about cash support. I believe that the solution that the majority in this room have come up – to escalate the cash support for the smallest, for the 1-year-olds, and cut it out for the two-year-olds – is actually a very good model. Because someone really needs to go to kindergarten, it's the minority two-year-olds. That's when you start developing languages, that's when you really need to be with other kids who already speak Norwegian well. So the solution we're now finding is that we're dealing with, among other things. provides a little extra cash support in a transitional phase between parental leave and kindergarten, we think is a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3120	I just want to stress that I stand for the quotations that Hofstad Helleland referred to in his post – but perhaps then without this very dramatic voice and the great signs that I almost came up with a warning. That's more what I put into it with an “exaggeration”. What's important to me is that we should get a more comprehensive focus on the family and not just focus on narrow debates, such as the feather quota and cash support. They're also important, but family policy is about a lot more. There may be issues that are within the territory of another department, and it is important to see that it can also be very relevant to the family. It's about how much time we spend at home, and how much time we spend at work. I must stress that I do not wish to go back to where there was a mother who was at home on the kitchen bench, and a father who was out working, but the development we have had does, of course, mean that both are very much out working full-time, which also leads to demanding things at home. These are things I think we should discuss. The question of a longer school day, with which the Ministry of Knowledge is involved, also affects the family. In issues where equality and family policy go in the same direction — the spring quota may be an example of that — this is not a problem. But for me, it's important to see that in some cases, the argument for equality and the argument for what's best for the family may seem a little different. I think we need to be aware of that, and I think my partners in the government are, but we might have a little different input into where this boundary goes. So it's like the family has a value in itself. It's a quote I stand for, and I think a lot of people share it here. But when the Christian People's Party is in favour of the father's quota, it is said that one still has an freedom of choice, and that it is positive, but when we are in favour of this change in cash support, it is referred to as an ideological whip and very – as well – dramatic to have to reduce freedom of choice. It just shows that you have a little different input into what you put in ‘freedom of choice’, and what we think is okay that the state agrees to say something about, and what we don’t think it’s okay that they say something about. So they say this is a mixture of very much strange red-green, but I have to take a very strong distance from it, because I see that this proposal is actually in line with the program of the Center Party, where we also said that we want to target arrangements just as it is now. I must also point out that more people are addressing the challenges that the municipalities will face – that they have not been counted correctly. I want to warn you not to make politics out of something that's really a technical calculation, because that's what this is about. The majority have said in their comments that if it's a challenge, if it turns out you've miscalculated, then the municipalities will have to increase their transfers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3135	I'm not going to spend a lot of time on these clarifications about what's really the red-green policy, who's in agreement with what, and who's lost and won in this compromise that we're obviously discussing today. I noticed that the case rapporteur, the representative of Stokkan-Grande, was very clear in his speech about this as a left-hand struggle. It wasn't the red-green that focused on him, and that's interesting in itself. Otherwise, the representative Knutson Barstad mentioned that we had used the word ‘stigmatisation’ in the previous debate we had here in the Chamber on this topic, which clearly fell SV’s representatives heavily on the chest. Yes, I'm saying that using statistics in the way SV constantly does in this debate is in a very unfortunate way about putting a group of people in the booth. I think you should be too good for that, and there I stand by what I have said. Then I would like to remind you of a point that has not been made so far in the debate. The NOUs and the reports submitted are still referred to, which have commented, among others. the cash support. It was referred to distribution policy and class issues. Yes, now there are, among other things, The distribution committee stated clearly that if cash support is removed, compensatory measures must be introduced, because in the group receiving cash support, low-income families are overrepresented. First of all, you have not taken compensatory measures, and second, you leave to build the kindergartens that are needed to get those children into the nursery. I'm not going to use the word poverty trap, but the truth can't be far away. What these families are offering today is $3,300 less a month. In what other area would SV have been involved? So the council warns the municipalities, that building kindergartens is a simple way away from commitment. Then I have to ask: what is the government doing for the one-year-olds who have not been entitled to kindergarten, where you increase the cash support because they have not been entitled to kindergarten? I'm just asking. Otherwise, I would just like to say that Gunn Karin Gjul's contribution to freedom of choice and equality was a very interesting reflection. I agree that this is good policy, as it was referred to from the 1970s. The interesting thing about Gjul's posts was that it stopped there, we've gone further and seen that equality for modern women of 2011 is something more.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3151	I record that at least there is not much room to appear theatrical from this pulpit – you have to be careful about how to put your voice, because it can easily be misunderstood. I don't know if it's that it's getting closer to Christmas, that the government parties are therefore tired, and that you're not quite hanging out in the hour, but I have to say that it's a bit of an experience to sit in the hall and record the discord between the government parties by day, not only in the newspaper, but also from the pulpit. For this is probably a matter that shows that the government does not agree with itself. The representative Gjul goes to the pulpit and says that what I brought up in my post was wrong, that equality and good family policy are contradictory, that this is not related. Then the representative Nilsson Ramsøy went up and acknowledged that what was said in the post from the right, because all the quotes from the newspaper article were correct. What is more alarming is that the head of the family committee in Stortinget claims – at least between lines – that families receiving cash support are not equal. The representative Gjul claims that like-minded families are more happy, there is less use of violence, but in the case of families receiving cash support, however, research says something quite different. It was quite eye-catching. But now leave it. I agree with what Gjul says at the end of his post, namely that we must give mother and father the opportunity to be at home with the child for the first year of the child's life, and we must give both mother and father the opportunity to be at work. That is entirely in agreement with the Right. The difference between the Labour Party and the Right is that the Labour Party will regulate in detail and decide how Mom and Dad should be at home in the first year – how many weeks mother and father should be at home. The working party will determine when the child is going to be in kindergarten and then the parents will not be able to choose other care solutions. That's the big difference, and that's also the big difference in the whole family policy – that we once again see that at least the Workers' Party depends on SV and puts gender equality in front of most others. But fortunately, we still have the Center Party, which calls for families themselves to be allowed to decide how to organize everyday life. We hope the Center Party still stands for it in the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3162	It's good the Center Party gets a lot of expressions of love, they've already got mine. I would like to mention, when the representative of Hofstad Helleland goes down from the pulpit, that the Right Women's Forum, known to me, also agrees quite well with the proposal put forward by the government today. It's a cross of thought when we see some of the characteristics coming. In that case, they must also apply to the Right Women's Forum. The reason why I asked for the floor – I should not withdraw the debate – is that I am still a little surprised at the rhetoric of the representative of Hope on the issue of integration. As Minister for Integration, which I have usually not enjoyed discussing with this committee, I have been very concerned that we should have a change of words in Norway about the diverse multicultural Norway, which is not stigmatizing. What is stigmatizing is to base the debate on myths, on generalizations. It's not stigmatizing to say things that are true. On the contrary, being nuanced, raising real problems, is also absolutely necessary to combat stigmatisation. The only thing we have said in this debate is that it is a challenge that families with a minority background are overrepresented among cash beneficiaries, while being overrepresented among families where there is a lot of child poverty. We know that being a single-income family is often a cause of child poverty, and we know that getting kids into kindergarten can be an important prerequisite for not being adults too. The figures from Nav from February this year show that of the beneficiaries, the total was 35,5 pst. of foreign origin. We have seen that the decline in the use of cash support over time has been stronger in the population overall than in non-Western immigrant families. In Oslo, where we know that we have the biggest challenges of just fighting poverty, and the lack of access to work for families with immigrant backgrounds, had 72.1 pst. of those receiving cash support, originating in a country other than Norway. Among the two-year-olds who received cash support in Oslo, this concerned 83 p.m. To point that out and to say that it is actually an important part of the discussion is not stigmatisation, it is a necessary debate on how to ensure that the Nordics with a migrant background are not sidelined in terms of working life, kindergarten and education.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3175	The representative of Øyvind Håbreek has spoken twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3178	I just want to make a final comment that I fully agree with the basics of the Council of State on how we discuss challenges in integration policy, what is stigmatizing, and what is not stigmatizing. But in the extension of that, I think -- let me say it like this at the end of a long day, since the debate goes to the end -- that it's problematic to use the figures just the way the Council of State did. It is pointed out that people with a migrant background are overrepresented among recipients of cash support, and that they are overrepresented among families with poor finances. What are the conclusions of this? The danger is that the conclusion is drawn that if you are an immigrant and receive cash support, you are by definition poorly integrated and have integration challenges. What I want to do up to is that it's a little bit unfurnished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3183	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 1527]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3199	The President takes the view that the Committee has asked for the debate to be drawn up and that a free debate should be held. But the president can't record anyone drawing. If that is true, no one has asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[See page 1527]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3207	The size goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3215	All in all, eleven proposals have been put forward in the course of the debate. It's the proposals No 1–6, by Siri A. Meling on behalf of the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 7 and 8, by Siri A. Meling, on behalf of the Group of the European Progressive Democrats and the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (Doc. 9 and 10, by Siri A. Meling on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, proposal No. 11, from Oskar J. Grimstad on behalf of the Progress Party First, there will be a vote on proposal No. 11 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for proposals to set up an Energy and Petroleum Research Fund of 10 billion. krona, where the yield is used for technological research to improve the degree of extraction, the economy and the safety of the continental shelf, as well as other relevant energy research projects.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3245	There will then be a vote on the proposal No. 9 and 10, from the Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for a Government Communication on Outdoor Policy.’ Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘Freedom is restored as an area of performance within the Ministry of the Environment’s budget.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3269	The proposals are then put to the vote. 7 and 8, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide a comprehensive report which assesses the natural and socio-economic impact of the forest protection processes carried out and planned.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government asks the Government to promote a case concerning the financial responsibility of the State for archaeological excavations where this is required on private property.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e3291	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1–6, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asked to provide an overview of the need for flood and racial protection, as well as the associated strategy and state escalation plan for meeting the situation’.» Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to review the rules for compensation for flooding, racial and natural damage to the municipalities with a view to increasing the financial responsibility of the State when municipalities are disproportionately hard hit.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: «The government is asking the government to promote incentives for energy saving in households and businesses. Three alternative schemes were examined in the case; tax deductions and white certificates and an extended aid scheme.’ [[ROT deduction]] Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The government requests the delay in presenting the 2013 State budget to provide an assessment of one in the award criteria for the size of the annual State code of the National Park Centre should also include the total level of investment at each of the centres.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to draw up an action plan to ensure the stepping up of efforts to clean up pollution in fjords, watercourses and ports.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The government is asked to submit a case to the Stortinget on wreckage policy.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e4989	The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e7157	The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e7316	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e7326	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e7861	It is first contested by § 80(a), § 81, first paragraph, (b) and § 83, fourth paragraph. The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against the setting of these paragraphs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e7876	Other paragraphs I and II shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e7886	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e7896	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e7904	In the course of the debate, a total of 20 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 2, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing proposals No. 3-16, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 17, by Torbjørn Røe Isaksen on behalf of the Right-wing proposal No. 18 and 19, from Kjell Ingolf Roppstad on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 20, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left This proposal has been distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for solidarity reform, leading to increased benefits for those who are permanently out of work and who are 100 % disabled, with a corresponding reduction in benefits for short-term sick leave. The reform shall be implemented from 1 January 2015.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e7942	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 19, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e7976	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 18, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals for a scheme whereby disabled people under 40 years of age receive a closer follow-up from Nav through, for example, an annual follow-up meeting.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e7991	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 17 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to propose a new system of child allowances for both redundancy and disability benefits, with a view to a system that is more effective in ensuring that work is paid.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e8008	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3-11, 15 and 16 from the Party of Advancement. Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the necessary legislative proposals to ensure that no less than 40 years are offered permanent disability unless it is clear that they will never be able to participate in the labour market.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the promotion of the necessary legislative proposals by ensuring a minimum performance equivalent to 3,30 G, irrespective of civil status, with the benefit of ‘young disabled’.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to promote the necessary legislative proposals in which, with the benefit of ‘young disabled’, an additional generation equal to 4.8 G is ensured, after the increase in tax has been taken into account.’ Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size calls on the government to promote the necessary legislative changes so that total disability benefits, including child allowances, can reach a maximum of 80 pst. of previous income.’» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary legislative changes so that actual social security time is taken into account when moving permanently out of Norway.’ Proposal No. 8 sounds: «The government is asked to promote the necessary legislative changes in order to take into account actual social security time in calculating the minimum benefit for refugees.» Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary legislative changes in order to set the threshold of income at 0,75 G’. Proposal No. 10 sounds: «The government is asked to promote the necessary legislative changes so that some do not receive higher income compared to what they had previously had, without reconsidering the degree of disability, and to eliminate the effect of the 80 % limit.» Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘The government is asked to amend the calculation rules in such a way that the three best of the last 10 years before disability occurred form the basis for calculating new non-employment benefits.’ Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary legislative changes that will eliminate the age adjustment for old-age pensions.’ Proposal No. 16 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to cooperate with the Norwegian Medical Association to develop new ways of assessing the need for disability pension and to return to the Stortinget on its own initiative in good time before the start of the new disability pension.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e8074	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13 from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 12 sounds: «The government is asked to come back with an assessment of the current curtailment rules for those with high income.» Proposal No. 13 sounds: ‘The government is asked to promote the necessary legislative changes to ensure that the following grading of the threshold for entry into the defrosting system is maintained: 20 – 30 – 40 – 50 – 60, 80 and 100 per cent permanently reduced working capacity.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e8098	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to present its own action plan in the context of the 2013 State Budget to ensure that young people receive coherent support and patient efforts to limit new cases involving young people under 40 years of age on permanent disability.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e8115	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide an overall review of the housing aid scheme in good time before the entry into force of new disability benefits.’ The left has announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e9078	Alternatively, the second paragraph of § 12-8 of the adjustment and proposal No. 14 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘the second paragraphs of 12 to 8 shall be replaced by the following: Income before disability shall not be less than 3,5 times the basic amount. For members who fulfil the conditions for entitlement to the minimum benefit as a young person, the pre-employment income shall not be lower than 4,5 times the basic amount.» The left has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e9098	It is voted over the section 19-9 a. The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e9110	The remaining paragraphs of Chapter 12 shall be wrestled. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e9124	Other paragraphs I and II shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e9134	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e9144	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e9152	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The State budget for 2011 shall be amended as follows: Chapter.PostObjectivesCrones621Contributions to social services and social inclusion70Friendly work, may be carried over, increased by 15 000 000 from NOK 50 160 000 to NOK 65 160 000’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e11145	The party of progress, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e11158	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e11168	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e11210	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e11220	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a subsequent meeting of the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-12.ana.ud2494e11391	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
