ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e26	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e29	On behalf of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad, Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Rigmor Andersen Eide and myself, I am pleased to make a proposal for a representative to introduce a bully in all the counties of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e34	The representative, Mr Träldal, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e37	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, Per Roar Bredvold, Per-Willy Amundsen, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and myself, I would like to put forward a proposal for an independent review committee to review support and grant schemes and compensation schemes for the reindeer industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e42	The representative, Mazyar Keshvari, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e45	I wish, on behalf of the representatives of Morten Höglund, Karin S. Woldseth, Kari Storstrand and myself, to present a proposal for a representative to tighten up the sanctions regime against Iran.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e50	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that case No. 3, Unit, to be dealt with before case No. 1st@item: inlistbox – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e148	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, which is obvious to more than the President, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced ones, want to ask themselves the main questions – those who have stood up do not seem to have the purpose. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e157	The question arises – there are not so many to choose from – the Prime Minister. I would like to open up a little praise to the Prime Minister and the Labour Party, who, despite a violent pressure from the press, the media, partners in the government and many organisations, insist that there should be equality between the law and that illegal immigrants should be sent out of Norway. Having said that, I will not pay much attention to the one matter that has received so much attention, but be a little general and think a little ahead. The last week’s debate has revealed the outcome of Norwegian immigration policy in the last 10–15 years. It has also revealed major shortcomings and large gaps in the 2008 Foreign Affairs Act. We see that under false ID or missing ID you can take high-level education, access to social security, access to public services, see extensive undeclared work and organised crime, and you record a large-scale counter-work by many groups in Norwegian society on public Norwegian immigration policy. There is virtually no control over in and out of our asylum recipients, not at all over what is called decentralised asylum recipients, where asylum seekers with a missing ID or false ID live in society in general. We have a situation that has arisen in the last two days, where hundreds of children disappear from institutions, and no one knows where they have gone. This testifies to the fact that we have an asylum and integration policy which, unfortunately, is out of control. My question to the Prime Minister is: What does the government do in the future to close these gaps and get a decent and proper asylum and immigration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e168	I agree with the representative Sandberg that the discussion we have had in the last few days gives us the opportunity to discuss a little general and a bit of Norwegian asylum and immigration policy – and I think that is an important and good debate, because it is a major and important social issue. The government's asylum policy is based on two basic principles. One is that people who have been persecuted should receive asylum and stay in the country. The second is that everyone should have an individual assessment. We are concerned about that, because if you need protection or there are strong humanitarian reasons to be here, you should be allowed to be here. The case in question, which has been very advanced, has just been subject to extensive individual assessment — both in 2003, twice in the UDI, in 2004, twice in the Foreign Affairs Department, and again now, in 2010 and 2011. In addition, the case has been tried by a Norwegian court, the district court. So individual assessment and assessment of protection needs and the existence of strong humanitarian reasons are crucial. If you meet those requirements, you're going to get to be. But if you don't meet those requirements, you can't expect to stay, and then you have to get out. And the best thing is if people leave voluntarily, but we also know that some people have to be forced to return. That government is very concerned about controlling asylum policy is that we succeed in the return policy. That's why we've stepped up the number of returns: 4,600 forced returns last year. Each of the people who were forced to return from Norway is a human being, is a dramatic story, and I am absolutely sure that if we had met that human being, it would have come to mind that the human being is being sent out of Norway. But there's a broad majority in Stortinget that stands behind a policy where we have to say no to someone in order to be able to say yes to others and take care of them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e177	I just have to thank you for the answer, and I have to say that I again agree with the Prime Minister. I do not think there is a country where the legal security of refugees and asylum seekers is as well maintained as in Norway. Perhaps it is, paradoxically, one of the challenges we have when we get the type of long trial period, and that people stay from five to eleven years in Norwegian reception. Despite the fact that the government has sent out several illegal immigrants, an increasing number of illegal immigrants live in Norway. I note that the Prime Minister does not express what one wants to do in the future, so I would at least specifically ask the Prime Minister for one action. In the past, the Department of Foreign Affairs of the police had a separate group that researched and picked up illegal immigrants. This group is closed. Is it perhaps right now, when it is claimed that there are perhaps 18 000 illegal immigrants in Norway, to restore this group?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e184	It's at least a dilemma: we want to give everyone who comes here, legal certainty and individual treatment. It is a comprehensive process, in which it is often difficult to find out, for example: basic documents as a birth certificate – who are people? That's why it takes a lot of time. Then there is appeal – twice treatment in the UDI, in the Foreign Affairs Department and often in a Norwegian law. It'll take time. At the same time, it is frustrating that people are here for a long time when they end up going out anyway, and through that treatment process people are often linked to the country, to the kingdom. It is particularly serious that once a final decision has been taken in a Norwegian court, you still do not choose to leave and stay in the country. That is why the laws have now been designed so that the time you are in the country is not counted in assessing whether you have a special connection to the kingdom, that is, a special connection to the kingdom, because you can't reward people being here illegally. With regard to the specific foreign police unit, I don't know exactly what it is about, but what I know is that this government has strongly strengthened the aliens unit, or the police, and increased the transports, just to succeed in our asylum policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e191	There will be follow-up questions – first Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e194	The number of illegal immigrants in Norway has increased, but the SSB has said that there can actually be as many as 32,000 illegal immigrants in Norway. It's a problem. Whatever you do with the situation here and now, we have a lag of people who have to get out of the country. What seems obvious is that the government – at least as long as you depend on the Socialist Left – has no solution to that problem. For every year that goes, it becomes more and more necessary to clean this up, and I don't see that the government is going to be able to do it without actually applying for cover from other parties in the Stortinget. That is why, on behalf of the Progress Party, I would like to offer the Prime Minister the opportunity to sit down with the Advance Party and negotiate, so that we can actually find good solutions, by the majority in the Grand Duchy, to resolve the problem we have with illegal immigrants. [[The President clubs.]] Will the Prime Minister consider such a compromise with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e199	The President recalls that follow-up questions must be taken within the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e202	We have made significant changes in Norwegian foreign policy. We have also implemented some restraints in asylum policy, with a strong desire to succeed in caring for those who have the right to stay in the country but return those who do not have the right to stay in the country. We have announced our own child growth message in transit, which is an opportunity for the Stortinget to re-examine that part of foreign policy. And it's always a challenge for us to be consistent, to be specific, but at the same time to care for human interests, to be right and in place with regard to the institution of asylum, and to provide protection to those who need it. Illegal residence is a big problem. There is no one who has certain figures on it, because it is precisely because people are illegal here, and can also travel around the Schengen area without it being possible to have full control over it. That's why we've stepped up sharply the number of returns and doubled them in a few years. The advantage of increasing the number of forced returns is that that also increases the number of voluntary returns, and both are good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e211	Two further follow-up questions will be raised – first Michael Tetzschner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e215	I noticed that the Prime Minister used the expression that someone has to go out to make others. I would like to point out that this is not a final size. Those who are going out are going out as a result of our position on the basis to be in Norway, whether they come as immigrants or refugees or as an asylum seeker. If you were to take the prime minister seriously, then Maria Amelie would have to go out to make room for the drug pushers along the Akersleven who would then obviously be allowed to stay. Such an allowance does not exist. My question to the Prime Minister is whether the Prime Minister has not gone a bit far in defending intransigent decisions in the UN. For it is that there must be a certain discretionary room for the administration, but he has to the degrees set behind a decision without having seen the clearly unreasonable and inhumane in that decision. Or, as the Prime Minister is quoted in the Evening Post, someone has to set up the system. I'm asking whether the Prime Minister should not put up with the individual rather than the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e222	We stand up for the individual. That is why we need to have a fair system, so we need to have an individual procedure, and that is why we have to assume that everyone who comes here is individuals who have to be judged as the individuals they are – comprehensive individual treatment. However, once a decision has been taken for several rounds in the UDI, in the UN and then in Norwegian law, that decision must be implemented for all. Then it has to be equal to the law. It is obvious that we should have out those people who, in addition to having illegal residence, commit criminal acts. The number of sentence fields returned by force has increased strongly – 700 last year. We're going to send out those who commit criminal acts, as well as sending out those who are here with illegal residence. Well, I think that Erna Solberg, when she was a state councillor, was very clear that she did not want to go into individual matters. I also do not want to try out individual items. The size has deprived me of the right to do so too, because the Stortinget has been very clear that we have a legal system, and we have a foreign subject who assesses the individual matters. They are implementing the policy we have adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e231	Geir Jørgen Bekkevold – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e234	Perhaps the Prime Minister will get a slightly different angle, a very concrete case relating to the paperless immigrants, who are going on with health care. On today's news, we were told that paperless immigrants still do not receive the health care they need, and this despite the fact that the Minister of Health opened up that this was a scheme that was to be put in place. Paperless immigrants would also receive health care. In contrast to what the Progress Party proposed, that of criminalising the provision of health care, the government will open up to it. But today we have heard that this is not yet in place. What will the Prime Minister do to ensure that paperless immigrants also receive the absolutely necessary health care they need?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e241	First, just a little reflection around the term ‘paperless’. These are people who have illegal residence in Norway. There has been extensive treatment of them. There are large piles of paper in the UDI, in the UNE and also in themselves, so I believe that the term ‘paperless’ is a little unpresist. It is about people who are here on illegal residence and who do not have the right to stay based on the laws adopted by a broad majority. And then it's up to the police to implement – follow up – the laws of the Stortinget have been passed. You should not have illegal residence. Then you're going out. A prescription has been sent to the hearing to provide an offer of health care to those who have an illegal stay. There is some offer already today, but it is about strengthening it. But the whole point is that once you've been denied, you're going out. As far as we have an overview of it, only one country, Cuba, does not accept people who want to return voluntarily.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e248	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e251	Every week people die on Norwegian roads. The reasons are many. It's speed, it's rush, it's road standard, traffic, race, inattentiveness, or just randomness. Many drivers lay out on the road with gnawing upset in their stomachs. There are many factors that the driver himself cannot control. Lower speed limits and more speed control will not help you when you suddenly encounter an unnoticeable driver coming at you in your own lane. Attitude campaigns will not be able to save you from the consequences of having tossed on the car on the day you drive on a road with poor road standards and without auto protection, or meet a car train with a sling on the trailer. The dramatic meeting accidents take life on the fraction of a second. Perhaps the driver of one car is to be skeptical. It has little to say to those sitting in the other car. It's in such a situation that midwayers save lives. Someone is pointing the index finger at the drivers themselves, but I find it difficult to point the index finger at those who are hit by a car that gets into the wrong lane. As responsible politicians, we have to go in ourselves and ask: what better can we do? Therefore, last week, the Right Party invited all the parties to a joint meeting for road safety by joining in on a proposal to get a quick case for the Stortinget on a much higher pace in the construction of, among other things. middle parts. With great disappointment, I have to say that the representatives of the Workers' Party and the other government parties rejected this invitation. My question to the Prime Minister is therefore whether there was anything wrong with the form of the proposal. On the right-hand side, we would like to get back to the proposal in a different form, if it can be made more edible for the Workers' Party. The most important thing for the Right is that we advance the construction of middle parts on Norwegian roads, so that we can secure our roads and avoid the loss of so many lives in meeting accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e260	I believe that the work to reduce traffic accidents on Norwegian roads is one of the most important tasks we face. In no other area of society, we had accepted that hundreds of people will die every year, in addition to hard damage. Every life lost on Norwegian roads is one life too much. That is why we must constantly reach out to improve road safety on Norwegian roads, and there are, of course, many measures that must work together to succeed in reducing the number of accidents. Last year, 210 people lost their lives on Norwegian roads – there are 210 people too many. But at the same time we have to take inspiration in the following: that's the lowest number since 1955. During the same period, traffic has increased sharply, with a dramatic reduction in the number of accidents on Norwegian roads relative to traffic volume. The lowest number of fatalities since 1955 in a period when traffic has increased sharply is an expression that, after all, road safety has improved, although there is no consolation for those who continue to experience accidents, lose their closest or suffer serious damage to Norwegian roads. There are certainly many reasons why the number of road accidents is falling, and it is bound to fluctuate slightly in the years to come, but the trend is downward. On the one hand, there are better roads, and on the other hand, there is better traffic monitoring. But we know that 40 pst. traffic accidents are associated with high speed, and therefore it is also about accountability and traffic monitoring, to ensure that we bring down the number of accidents further. We have stepped up heavily the appropriations for road safety, stepped up the appropriations for road and transport, increased the appropriations for middle-parties and will follow it up in the national transport plan, and we will be happy to discuss at each budgetary procedure how we can improve road safety. We will also present a new national transport plan, and we will then have a new opportunity to discuss long-term work to improve road safety on Norwegian roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e271	As usual, we're getting this monetization from the government parties. I want to remind the Prime Minister that there are 500 million. kr according to the plan you have made. From the right-hand side, we've added 1.4 billion. kr more on the table than the government in the last two years. No, I'm disappointed! I had long believed that the Prime Minister would cut through and receive such an outstretched hand from the Right, for the good purpose of saving more from the terrible meeting death on the roads. In our opinion, we cannot sit and watch people die or get hurt hard in traffic, when it is possible to do more about what we can actually do about, namely build middle parts. I am surprised and ask the Prime Minister once again: Is it possible that we can sit down with the government to agree that an obliging action plan is to be established to build middle parts on Norwegian roads, to save more Norwegian lives?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e280	As I said, we are ready to discuss to reach a broad consensus on transport policy and road safety on many occasions. We have budgets every year, where we have extensive discussion about appropriations for road safety measures and the opportunity to arrive at agreed positions, and we are presenting a national transport plan, where we can do the same. So, of course, we are not opposed to discussing to reach a broad consensus on transport and road safety measures. But short on figures: this government was elected in 2005, when we were in opposition, on a transport plane every year was 2 billion. kr above what the previous government provided. Then the previous government said that it was a completely unrealistic over-representation. We did it and even added a little bit to the two billion each year. Now we've put forward a new transport plan, which is going to be 10 billion. NOK over it again, and we're in the full path of fulfilling it. We've never said to go up 10 billion. kr immediately, but we're on a stepping up that will make us reach that goal. Then you want to weigh, you have to vote on the red-green!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e287	There will be three follow-up questions – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e291	The last thing I don't think impress anyone. I don't think the crutch to the Prime Minister impresses anyone either. Most people have experienced sitting with their hearts in their throats along Norwegian roads and have breathed easily when you have come home yourself, or when some of your loved ones have come home safely. That's what this case is about. When the Right says that we want to sit down with the other parties on the Stortinget to discuss an obligating action plan, it is too obvious that there is something more important than anything else. It happens that the Prime Minister invites the opposition to discuss matters, whether they be pensions or disability, to show that it is important. We believe that road safety is more important than most. I note that the Prime Minister refers to budgetary procedures. Well, we have experience in the budgetary processes in Stortinget. Then the government parties do what they want. National transport plan is far ahead. I therefore repeat the question: Is the Prime Minister willing to sit down now to discuss a binding action plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e300	Firstly, we have a binding action plan. We have a national transport plan, and for this government it is a binding document. The previous government presented a transport plan which it did not follow up. There was a lot of beautiful about bets on different measures, but the money did not come. The follow-up to the national transport plan in the previous government period — under the Bondevik government — did not stop it. We have presented two national transport plans, with a significant focus on road safety. We follow it up, so for us, it's a binding document. So we're going to put forward a new national transport plan. Then, of course, we will open up new discussions about further escalation, because of course we are not in target. 210 killed on Norwegian roads is, as I say, 210 too much, but that's the lowest number since 1955, and although it's definitely going to swing up and down in the years to come, we've done something about the fact that the trend is now falling. In particular, in relation to traffic growth, the likelihood of death on Norwegian roads is significantly reduced. We're not satisfied, it has to be done more, but it's now such that you can drive... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e309	Bård Hoksrud – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e312	The Prime Minister says that one of the most important tasks we face is road safety. Oil money flows at a rate far higher than that foreseen in the 2011 State budget. When we know that the Prime Minister always boasts of everything you do, it's okay to have built a 17.3 km motorway in the year over the last six years, which the government has run. In Sweden they build almost 200 km every year. There are people who are really betting on road safety. They're the world's best at road safety. Is the Prime Minister proud that our neighbouring country is far ahead of us when we have both the opportunities and the resources, if there is political will to do so? And why won't the Prime Minister accept the invitation to invest in road safety? I want to say at the end that one of the measures that does not cost much money, but that is important, is to use a seat belt. I encourage both the Prime Minister and everyone else to do that when you're in traffic and driving.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e319	You always have to wear a seat belt. As far as road safety is concerned, we do. But when you're betting on something, it doesn't mean that we're in the goal, or that we're satisfied. When we point to an escalation in the transport plan that we have adopted, it's because we're going to use more in the years to come. And there'll be more. I agree to discuss this in order to reach an agreement on these measures, both in the budgets and in the national transport plans. I would also like to stress that there has also been a sharp increase in four-field motorways in Norway. Soon we will open towards Hamar, and then you can drive from Mjösa/Hamar to Svinesund. You can go through the entire Westfold soon, and we're building down in Telemark, so in South Norway there'll be a pretty large network of four-field highways. We also build elsewhere in the country, so there has been a sharp increase in motorway investment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e328	Knut Arild Hareide – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e331	The previous government put forward a national transport plan which it did not follow up, said the Prime Minister. There are two errors in the same sentence. The Bondevik government took over in 2001, and it was actually the government of Stoltenberg that put forward a national transport plan in spring 2001. The Bondevik government followed up was the Sem declaration, and I do not need to remind the Prime Minister that it was followed up to the point and the point. I agree with the Prime Minister when he says that road safety is the number one job. But then it's a paradox to me that the government has organized the road sector oversight in a completely different way than in the other sectors. Before aviation, we have Avinor, but we have air traffic control. Before the railway, we have the Railway Agency, but we also have a railway supervision. In the road sector, however, we have a roadside supervision that is subject to the Directorate of Roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e338	It is true that there was an agreement on the national transport plan in force for the period 2001–2005. So the government of Bondevik stood behind and wanted to implement it, but it was not followed up. You didn't fund it. Then came a new national transport plan – which you thought was irresponsible – for the period 2005-2009. We overfilled it. So we put forward another national transport plan for the next period, and we're going to follow it up. So the difference is that this government has followed up the national transport plans. The previous government didn't. We are concerned with good supervision, but we are not least concerned with strengthening road safety measures. This is why we are stepping up both traffic monitoring and route-based speedometers, so that we can get even better measures to prevent people driving too fast on Norwegian roads — perhaps the main cause, or at least one major cause, of traffic death on Norwegian roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e345	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e348	I'm going back to immigration policy, because the expulsion of Maria Amelie has in recent days created a strong commitment both politically and publicly in this country. The police have been given their work form characterised by the court as a lack of musicality and a sense of fingertips. Many might say that it is a characteristic that can to some extent also take care of the government's and the Prime Minister's handling of the matter. I'll leave it. The Prime Minister has made himself a strong spokesman for, even here in the United Kingdom today, that immigration policy should be strict but fair. I think some reason why we get this kind of heated discussion about individual matters is that many people perceive that immigration policy is strict, but that it is not fair. The Prime Minister has made it a big point to be principled and stand up for the legislation. It is in many ways an important role for regulators. But there's reason to remember that there's a difference between principle and principle etiquette, and that part of the responsibility that you have for the regulation is also to take responsibility when the legislation meets reality, and the results are different from what you'd have thought. Interprets the code correctly? Does it match correctly? Recently, quite fundamental criticisms have been raised against the way our foreign administration practices the policy-specific legislation – when children have to answer for parental sins, when families split, and UNE says that it is enough with father, you don't need mother, when converts are sent home with notice that only the tens of their faith, they can well be sent to a country that does not accept that they are converted, and last but not least as regards practices on paperless. I would like to know what the Prime Minister intends to do in the extension of the specific matters that we have now discussed, in terms of legislative changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e361	We have already announced – long before this specific case came up – a separate big message about children on the run. There we will come back to adjustments and changes in the legislation, but it will cover everyone. What we're concerned about, is that what we do for one, we also have to be able to do for others in the same situation. There are thousands of different human creatures, there are individuals, and everyone has to be seen and treated as the individuals they are. Therefore, we need to have the strict, tidy, proper and individual treatment of them. But what we're concerned about is that when a decision is made, it has to be respected by everyone. Then it has to be equal to the law. There is no contradiction between being concerned with individuals, and at the same time being concerned that there should be equality of law, that people should be treated fairly. There are a lot of individual ships, and I cannot comment on the specific examples to which the representative Højbråtten refers. But it's just because there's so many single companies that we have a system where you normally get twice the treatment in the Foreign Directorate. Then there's a lot of people who go to Foreign Affairs and get one or two treatments there, and then there's a lot of people who try it again at a Norwegian court. When that process is over, when a Norwegian law has taken a decision, that decision has to be respected. What the police are doing is enforcing the laws adopted by this magnificence, and there has been a broad consensus on the restrictions we have imposed. When we return 4,600 people, there are over 4,000 fates — people who believe they have had a better life in Norway than they will in the country we send them back to. But it is the Stortinge that adopts the laws, because we believe that we need a regulation on immigration and who is allowed to come to Norway. What the Biggest thing has done – which I think is very interesting – is that you have opened up more labour immigration. Among other things, this is the case. made on the proposal of this government, but then we have tightened up on asylum. It is very important to separate the two things, and I am also concerned about communicating in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e373	Let me come back to what was my question, because my question was not whether the Prime Minister would intervene and deal with individual matters contrary to what the Stortinget has decided. The system is such that it is left to the administration. My question was whether, in the light of the experience with the kind of things I mentioned – not concrete matters, but I can give concrete examples if necessary – the government in its discussions has come to the conclusion that it will propose to change interpretation and practice, or change the legislation, in such cases. That was the question. Otherwise I have to add that I have with some wonder followed today's Question Time. The Prime Minister was ashamed at the beginning of this questioning process by the Progress Party for his firmness of principle, and he did not seem to be ashamed of it. He has received an open invitation from the Progress Party to a settlement on immigration policy. [[President clubs]] I did not register that he rejected it. Are we, in fact, in the face of a new change of direction in the direction of immigration policy on the part of the government?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e380	The President allows you to add anything, only that happens within speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e383	I will never stop wondering what people interpret into my body language. They know how I feel, what I mean and how I feel. I have it excellent, and I'm busy making political arguments. We are always open to adjust the policy. Clearly, we learn things and see things. The world is changing, and then we're adjusting the rules. We have adjusted asylum rules, we have adjusted labour immigration rules and we have opened up significantly more labour immigration in Norway. We have notified a big message, and then you often come up with suggestions – exactly which one we get back to. But we have announced our own big message about children on the run. So there will be new proposals for policy adjustments and changes. But I want to be sure that that policy will continue to be based on the basic principle that it is those who are persecuted – or there are strong human interests – who will be allowed to be here, and that those who do not meet the requirements after careful processing individually must exit. The best thing is if they return voluntarily, but if they don't, they have to expect to be forced to return. There's a similarity to the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e392	There will be three follow-up questions – first Geir Jørgen Bekkewold.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e395	The Christian People's Party, together with the SV and the Left, launched an open consultation on the paperless and their situation in Norway. It was arranged at the end of November last year. Ingrid Wirum, who is the head of the Foreign Office of the Police, also took part in this hearing. She said that after the government tightened up in 2008, the proportion of rejected applications for asylum seekers that are difficult or impossible to return has increased to 50 pst. There are three reasons why the paperless are not returned: it is impossible to return them because of security, the home country requires voluntary return, or the home country refuses to accept them. These conditions are of course UNKNOWN but choose to define them as return technical conditions and continue to reject them. So we know that there is a large group of people in Norway who cannot be returned, either by coercion or by voluntary means. I wonder how long will the government sit and watch this group of people just keep growing?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e402	First, until this term «paperless»: it is people who have unlawfully resided after assessing their application for residence in the light of laws adopted by the Stortinget and which the police of course enforce. It's people with illegal residence. Of course, you can change the laws, but there is also a broad majority on the Grand Council that has adopted them, and we have to respect that they are enforced. That was point one. Point two: Of course, there are different reasons why it's hard to return different people, again we're talking about thousands of different individual ships. But the main reason why it's hard to return people is that they don't return voluntarily. If they return voluntarily, tell who they are, they will be accepted in almost every country. As far as I understand, only Cuba does not accept voluntary return. The problem is that those who do not want to return voluntarily after a clear refusal, a final judgment or a decision in Norway that they do not have the right to stay. Then the problem is that they do not cooperate, that they refuse to return, that they do not provide the right identity — that kind of problem. That is why we are retiring to help increase voluntary return.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e409	Per-Willy Amundsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e412	I record that the representative Højbrätten in the Christian People's Party is ashamed of the Progress Party, and does what he can to run away from the responsibility that he was actually involved in under the Bondevik government, and which is actually much of the reason for many of the illegal immigrants who are on Norwegian soil. But this illustrates a problem, namely that most of the parties on the Stortinget do not have the will and the ability to put in place all the necessary measures to clean up what I'm saying, that maybe almost 32,000 illegal immigrants are on Norwegian soil. That is why I would like to extend a hand to the Labour Party and say that we should like to sit down, we would like to discuss measures and compromises in order to find good solutions to clean up this problem, because this is starting to get so large that it is of national importance to do something about it. Does the Prime Minister see the need for new measures in this area in order to obtain illegal immigrants?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e421	I think it's the result of a majority rule that the opposition invites conciliation in all areas, because that's the way you can have some influence. I see that in and out of my mind. I answer every time that well, well, brought documents to Stortinget, and then we will discuss whether there is any basis for agreement on more or less of those matters. But we're going to bring our documents. We've notified a big message about children on the run, and we also come up with budget proposals and other things that will be dealt with in the Stortinget, and then we'll see if there's any basis for consensus, whether it's road safety, refugee children or other areas. It is essential that action is taken, and there has been a sharp increase in the return of those who have not legally resided in this country. This has also led to an increase in voluntary return. Among other things, we have increased the number of employees in the Police Foreign Unit, we've started chartering, and we've done other things to take care of those who are entitled to stay. If we are to succeed in the integration policy, we must therefore return those who do not have the right to stay. If we want to do something different, we need to change the rules – not intervene in individual cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e428	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e431	In the Marie Amelie case, the government itself has painted itself into a corner. Large resources are now to be used to transport her out, while the government openly signals that she is welcome back as a jobseeker. The Prime Minister says that the rules adopted must also be followed up. But we also know that judgement is exercised on how the rules are practised. The right agrees that it shall not be instructable in individual cases. But the Right has for a long time been calling for the Government to be able to instruct the Foreign Minister on fundamental issues concerning the elements to be taken into account. The government could have chosen to do so, and then this matter could have been resolved. Will the Prime Minister now make it possible for the government to instruct UN on fundamental issues so that policy can also be influenced?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e439	It's a little bit unclear what the Right really means. But I think what the Right believes is that they support that proposal from the Malta Committee to also give the opportunity to give instruction to the UN in principle matters relating to how to focus on strong human concerns. Well, it's a proposal that's there and it's going to be evaluated. But it is not a proposal that had in any significant way changed this matter, and it has also been said by Trond Helleland in a radio debate programme. Either way, you have to enforce and practice the rules that we have. And it's not like general instructions on the evaluation of humanitarian grounds change this specific case. What we've been saying, and what I'm standing by, and as I've been saying since day one, is that the Stortinge, among other things. on a proposal from this government as late as in a wholesale communication two years ago, increased access to labour immigration. There's a quota of 5,000, and we want labour immigration of qualified people. But this is it very important, as Stortinget said, to separate from the asylum institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e446	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e449	In Soria Moria I it was said that the government should conduct a humane, solidarity and legally secure refugee and immigration policy. Then ‘human’ and ‘judicial’ were used in the rhetoric as ‘string’ and in other government statements as ‘consistent’. For the government has tightened in and tightened in and tightened in again. Now it is such that so many restrictions have been made. You're so hard on those who aren't returnable. There are so many areas where there is so much resistance that there has now been political outreach in Europe. It is such that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg is now on the right-hand side of Berlusconi and Sarkozy, who have made arrangements for this group. This is a wild strategy. This is a prime minister who says that it is more important to set up the law than to stand up for individuals. This is a prime minister who has stepped into immigration policy so much that Norway is on the outside of Europe. This is wild. This is the wish. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he is in company with Berlusconi and Sarkozy in immigration and refugee policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e454	The representative is quite right that the policy we are pursuing is a misguided policy. And if we didn't want it, we should have changed it. We must also face the consequences of the policy. An essential component of that policy is that we should have individual treatment of each one. It is thorough, it is comprehensive and often takes a long time, and it is extensive appeals. But once the individual treatment of each one is completed, we have to respect the result, because if not, there will be no justice, there will be no cleanness, and there will be a randomness that no one is earned with. There has been my message in this debate all along, and I like to stand up for such a policy, which I therefore see as fair, as humane, but also as consistent. What the government has done is, as I say, to open up further access to labour immigration, but has tightened up on some points regarding asylum. We did so, among other things. because we saw that there was a sharp increase in the number of arrivals of asylum seekers who did not need protection and who did not meet the requirement for strong human interests to stay in the country. These included: a very strong increase in the number of children who came, both lone minors and children who came with parents. In 2009, more than 5,000 children sought residence in Norway. That means having a general rule that if you come as a minor, you're going to be, is an impossible rule to have. But emphasising that you are coming as a minor is another matter. We're already doing that today. We will look at this further in the big message we are presenting during the spring. But I'm so concerned about taking care of the asylum institute, not destroying it, but just taking care of it in order to provide protection for those people who need protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e463	Here the Prime Minister goes so far to the right that the Progress Party is holding his coat to make sure he doesn't run by. What we see is that we are now making an asylum and immigration policy that means that we do not take care of those that Norwegian society also needs. For Norwegian society – to preserve our well-being – people need to be able to contribute to Norwegian society. Therefore, labour immigration is actually a purely selfish act of Norwegian society. We want people like that, we want people who can contribute. But today, the Prime Minister, with his hard line, is making sure that those people who could actually have been involved and helped build Norwegian society are also thrown into the dragonfly by being the toughest in Europe, the toughest, the least humane and the least humane, who are not to see individuals but who are to be riders of the rules.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e470	As I pointed out before, we need rules, and we've made rules that just look at the individual. If we don't have rules that see individuals, we have to change the rules. That's exactly why we have these comprehensive arrangements. This specific case has been dealt with twice in the UDI, twice in the UN, one additional time now in the autumn and in the winter, and in addition to a Norwegian law. It's assessing the individual. And we're going to keep doing that. But when those decisions are taken, they must be respected. That's my message. In the case of labour immigration, the size has opened up for increased access to it. There's an allowance there of 5,000. I think that's very correct and very important. But when the Storting did it recently, the majority stressed that it was very important to separate it from the institution of asylum, so that the institution of asylum did not become an institution of labour immigration and that it was destroying the immigration of labour by first coming and applying for asylum, having this extensive procedure, perhaps being here for many years, then getting rejected, here are many years illegal, and so, when you are taken, start applying for labour immigration. Then the asylum institute breaks down. Then we will have even more unfounded asylum applications to Norway. Therefore, Stortinget has been clear that with a few exceptions it should be that you should apply from your home country. There are two completely different tracks, and I am concerned about that in terms of labour immigration and asylum.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e477	There are only two follow-up questions – first Per-Willy Amundsen. The president reminds us that you can move down to the pulpit in advance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e480	The questioner from the Left obviously lives in the error that a human asylum policy is about giving residence to people who have forced themselves to be here without having a legal right to do so and who are taking care of themselves in a way. You can turn the problem around, because you can use the system for years by suing cases, resuming cases, trying them before the courts, and even if you get a rejection, you can live in hiding here for years, doesn't work very humanely in itself. Living in an unexplained situation over a long period of time — you may also have children living up under such conditions — is at least not very humane from the point of view of the Progress Party; that is, putting people in that situation because public authorities are unwilling to take the measures they need to clean up the situation. Does the Prime Minister agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e489	I'm a little unsure if the question was really for me. I agree that people are not going to abuse the system, and the best way we can do it is that it doesn't pay to abuse the system. That's also why we're saying that there has to be an individual treatment, an individual assessment, of every individual human being because it's an individual creature, it's people we have to care about. Then it is that when you are here illegally after a decision has been made – and then it may have been many years – the time you have been here is illegal, not counting when you, for example. assesses the connection to the Reich, in which case it will pay to be illegal here. Then more people will be illegal here, and then we will have even bigger problems, both in dealing with integration policy and in dealing with immigration policy itself. Our policy is that we adopt rules to take care of the individual, and then we have to enforce the rules. That's the task of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e496	Michael Tetzschner – the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e499	I don't know if the prime minister has read the law professor Graver's article that if UNE had come to the opposite conclusion, it would have been within the law as well. I'm not so sure that there's something wrong with the law – that's the beauty exercise. It happens every day in the Norwegian administration that bad and unreasonable administrative decisions are taken without necessarily trending towards abuse of power, or so much unfair that they become illegal. Then politicians must be able to have an opinion on the reasonableness of individual questions, and I see that the Prime Minister, on a purely human basis, is unable to assess, or at least to express to the public, whether he thinks it is reasonable treatment, and whether he sees, like us, that there might be reason to go in and guide the judgment so that we can avoid such types of cases as we have seen in the Maria Amelie case. So my question is, just as a little further test of the Prime Minister's discretion here: does he think it was reasonable to use eight policemen to arrest a young, peaceful woman?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e509	I fully agree that politicians can guide discretion, but when politicians have decided, under different governments and with a broad majority here in the Grand Duchy, that the judgement should be exercised by the Foreign Minister, that we should not overdo that discretion, and that the judgement should also be exercised by the judge in a court, then the Prime Minister should not say that the judges are wrong. I think that is completely wrong. I'm going to both be involved in the adoption of laws, and I'm going to provide guidelines on the exercise of judgement, but I'm not going to exercise the judgement that judges or foreign students of ours have been set to exercise. I believe that it is very wrong and very unfair and very arbitrary. I want a fair and not an arbitrary foreign policy. If there's something wrong with the rules, we'll change them. If there's something wrong with the guidelines for the exercise of discretion, we'll change them. But then we do it so that it covers everyone in a neat and proper way – not by putting pressure on an arbitrary unfair foreign policy because a matter gets a lot of attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e514	We're going to the next main question, from Jon Hunter Gåssvatn. Last main question goes to Bent Höie. Two follow-up questions are permitted for these key issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e517	In his new year’s year, the Prime Minister said that all the elderly will receive the help they need. In recent times, we have had a number of disturbing stories about the quality of care for the elderly in Norway. Older caregivers are sent home, older caregivers are offered happiness pills rather than nursing homes, older people have to live in double rooms despite the promise of single rooms by nine health ministers. The promises of the Prime Minister’s New Year speech appear to be of little credibility, especially given that the Workers’ Party has voted against the Progress Party’s proposal on system change by earmarked means and massive investment in health home development according to the same model as we had in the kindergarten agreement, where the majority of the reform was private. If the answer to the Prime Minister is the guarantee of dignity, the elderly have little to look forward to, in my opinion. This guarantee is zero value. There are no statutory rights, and 430 municipalities will be able to practice it differently. The Prime Minister takes every opportunity to criticise the care of the elderly in municipalities where the Workers' Party does not govern, for example: in Oslo. In the evening post we saw an overview of the different municipalities, where Trondheim – which is the big city in Norway with the lowest exclusive coverage, and the exhibition window to the Workers' Party – was on the top ten list of the worst municipalities. We find here eight working party-driven municipalities and zero progress party-driven municipalities. I am not to blame for the local politicians of the Labour Party in Sarpsborg, Trondheim, Tromsø or other places where the care of the elderly is unworthy, because I think they are the victims of a system – a system that the Workers' Party has defended in this Chamber every year. It would have been liberating if the Prime Minister could now start discussing the system that makes it difficult for municipal politicians from all parties to give older people the care and dignity they need. My question to the Prime Minister is as follows: Does the Prime Minister acknowledge that there is a systemic failure in the care of the elderly? Or is he of the opinion that the care of the elderly in Trondheim, Sarpsborg, Tromsø and a number of other workers' party-driven municipalities is good enough, despite the fact that they have a worse care than they do in Oslo, which he is very happy to criticize?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e530	Elder care in Norway is not good enough, and there are many municipalities where care for the elderly needs to be strengthened and expanded. The need to expand care for the elderly will also increase in the years to come, because, fortunately, there are more elderly people. It is very good that there are more elderly people, but then we also need more care for the elderly. That is why a broad majority of the Grand Duchy has adopted an older settlement. In fact, we agreed on a settlement that means that we will expand Norwegian care for the elderly until 2015. We have created a stepping-up plan with several thousand new nursing homes and nursing homes, with several thousand new annual works, with stricter requirements for quality and the content of care for the elderly, and also a new law to simplify access to justice for those who feel that they do not receive adequate care for the elderly. Now that we've made a plan, implemented, and are about to step up our efforts towards 2015, it's precisely because we're not satisfied with the state of things. If we had been satisfied, we would not have had to make an escalating plan towards 2015. Trondheim is the municipality of the country that has expanded most hospitals, and they have also managed to formulate a goal of full health care coverage during 2011. If there is a need for hospitalisation, after a certain period of time, you should have a place to stay in hospital. There are many municipalities that have a lot to do, and we're working with the municipalities to solve the problems they're facing, and they're doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e541	I thank you for the answer, but I record that the Prime Minister, like the Minister of Health, is distanced from the reality that we see out there. In the 2009 election campaign, the prime minister of Sarpsborg, at Borgen Hospital, was a new nursing home with exclusive rooms. There he distributed roses in a well-known style and boasted by the municipality that the Workers' Party has run for a hundred years. Now Sarpsborg runs the municipality and turns it into a double room, so-called fortification. Similarly, they continue in Trondheim. Can the Prime Minister explain why this happens when the Workers' Party has power both in the state and in the municipality? There was an older nurturing lady who said that if she were to get a stranger into her solitary room, she would pay no more than half of what she pays today by her social security. The question is whether the Prime Minister is willing to meet such a requirement, as he is unable to honour the promise of exclusive space for many years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e550	When we, once again by a broad majority in Stortinget, formulated the goal of full coverage of energy – it was said in the Action Plan for Older People in 1996 – that the goal was to reach over 90 pst. in exclusive rooms by 2005. Today, the exclusive share is 96.8 pst. Almost 97 pst. Some people want to live in double rooms with their spouse, but of course many don't want to. This is why we will continue to develop care for the elderly in Norway. In most municipalities, in most places, it is a good exclusive coverage, and over the 90 pst. As the Stortinget formulated in 1996, there are still examples of people living in double rooms. Often it has a temporary character. It may be related to refurbishment/reconversion. But we won't be satisfied until everyone who wants it has exclusive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e555	They will be two follow-up questions – first Kari Kjönnaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e558	Darwin should have once said that it's madness to do the same thing over and over again and believe that you're going to get a better result. So nine health ministers have promised exclusiveness to all those who want it. In 1996, the former Minister of Social Affairs, Hill-Marta Solberg, pledged exclusive rights to all. Today, 15 years later, the Health Minister is aware that many still have to voluntarily share rooms with another, despite the fact that everyone knows that we lack several thousand sick homes. The answers that the Prime Minister gives here today are really the same answers that we've heard for 15 years. Today's system obviously doesn't work. Will the Prime Minister now attend and look at a change in the system, so that nine new health ministers do not come up with false hopes? And to make sure I understand the Prime Minister's answer, I ask for a yes or no. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e565	Maybe you can wait until you get the answer - speaking time is up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e568	I'm constantly willing to improve the system, change the system, do things in new ways. Not later than Christmas, we did two-three important things in relation to the development of care for the elderly. We increased the free income of the municipality by 1 billion. NOK so that they could get something extra, among other things. for care. We increased the earmarked grant for the development of nursing homes and nursing homes by 40 p.m., so that municipalities would get more money to expand nursing homes and nursing homes, so we have notified a law that would allow people to have better access to complaints if you are not satisfied with the care of the elderly. It will probably come in the spring, or will at least be sent to the hearing. We're constantly going to change the system, improve the system, and do things differently, because the overall goal is always to give people better care. The basic thing is that we are willing to spend enough money on it together, and therefore we cannot promise tax relief, but spend the money on care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e575	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e579	I am convinced that when Stoltenberg comes to London tonight, he would not have accepted to pay the full price of the hotel if he had shared the hotel room with a total stranger. But that is actually the situation of very many older people in Norway today. At the same time, the government feels that it has new, big ambitions for municipalities to use even more in hospitals. In fact, the government now, at the hearing, has a proposal that municipalities should pay a hospital fee if older people over 80 years of age are hospitalised. This will obviously lead to several older people waiting in line for a sick home, in a situation where the government has not yet been able to fulfill the promise that a total accumulation has given to them very, very many years ago, that is, that all the elderly who want to live in a single room will be allowed to do so. Is it not reasonable first to fulfill one promise before imposing even greater obligations on municipalities to offer to older people where there is no offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e586	Once we have sent a proposal to the hearing – I do not know the details of it – it has been sent to the hearing, and then we will listen to objections and suggestions, and then we will decide afterwards. Then we'll hear about the hearing. So in terms of the one-room coverage, it was 94.6 pst in 2005. So today it's increased to 96.8 pst. That means that there are still people who don't live on exclusive spaces. We're not sure how many of those who live in double rooms, who want to live in double rooms, but there are at least too many who live in two in the room who don't want it. That is why we are not satisfied, and that is why we are doing the measures we are taking to strengthen the development of care and care. But the basic challenges are that if we are to succeed in the massive expansion of care and care in Norway, we need to spend the money on the big tasks, such as care and care. We can't then promise tens of billions of lower taxes, because then it becomes less of care and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e593	We're going to go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e596	In the Questionnaire on 15 December before Christmas, the discussion on regional health businesses was ongoing. Then the Prime Minister brought it, which at least everyone who listened to it experienced as a pretty big news, that he said in answer to the questions from the undersigned: «So we can discuss how we organise it, but that the state should be responsible, I am sure of that.» Later, the Prime Minister said: ‘So it is that even if you abolish the regional health enterprises, you do not abolish the business model.’ This means that everyone perceived that the Prime Minister was open to discuss the closure of regional health businesses, to allow policymakers to regain control of health policy, and to leave the management of hospitals to the local hospital companies within a state model. While the Minister of Health of the VG on Sunday 16 January said: ‘It is not appropriate to change the business model.’ Then there is reason to ask the Prime Minister – in a situation where all parties other than the Workers' Party are discussing how to govern and organise our healthcare system in such a way that the population is once again experiencing that vital decisions are not taken by faceless bureaucrats but taken by elected politicians, it now seems that we have a health minister who is not at all interested in entering into this discussion: Is it the Prime Minister's words before Christmas, that one is open to discussing the business model, which applies, or is it the health minister's words on Sunday, that it is not relevant to discuss the business model, which applies?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e616	I think we have a challenge in Norwegian political debate in general – and that concerns us all. It's that if you don't rule out anything, you're open to it. If you don't rule out anything, you're almost done with it. What I want to convey is that I have an open and pragmatic view of instruments. The key is the goal: a good health offer for everyone living in our country. Then we should always be a little cheated on the tools, only we are faithful to the goals – always be open to change and adjust things. At the same time, if you have that attitude, you can't always have everything in play. I think that creates a lot of uncertainty and a lot of problems for big organisations like health companies, with about 100,000 employees and with many, many people being treated every single day. What we have said, and as the Minister of Health and I fully agree, is what is stated in the consultation proposal for the national health plan, namely that we are committed to an evaluation of the entire health business model, an investigation work, and that we are aiming to do so during this majority period. When it's done, I think it's time to discuss big and small changes and have an open mind. I can, of course, have an attitude, a sort of assessment of what I think I'm going to mean when this evaluation is over. If I'm going to tip what I might mean, I think I'm going to think that the state is still going to own the hospitals. That was the big question in 2001. And I feel that there are fewer and fewer people who believe that we should have 19 county municipalities and the state that owns again, because I think everyone does not understand – at least most. So how is the state supposed to organise its ownership? Well, we can always discuss that, but I strongly warn against saying that we don't have political governance. We have political governance. We can intervene in the decisions we want, and at least we have more national hospital control now than when there were 20 hospital owners. Then it was actually that nobody took responsibility, because then the county authorities said that we have no opportunity, because it is the state that has the money. And the state said, no, it's not our responsibility, because it's the county councils that own the hospitals. Now we have the control we want. We can use it. And that's the most important thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e629	I fully agree with the Prime Minister that it is quite clear that the conclusion will not be any other than that the State will own the hospitals. That is exactly what we agree with. Where the Prime Minister finds that debate, I don't know. There may be a kind of a little bit more separate debates going on internally in the government between the Workers' Party and the Center Party, but I haven't seen anyone else on that track. That's why it's not the discussion I invite the Prime Minister to attend, but the discussion about what is the alternative to dividing Health Norway into four different health regions, which lead different health policies, which patients experience as a problem in everyday life. If the Workers' Party stands on the point of having regional health enterprises, it is actually the Workers' Party that declares itself out of what all other parties today experience as a very important and significant debate at that time – not in four years’ time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e636	I believe that the hospital service is such a large and important organisation that we cannot create uncertainty about it all the time. Now we invite you to an evaluation. Then we're going to review the experience, and then we're going to make the changes and adjustments, big or small, we're going to think right. Then I think it's a little dangerous to rule things out, but I have an assessment of what I think I'm going to mean when the evaluation is done. When I say that, it's among other things. because the experience is mainly good. We've had a huge increase in the number of patients being treated. We have, among other things: because we have regional coordination, a much better division of work between hospitals. Before we treated cancer in very many hospitals. Now we treat cancer in many fewer hospitals, and the survival rate has increased sharply. In terms of heart, it's one of the same thing. But the fact that we get a work division between hospitals requires some kind of body that gets to that work division between hospitals. Then we can't have a system that doesn't make sense work sharing between hospitals in a region. In addition, the economy is in balance. It never happened during the county. It happens under the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e645	There will be two follow-up questions – first Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e648	The government has announced that it will submit a national health plan to spring, and the Prime Minister now says that there should be a review of the work distribution between the different hospitals. ‘The size should be given the opportunity to discuss broad guidelines on health policy.’ That's what the prime minister said just before Christmas. There are very many of us waiting in suspense at this health and morbidity plan. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister whether there will be an operational national health plan, where the Stortinget is leading the way the hospital structure will look like in the future, or whether it will still be up to regional health companies to decide the structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e660	With a few exceptions, I feel that the most important discussion around hospitals is not about where the hospitals should be – at least there is one important exception – but it is about what hospitals should do. Now we've definitely got a new hospital in Eastfold. We have a discussion about hospitals in More and Romesdal, i.e. in Molde. But otherwise, most of the discussion is related to departments and functions. What I'm saying is that I want to be very careful about adding that the Storting is going to mean something about departments. We should mean something overall. The government should also be careful about that. That is why we have, for example: in relation to the supply of food, made a quality requirement. It's planned, and then we're going to follow it up. But adding up to it every time there is a change in work distribution, departmental structure, between different hospitals, I think it would be easy for us to get a worse health service because it becomes too complicated and extensive to make absolutely necessary adjustments. The big business and the government believe just as much the big business and the government itself will. But we're the ones delegating things from us if we want to, and I think it's right with a certain delegation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e667	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e671	I'm going to resist the temptation to comment on the Prime Minister's very far-reaching image of the county council's management of hospitals. In fact, I am the only one in this country who has been the Minister of Health both at county level responsibility for hospitals and state responsibility for hospitals, and it is not as black and white as the Prime Minister is now making it. But the Prime Minister is right that there will be fewer and fewer people who believe that the state should give up ownership of the hospitals. On the other hand, more and more people believe that the time has come to remove this regional, bureaucratic intermediary between the state, national government, which must lie here, and the local operational responsibility that must lie in the local health establishments. I want to remind the Prime Minister that thanks to regional health companies, we now only have twenty local health companies, while we had over 50 local health companies when this reform was introduced. Structural changes have been made in many ways, and the question is whether or not time is now needed to reverse policy. It is absolutely right that politicians can rule, but the problem is that this government is taking very little advantage of the opportunity to rule.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e678	Politicians can rule, will rule, and we rule. The main goal of whether we run is whether we succeed in achieving our goals, that's not the number of decisions, the number of documents or the number of papers. But as we treat more and more patients, it's an expression of our success in health. When we succeed in getting more money back and more efficient use of the heads in the health care system, it is an expression that we succeed in something very important. When we succeed in getting a significantly better division of work between hospitals, we succeed with something. And when we succeed in balancing the economy, for the first time in many years, there's something important going on. I believe that the only goal of whether we run well or poorly, much or not, is whether we reach the goals we set – not how many decisions we make, but how far we are going to achieve the political objectives we have set ourselves. So we've come a long way, but I'm open to discuss further adjustments and changes all the time. I'm an open, pragmatic person who listens to arguments, and I adjust when I hear good arguments. It's been my whole life and I'm going to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e683	So we're done with the oral question procedure, and we're going over to the ordinary question procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e695	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Henning Warloe to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has been away. At the request of the Minister of Research and Higher Education, this question is moved and answered in response to question 13, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 10, from the representative Morten Ørsal Johansen to the Minister of Justice, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State before question 2, i.e. first in the Questionnaire. Questions 11 and 12 from the representatives of Trine Skei Grande and Ketil Solvik-Olsen, respectively, to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 15, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Food and Trade, who is directly responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e710	The first question is question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e717	‘Persons who fill their cars with petrol, and then leave the bill, have become an increasing problem, despite the fact that petrol dealers have invested in expensive and advanced monitoring equipment where it is clear who the detonators are. It turns out more and more that the police are laying these matters down. Does the Council of State believe that it is right for the police not to prosecute such cases, but, on the other hand, to prosecute them, and has the Council of State come up with any thoughts as to what kind of signal effect this gives?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e724	In the case of decisions on criminal investigations, this falls within the competence of the prosecution authorities. In its exercise of the prosecution authority, the Advocate General is not subject to the Ministry of Justice of the Council of State, so it is difficult for me to go into individual cases or the assessments on which prosecution is based. However, I have asked the national lawyer for an orientation on these matters, and I would quote what the national lawyer has said about this: there is no separate statistical group on the criminal situation the representative describes. The statistical group on which most of these matters are located is assumed to be under ‘theft of a service station’. Of course, this may also include factors other than what are commonly referred to as ‘pump sticks’, but it is assumed that most of the conditions of this nature are captured by this statistical group. The country-wide statistics JUS 065 on reported cases show that 831 thefts were reported from refuelling stations in 2009 and 713 in 2010 — in other words, a decline, as we, fortunately, see in the crime scene for the rest of the last year. Country-wide percentage of information in the statistics JUS 309 shows a percentage of information for the statistical group of 55,9 for 2009 and 56 for 2010, which is known to be higher than the general percentage of information. Based on these figures, it does not appear that the field of action represents an increasing problem, or that the police increasingly resolve such cases. I have not considered myself a member of the risk group for ‘pump stick’, but I have registered that petrol dealers can choose not to open pumps if they are not clearly identified with a vehicle, or the customer pays with a credit card. I assume that the industry will also take responsibility if it perceives “pumpstik” as an increasing problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e740	As I said in my first question, the petrol dealers have done a lot, it is invested in a lot of advanced monitoring equipment. Now it's like this advanced equipment gives clear images of those who fill petrol and run off – it shows signs, it shows face, and there's no doubt about who the people are. It is registered that the same person has filled and stabbed up to 20 times without paying the bill, and up to five, six, seven times from the same station. The police in Buskerud have chosen to order these matters because of the position of the evidence. And the chief of police even says the pictures are too bad. When there is a clear sign, when there is a clear appearance on the face, and the petrol dealers even have a clear identification by name, what more is needed to ensure that the police do not settle the case because of the position of the evidence?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e749	So, as I was talking about initially, the prosecution authorities and the national attorney assess these questions. But I want to say that many of the technological possibilities we have, that there are images, that the representative is also in, and that you also have the opportunity to defend yourself against this, just as I was in my post, that's some of the explanation for lower numbers in terms of this phenomenon. There must also be some explanation that the percentage of information in relation to this type of crime is actually increasing and is higher than the general level. So my general approach to this is that here the police actually do their job to a large extent. It is difficult for me to go into a specific matter in Buskerud and what kind of reasons the police give in relation to this, in addition to the fact that in these matters too one must be prepared to prove that it is beyond reasonable doubt.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e754	It has been told me that at least much of the reason why the number of cases goes down is that the industry is not going to report, because when the cases are ordered again after time, a well after every interest in reporting the cases is lost, and starts almost to give up. In a few of these cases, where one moved to Buskerud, the cases were transferred to the neighbouring district. The neighbourhood had no problem identifying the person from the picture, and this person was also fined. Now it's like some of these people get fined, keep filling, they're giving the flakes of it, and the criminal reaction around it, i.e., with fines, doesn't seem to work. In some cases of traffic offences, police have actually seized vehicles and driving licences before it has actually been a crime, but as a preventative measure. Does the Council see the possibility of using such a criminal reaction against people who run away from the gas bill repeatedly?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e759	In any case, if crime occurs repeatedly, whether it is against gas stations or others, whether it is gain or violence, it is punishable, so that it can result in longer penalties, more severe penalties. It could also mean moving from a different type of criminal reaction to what you have originally received, for example. from fines, community sentences to prison sentences. It must also apply in these cases, obviously. If it is repeated ‘pumpstik’, it must qualify for both stricter criminal species and stricter penalties. So I've been concerned about all kinds of fight against crime, that we have to think more creatively than just putting people in prison to prevent relapse. And there it is at least so that when you have the right to withdraw from the objects you use in criminal behaviour, the police should use it more than now, so that there we are in line with the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e766	So we go to question 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e773	‘According to The Times on Wednesday 24 November, the Russian secret service FSB was behind the killing of six Red Cross nurses, including two Norwegians, in Chechnya in 1996. It's been assumed in the past that Chechen rebels were behind, but an FSB defector has now appeared in The Times with new evidence. What are the Norwegian authorities doing now to clarify the facts of the case, and what will be done to the Russian authorities if the allegations prove to be correct?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e780	The killings of two Norwegian and four other foreign workers at the International Red Cross Hospital in Chechnya on 17 December 1996 were a very serious attack on international humanitarian engagement and a major tragedy for the families affected. I have been involved from my Red Cross background to light up for these two December 17th. This is done annually in the Norwegian Red Cross. From the outset, Norway has demanded that Russian authorities do everything in their power to find these perpetrators and to put them in charge. It is sad to note that 14 years after the killings, the perpetrators have not yet been arrested and convicted. In the years since this upheaval, Norway, in cooperation with the authorities of the countries from which the other victims came, and in cooperation with the International Red Cross Committee, has raised the matter with the Russian authorities on several occasions. We have done this both at the political level and in contacts at the level of office. Like the International Red Cross Committee, we have repeatedly expressed concerns about the lack of progress in this investigation. We have received insurance from the Russian authorities that the investigation continues, and that such crimes have no limitation period. The conflicts in Chechnya, which were behind the attack on the hospital, have obviously distorted the investigation, and over the years have produced a number of conflicting theories in the media about who was behind it. We have not had the basis to assess the credibility of these claims. In such a broader perspective, the look in The Times adds itself to this picture of different versions and theories. On the basis of the information provided in the paper, we have re-addressed the Russian authorities and asked for information on the state of the investigation. We have broad cooperation with Russia in a number of areas, including relevant to this region. We are continuing assistance to North Caucasus and, in particular, Chechnya. It concerns both humanitarian aid, the promotion of respect for human rights and the strengthening of legal certainty. We expect the Russian authorities to do their utmost to resolve the crime and put the guilty ones to the test. Taking into account the security of humanitarian workers is essential for the possibility of effective humanitarian aid, and this type of event sends out ring-fences in time and space with regard to the safety of relief workers. Under international humanitarian law, the parties to a conflict are obliged to fully respect the neutrality of humanitarian personnel. In order to avoid the impunity of attacks on humanitarian workers, attacks must be investigated and the culprits judged and punished. We expect that from Russia, and we expect new information to come out, which has one, we shall say, some quality and credibility, and that it will be commented on and followed up on the Russian side. We're going to keep the pressure on it even in the time that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e797	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs for the answer, and I also find it reassuring that, in particular, these recent events, the latest information that emerges, have also provided the basis for renewed contact with the Russian authorities. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs also rightly points out, over the 14 years that have passed, there have been many different versions of what may have happened. But what I think separates this new information from what has appeared before is that at a very detailed level from a person who is just enough now defecting from the FSB, a very clear picture is given of an incident course that provides a more detailed basis for investigating and investigating it. I would also like to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if there are any specific timeframes for when the Norwegian authorities have asked for feedback from the Russian authorities on precisely this latest development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e802	On that question I will answer that it is not that there is a formal deadline for answering, but when we ask detailed questions, we will after some time ask where there will be answers to those questions. So it's true, as the representative says, that this information has come from a defector. It is then natural that cooperative services assess the quality of the information they provide in this case and in other cases. It will take some time on the analysis page to position this information in relation to other information, and their credibility. But as the representative says, this is serious and detailed information that we're going to be putting pressure on the Russian authorities beyond the weeks and months now in 2011 – after we've got the information that's come out of this otherwise credible newspaper.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e809	It is obvious that neither the Minister for Foreign Affairs nor I can stand here and assess the credibility of those who provide information. It is therefore good and reasonable that both Russian authorities and cooperative services have now been set in motion to assess this. But it's also interesting for me, and for Stortinget, to know what the Norwegian authorities might be doing to the Russian authorities if these claims were to prove to be correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e814	I hope you understand that giving a hypothetical answer to such a serious claim – if it turns out to be correct – I should be careful. I will go back to what is the starting point, namely the fight against impunity, a very clear demand that it be investigated, and that those suspected of having committed such acts should be prosecuted. And should it be such a sensitive fact as these statements show, it's that this is now out in the way it is, another reason to keep pressure to get clear answers from the Russian side. But the principle of criminal prosecution, investigation, and the fact that those who have committed the acts are judged, must be our starting point, whether the perpetrators of this monstrous act come from one background or the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e825	I have a question for the Minister for Transport: «We again experience reports of poorly-shoeed car combinations on Norwegian winter roads. This creates road-hazardous situations with a high risk to life and health for other road users. In particular, foreign vehicle combinations are often very unsatisfactory protection for Norwegian conditions. The state’s road system is alerting more frequent checks, yet there are many dangerous incidents daily. What new measures will the Council of State take to change this unsustainable situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e834	I'm busy with the dangerous traffic situations that bad-boiled car combinations can create on the Norwegian road. There is an unsustainable situation in which both Norwegian and foreign drivers do not take due account of weather conditions. It also affects traffic disruption, with the costs involved. In the winter half of the year, a good grip for running gear is important for emergence and traffic safety on the Norwegian road. When events occur, the reason is often a combination of bad tyres, missing chains, inappropriate driving combinations and inexperienced drivers. The State Road Administration has stated that from 1 October to 15 December 2010 there have been 62 events that have resulted in road and/or car storage that are caused by heavy running gear on national and county roads in the north region. Of these 62 events, there were 22 with foreign vehicles, which corresponds to about 20 percent. 30 pst. of the total cases. The state Road Service has been focusing on the problems for years. A number of measures have been taken to prevent heavy goods vehicles from creating problems in winter traffic. The state road authority carries out targeted checks. It'll be, for example. focused specifically on running gear that is not suitable for winter running, which has bad tyres and/or missing chains. Driving gear with these defects will usually be banned and removed from traffic. Another problem is when heavy goods vehicles get stuck. In these situations, it is important that they are quickly removed from the road – this is due to traffic trends, but also to the most effective snow clearance. Experience in the south of the country in the winter of 2006/2007 shows that an important reason why they were unable to keep these roads open was fixed heavy-duty vehicles that prevent effective snow clearance. The state Road Service has learned that in some cases the removal of heavy running vehicles has taken a long time, including: because the drivers do not have the ability or the willingness to pay for the assignment, possibly the guarantee provided by the owner, freight forwarder or others. I am pleased to announce that the Road Traffic Act has recently been amended, so that the State Road Service is now allowed to remove running gear that has been used to prevent the appearance. Only the police had this right before. Now, it's easier for road traffic controllers to get on our roads quickly. This is, in my opinion, an important measure that has recently come into force, which we will see the effects of the outlying in the winter. In addition, let me stress that it is obvious that it falls on the individual, whether Norwegian or foreign, to shoe for adequate grip in relation to the handling.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e849	I thank you for your answer. It is true that many people feel a considerable uncertainty by laying out on Norwegian roads during the winter, precisely because we are still reading reports about too poorly-shoeed car combinations that also create dangerous situations for other road users. Not only do they create traffic jams by standing and blocking the road – they actually blocked the main entryways, so we saw in many reports in the Western newspapers last week – but it is the fear that something will happen to these poorly-shoeed car combinations that may occupy most. It is then gratifying that the Road Traffic Act has been amended to give you this home. Can the Council of State imagine returning to Stortinget and reporting on the impact this has had on this particular problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e856	That's the answer. I look with interest at the possible impact of this proposal. I did my part to bring the matter before the Stortinget. The Storting managed to change the law very quickly, and she was immediately also punished by the King, last Friday before Christmas. It means so much that the State Road Service has had this home for a short time. They need a little time to focus on practice. There's still some work to do before you can announce how this home works, but I'm looking forward to the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e861	I would like to thank you for the answer and for the fact that the Council of State addressed this matter, which, once again, occupies a great many. I also think that many people ask if there are strong enough sanctions against those who are not really doing it. It's an area in which it's certainly possible to do more. It will also help to improve the competitive situation of Norwegian vehicles, which are thus facing this situation on the roads: non-resident vehicles that do not handle Norwegian conditions properly. Earlier today, we have had a debate with the Prime Minister on road safety. Unfortunately, he would not accept an outstretched hand and create an action plan that could commit us all. The councils have previously suggested that she will think about it for herself. Could the Council of State say anything more about that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e870	Let me say that, as Mr Halleraker knows very well, we have a comprehensive road safety plan, with actually 152 measures. So I have said that I will not reject any proposals that will contribute to better road safety, but let me now take advantage of the opportunity to invite Right to cooperate on what is called ‘route automatic traffic control’. Measurement of average speed is the measure now considered internationally to contribute to the highest efficiency in terms of road safety. We have now given green light to the State Road Service to implement 40 new sections in that area. There you can Right contribute - put away your resistance and set it up for you.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e877	I guess I won't get any more questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e882	I'm sure the representative Øyvind Halleraker doesn't. On the other hand, the representative Arne Sortevik will now have the floor, because we will move on to question 4, which is from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e889	The question is: ‘Annually granted over the State budget. 1351 money for the purchase of passenger transport services by train. The total amount in 2011 is 2200 million. kr. In 2009, 40 pst. of the money used for transportation in the city and the county of Oslo. The three other major cities in Norway, Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim have little railway network in their own city. Therefore, today’s scheme provides a significant special treatment for passenger transport in Oslo. Will the Council of State change this in such a way that the population of the largest cities is treated in a non-discriminatory way through the annual purchase of passenger transport by the State?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e898	Public transport is currently organised in such a way that the county authorities are responsible for the operation of all local public transport, while the state is responsible for all passenger traffic on the State railway network. State transfers to state municipalities, among others the operation of local public transport is cleared of the budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs. The transfers are divided into counties according to fixed split keys to capture the differences in expenditure in the operation of the local public transport of the county. From 2005 onwards, the government has taken over priority municipalities and county councils by ensuring a strong growth in free income. These revenues, which consist mainly of frame payments and county tax revenues, finance, among other things. continuing school, country roads and local public transport. In 2011, the total level of free income of county municipalities is approximately 49.5 billion. kr. In 2005, the corresponding revenues were about 29 billion. kr. Although one takes into account price developments and more tasks, the growth in the loopholes of municipalities and county municipalities shows that the government is investing in local services – also in the other cities. In 2009, the county councils also had a total of 8 billion. kr for expenditure on scheduled operations over the county budget, an increase of 15 pst. from the previous year. The state licenses for the purchase of passenger services on the State railway network are given over to the Ministry of Transport's budget. It also includes local train services operated by NSB. Today there is a local train on the state railway network around all the largest cities in Norway. Unlike the local train around Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim, the local train in Oslo on the state railway network is cross-border so that at the same time they meet a transport need in Akershus, Buskerud and Østfold. The railway is a specially integrated system. In general, I believe that transport needs need to be addressed by means of the modes of transport that are best suited in different parts of the country. The government’s right to purchase passenger services should thus not be dissociated from other rights to the state railway undertaking. We have a responsibility to manage our society's resources as best as possible, and we must then focus on how best to meet transport needs in different parts of the country. Norway is a long-distance country with scattered busses, and in many places the car or bus is better suited than the railway. Railway operation is particularly costly and best suited to transport many people in a short time between the central hub. In the case of rail passenger transport, the government of the current NTP commits to prioritizing the near traffic around the largest cities and train traffic on the InterCity routes in the Austland. In these areas, rail passenger transport has the largest market base and competitive edge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e911	I would like to thank you for the answer, which describes today's system and illustrates the bias. On urban transport policy, the government itself in the NTP says that it is important to improve the opportunities to invest in local public transport. Better collective provision increases collective use. Will there then be historical conditions, long-term railway construction, which will be decisive for the purchase of public transport by the State in the four largest cities? In 2009, the reward scheme, which goes to public transport, mainly buses, was well over 300 million. kr. – half of the country used in 2009 to buy passenger transport services in Oslo. For travelers in the largest cities, it is important that it is a good collective offer. Whether it's a bus or a train is less important. For the travellers in Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim, it is important that the state contributes, regardless of where there is a lot of railway, or where there is a lot of road.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e918	Let me say three things. First of all, when it comes to the reward scheme, Oslo will argue that they get too little of it. The reason for this is two-part, but I don't now use the time to do this. Secondly, let me say that collective action will increase the attention of the roll that we are carrying out, and that is in relation to the national transport plan. Thirdly, in 2009, the number of local train trips in the Oslo region was about 72 p.m. of all journeys by train in Norway. 40 pst. of the government's license went to purchase a local train in Oslo. So the supplement rate per trip in Oslo was $19. The corresponding allowance per trip in Trondheim was SEK 74, the local train in Stavanger was SEK 39, Bergen-Arna 22 and Bergen-Voss-Myrdal NOK 104.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e925	I thank you for your answer. And you can do this in a lot of ways. In 2009, the state spent almost 650 million. kr on urban passenger transport in Oslo. The mountains get less than 20 million. kr for its own urban section between Bergen and Arna. The distortion is obvious. If this is recalculated per capita, the country is buying per capita in Oslo for more than NOK 1 100, while in Bergen it is less than NOK 80. But the answer is clearly given twice – so it's the railway that's going to get more money. How will the government get speed on railway development in Bergen to, for example, the district of Åsane, with 45000 inhabitants, and to the airport of Flesland, which is the second largest airport in the country, so that the local railways in Bergen can be connected to a national network — also with the appropriations granted from the State to that railway network?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e932	Let me just repeat once that the supplement element here is very different per trip, i.e. 19 kroner per trip in Oslo, corresponding to 74 kroner per trip by local train in Trondheim, and by local train in Stavanger 39 kroner. The corresponding figure for Bergen-Arna is 22 and for Bergen-Voss-Myrdal 104. That means there's an additional element inside. So I think that when we think about the future, on the one hand we have to base ourselves on the transport network that fits best. On the other hand, we also need to consider, for example: the plans in place when it comes to the urban railways, as we have confirmed in the Soria Moria Declaration, that we should take care of our contribution to the county municipalities where it is relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e943	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘Exposed remote control of the Nordlandsbahn combined with the lack of staff on the part of the Railway Agency has caused serious delays for freight trains from Oslo to the end station in Bodø. Sometimes it's more than 50 pst. of this traffic more than four hours delayed, with the enormous negative logistical problems involved. Delays can be largely avoided if the railway works have a crew in place to ensure that the train stops are avoided. Will the Council of State, as soon as possible, ensure that such staffing is now deployed on the Nordlandsbanen?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e952	Some freight trains on the Nordlandsbanen have had major delays in the last year. I have been informed by the Railway Agency that this is mainly due to the delay of trains from the freight terminal at Alnabru in Oslo. The exit from Alnabru may be up to three hours late in relation to the scheduled schedule. Delays from Alnabru due to train not being prepared at the agreed time according to the timetable. The main problems of Alnabru are mainly due to: Winter problems with vehicles that have to be cleaned and vehicles that have to be repaired in the workshop. It takes time to see these in traffic again because of the limited operational track space. It is easy to wait when several train operators want to switch at the same time due to limited space. Restrictions have been made in the use pattern due to requirements for shunting with air brakes on large parts of the terminal due to accidents on Alnabru/Sjur Island. When a train is delayed from Alnabru, this delay is usually left unchanged or increased on the way to Bodø. This is related to the fact that from Eidsvoll and northwards there is a single track, which means that the train can only cross at selected crossing stations depending on the distance of the train. The delayed trains cannot be checked as planned and the Railways must make a choice as to which trains should be given priority when crossing. The timetable process establishes the rule that a train on a route shall have priority when crossing over delayed trains. This means that freight trains delayed from Oslo are often delayed from Trondheim to Bodø. I have been informed by the Railway Agency that figures from December 2010 show that the delay on freight trains from Oslo to Bodø will be somewhat reduced on the Nordlandsbanen on the road to Bodø. The railway station has placed people at the crossing stations according to the timetable configuration. In the event of delays, the Railway Agency will consider the possibility of relocating people based on the crossing of trains. Such extrabetancing is carried out as far as it can be done and if it gives effect. Increased staffing alone cannot reduce delayed freight trains between Oslo and Bodø. In order to solve the problems, priority must be given to the preparation of the freight train to go from Alnabru, so that they are ready to go according to a defined timetable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e975	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I think there is a need for a slightly more complementary response than what the Council of State is delivering today. The fact is that the railway system has been dismantled, while hoping that the remote control system – the Mercury system – would be in place. It's as well-known far from the case. Then the situation is that you have stepped down the crew, which means that trains stay standing for up to three hours in Trondheim. The consequence of not being able by the Railway Agency to have one person in place five hours a day during the week is that this reproduces and produces almost unmanageable ring-effects, which result in thousands of containers on the road network, which should not have been there, but which should have been on the railway. Will the Council of State take care to have one man in place at Bolna Station, for example, so that you can solve this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e984	I have asked the Railway Agency to assume an overall responsibility for the collection of railway operations on the State railway network, and made it clear that it means that all actors are doing their best to ensure that the train traffic is on a route. It also applies to freight traffic and to the operation of freight terminals. Then it's planned to rebuild and expand the capacity of Alnabru. It is mentioned in the national transport plan. In the longer term it will help to make freight traffic between Oslo and Bodø more robust and less subject to delays. And so today, the Railway Agency lacks railway professional competence, which also includes train agents. The railway works have a high priority in developing and recruiting the necessary professional skills. So Ivar Kristiansen very well knows that something of the last Right did when they left the government, was cut right into the railroad tracks. They're now solid on the way up again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e993	The last blatant remark from the Council of State I choose to hear. This does not solve the problem of a large transport industry in Norway. Now we see that Schenker chooses to drive trains through Sweden, we see that CargoNet transports 600 000 containers each year on the railway body. This destroys the trust of a system that gets almost the billions they point to. This is the case in the case of the Nordlandsban and the trust in a chartering system to have one person in place five hours five days a week. Then I expect the Council of State, given this bottleneck, to take a new initiative to ensure that the crew is put in place, when the remote control system is not in place. For the Council of State knows even better than I do that the consequence is that we get thousands of new car trains on the road network, at any time anyone should have made sure that the containers were included in the railway system infrastructure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1000	The goal of the government is to get more goods on the path. And that's also what makes us just on the verge of organizing more for it. Of course, it's about both vows and competences, and it can be about other matters. One could call it "sleivspark", but we've increased the permissions of the railway by a total of 67 pst. The hour we have been in government. In any case, this has meant that we have both been able to clean ballast and provide for both maintenance, renewal and new tracks, and we have planned something more in the longer term – among others. Ofotbanen is a success in the context of goods. But let me underline: I take with me this question about a person in place in the right time back to the Railway Agency. I know that the Railway Agency is currently struggling with a lack of competence, but I take it with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1011	‘For women with housing address in the municipality of Fusa, children are expected. She passed the semester, and on January 4th this year, the water went. She was then sent to the Women's Clinic in Bergen. After an investigation where she was sent home with a message that if the birth starts tonight, you have to call for an ambulance. When a woman felt insecure about ferries that did not go at night, she asked for accommodation, which she did not get, then the doctor replied that it was not economic for. Does the Council of State think that one can use the economy rather than the security of individuals in this situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1018	I do not know the matter that is raised here. However, I understand that the woman experienced insecurity in a vulnerable situation. Of course, economics is not a valid reason when medical conditions require a woman to stay close to the place of birth. If a doctor has made such a statement on the matter, the matter should be referred to the health undertaking concerned as a complaint, possibly referred to the State Health Authority. Many birthers live near the birthplace before birth. There may be several reasons for this, including: distance between home and place of birth, communication, weather and medical conditions. All these conditions must be considered as the woman approaches the time of birth. Pregnancy at risk of complications is often taken in good time before birth if they have a long journey. It is the medical evaluation and safety requirement that are essential when health professionals make decisions relating to the individual patient. If it was medically justified that the woman had to stay near the hospital, the hospital should have either put her in the Women's Clinic or in the patient's hotel. If the birther is admitted, this is of course free of charge for the woman. In such cases there shall be medical needs and the requirement of soundness to be decisive, not economic considerations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1029	I thank you for your answer. I'm glad that the council thinks one should take care of the woman and her security. But, sadly, in this case, the will and practice are not exactly what follow each other. The woman traveled home as there was no room for her in the hostel, and, as it was said, it cost too much. The birth started on the morning noise, and when they called the women's clinic to get an ambulance, there was a new no. The reason was that this cost NOK 20 000. Is it acceptable for the Council of State that the costs of using ambulances are used as an argument that they will get a no again?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1036	It's hard to comment on individual matters. But if that's the way it's referred to, that the economy has been used and it wasn't fair for this woman to go home from the hospital in the first place, or not have access to the ambulance, it's obviously not acceptable. I believe that this matter must therefore be brought up by this woman with the hospital and, where appropriate, with the health care department in the county. They are the ones who should have complaints when patients believe they have not received the treatment they claim and are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1041	I thank you again for your answer. History continues that the coming father became frustrated and angry, most certainly because of an unsafe situation. He's calling the police's emergency number. An ambulance is sent here, but the child is still born in ferjekaia without a doctor or a health care professional present. Luckily, it went fine. So here, the police are able to evaluate the situation in a more health-friendly way than the health services themselves, and without talking about economics. Is the Minister satisfied that one is getting such a situation in the country? Will the Minister do something about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1048	Of course, it is not the case that the economy should stand in the way of sound treatment. I believe that everyone who is born has a right to safety when they are in a birth situation. That's also why I say that if this case is correctly referred to for me, it is not acceptable that the economy is ahead of security. It must always be such that first account must be taken of the proper treatment, care and safety of a birth situation before any economic discussion is undertaken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1057	‘After waiting six weeks for MR, a patient was diagnosed with a brain tumor of 2 cm, and in MR study 17 days later the tumour had grown to 2.3 cm. The increase led to radiation being no longer a current treatment. Time for operation in Bergen was set at February 15, i.e. a new waiting time of 39 days. The patient has severe pain and is put on Tegretol and signs of deterioration in health. What does the Council of State think that patients with growing brain tumors and severe pain should have to wait so long for treatment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1064	It is not acceptable that patients with a suspected serious illness have a long waiting period for investigation or treatment. Time for examination and treatment for each patient shall always be considered in relation to the requirement of soundness. It is not possible for me to comment on the medical assessments referred to in the question from the representative Giltun. However, I have been in contact with Health West RHF, who has assured that investigation and diagnostic clearance will be within medically acceptable deadlines. I have requested in the 2011 mission document that the waiting times in the specialist health service be reduced. Current measures to reduce waiting time may include increased investigative capacity and use of private actors where this helps to reduce waiting times in a cost-effective way. We follow up on the efforts of regional health businesses to reduce waiting times for treatment and intensify their follow-up as we have done in the economic field. Regional health enterprises shall report monthly waiting times to the Ministry of Health from 2011. We've also asked the Health Directorate to facilitate the publication of historical waiting times in the cancer field. In May 2010, the State Health Authority presented a report on the risk profile of Norwegian cancer treatment. The report identifies and describes a number of risk factors in the contact of healthcare companies with cancer patients, including investigational logistics, information flows, continuity of treatment and complication monitoring. Regional health enterprises were asked in the revised 2010 mission paper to base this report on their further efforts to improve the quality of service. We have also requested in the 2011 mission document that the follow-up to the Health Authority reports should have a greater focus. In 2011, particular attention shall be paid to health surveillance reports on the risk profile of Norwegian cancer treatment. The improvement of the quality of the service shall be based on the Health Authority’s report, with particular emphasis on the three main risk areas of the report: investigation logistics, information flow and complication monitoring.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1077	Clearly, with regard to proper waiting time, first and foremost life and death are taken into account. What is not taken into account, in this case at least, is the development of the disease, what the patient suffers from secondary diseases and plagues, drug use, which is often addictive, psychological strain on both patients and relatives, and a long absence from work. It costs socio-economically, and it costs a lot of suffering and frustration for the patient every day. My question is: will the Council of State ensure that something can be called the ideal time of treatment for this type of suffering? It's predictable, kind of, how many cases you get of brain tumors per year. It should be fully possible to adjust the treatment capacity so that there was no more than absolutely necessary waiting time to prepare for such treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1084	Once again, it is often difficult to discuss a single matter when you do not know everything behind the individual case. But in general, I would like to repeat what I have said in the introduction, that it is not acceptable that patients with a suspicion of serious illness have a long waiting period for investigation or treatment. This waiting time, both for investigation and treatment, must be assessed on the basis of the individual patient and also on the basis of what the doctor considers to be a reasonable waiting time. That's the starting point. That's why it's so hard to make one state a general question in the Storting, because I'm a politician, not medically responsible. I have to assume that the medically responsible also make medically responsible assessments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1091	In 2008, there was a change in the practice of MR studies, which resulted in a very large number of waiting hours. So this patient waited six weeks. In the past, you would be able to get the investigation faster. Doctors, i.e. doctors, are unable to make a diagnosis until you have been examined. It is bombed in about half of the cases where cancer is detected. It won't be revealed until you get the MR study. So it could have been avoided by keeping old practice, with shorter waiting time for MR. In France, there is no waiting time for treatment beyond the time it takes to determine before treatment, i.e. the necessary investigations to be carried out by the patient. Waiting time is an unnecessary evil. And it doesn't cost less to treat a patient who's been waiting for several weeks for treatment, rather, on the contrary, the patient has suffered a lot more, while having a period of illness. The socio-economic calculation will be very expensive if you don't change this now and go away from ‘responsible’ waiting time and maybe start going for ‘ideal’ waiting time, especially in cases like this. What does the Council of State think of that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1100	As I also said in my answer, I am very concerned to bring down the waiting times and would like to receive all the good suggestions to get that time down. I have also said that it is important that we use private actors to reduce the waiting time if the public health service or those with whom we have an agreement are not able to deal within a reasonable time. We will follow up this case because it is very special. But I would like to stress that it is very difficult to have a discussion and answer a question in Stortinget on the basis of one particular matter, which I know no more than what is in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1111	‘Last week, several alarming issues have arisen regarding the impact on patients of the implementation of the capital process. Reference is made to the Stortinges interpellation debate on this topic. Does the State Council consider that the results so far show that these changes take place at a pace that ensures that patient safety and quality are not affected?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1118	At the turn of the year, local hospital responsibility for the population of the city of Alna in Oslo and in the municipalities of Follo was transferred from Oslo University Hospital to Akershu University Hospital. This means an increase in the population base of 160,000 people for Ahus. Health South-East has followed the process closely, in order to ensure that patients have a proper service offer both in terms of capacity and quality. As is known, adapted manning and competence have been an identified risk factor in the process. But during the fall, Aarhus recruited and added staff in most of the positions. Therefore, the assessment was that Aarhus would handle the increased patient base properly from the turn of the year. In recent times it has been reported that the capacity of Ahus is challenged and that they have problems with Corridor Asians. According to Health South-East, the situation at Aarhus is primarily a consequence of seasonal viral infections and increased influenza activity. The other health establishments in the region report similar challenges. This is therefore a challenge not only for Aarhus, but for several health businesses in the region — at this time of the year. For Aarhus, however, the situation is extra demanding because they have many new employees who need extensive training in systems, procedures and equipment. In order to remedy the situation of Aarhus in a transitional phase, Health South-East must make appropriate use of the overall capacity of health establishments in the region. I have asked Health South-East to monitor and report specifically the development of Aarhus, both in terms of the number of patients admitted and the number of Corridor Asians. That is why I have received such reports every day. Position in the corridor is not acceptable, and there should not normally be patients located on the corridor, as I also point out in the mission document. For most patients, therefore, placement in the corridor will be a short-term solution while the patient is waiting for the regular bed area to become available. I am aware that Ahus has taken action to avoid Corridor Asians, among others. by ensuring a more even distribution of patients across the different bed areas. In addition, Health South-East will ensure that all healthcare businesses in the region routinely make medical professional judgements as to which patients can be briefly placed in the corridor, pending normal beds. I am also aware that the Health Authority in Oslo and Akershus is closely following the situation at Aarhus. The consideration of patients and the quality of patient treatment is the most important thing, we agree on that. Health South-East reports that the incidence of patients with seasonal diseases has recently been somewhat lower, including in Aarhus. Despite a large proportion of seasonal diseases, Health South-East has assured them that they will follow the situation so that the population of the metropolitan area can be confident that they have access to a sound and good service provision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1133	In the interpellation debate on this as Stortinget held on 12 October last, bearing in mind that the undersigned were concerned that the Minister for Health did not have sufficient quality assurance and follow-up to the processes to be carried out, the Minister for Health replied: ‘However, regardless of these challenges, Health South-East has assured me that no patients will be transferred from Oslo University Hospital to Aarhus until there is certainty that patients will receive at least an equally good service offer from Aarhus.’ Does the Minister of Health feel that the situations described by Ahus satisfy the criterion that the Minister of Health then withdrew and that the Stortinge agreed, namely that it would not be transferred to patients until it was certain that the patients would receive at least as good a service at Ahus as what they had before the process started?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1143	It has of course been the starting point that they should have an equally good offer. Then I have also tried in my answer to say that there has been increased activity of influenza. You also have to take that into account this time of year, it's not just for this year. But this has been the situation in all the hospitals. All hospitals have the same attendance. Not least on the basis of the media releases that came well a week ago, we have followed this situation very closely – had daily contact with Health South-East, received daily reports of Corridor Asians, asked for the use of the free beds that, after all, have been in the hospital. It may be that things could have been done better, but it has been important that those who have remained in the corridor, perhaps because they have come in late in the day, have not been lying down longer than what has been proper. Then I would also say, as I said, and as we are familiar with, that the Health Authority is also closely following this situation. It will be easier to evaluate the situation in retrospect.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1150	The county doctor said on TV 2 yesterday that he was concerned about the situation and demanded daily reports from Aarhus. There have been examples of patients receiving a treatment that I do not think is satisfactory. We see that Aarhus is now very dependent on temporary employees, employees who are necessarily not well-informed in the routines of the individual department, and to pick up personnel from other hospitals, including office staff from their own businesses, into the healthcare system. We know that exactly that kind of organisational challenges create uncertainty about the quality of services. Does the Minister of Health and Health now feel that she has a good enough overview of this process and that Health South-East is in control of this, which can in many ways be described as the largest reorganisation in the healthcare system that directly affects patients?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1159	It's the way Health South-East sees their hospitals in the context in order to provide the same safe offer to the patients in the region. It's working very actively. The health workforce, both at Aarhus and at other hospitals in the Oslo region, is now around the clock to help patients, because there is a special situation. There have been a lot of instant help insertions, not least on the basis of influenza. Last year, the influenza epidemic was on the way back. This year it has been very strong. I believe that of course there is something that you have to be able to take into account. But there is no doubt that there has been a situation where the patient base has increased to Ahus. Still, we're following the situation, and it's very reassuring that the Health Authority is following the situation in Aarhus, because it's supposed to be the way patients should be in safe hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1171	The question to the Minister for Health is: «The case of the little boy who has the disease APVS has been causing strong reactions for a long time. The parents of the boy have long claimed that a treatment method in the United States will give him the best offer. Nevertheless, the family is denied reimbursement for the treatment that can help this little boy. Why does the Council of State not change the legislation so that the boy gets help, and what does one really have to lose in this matter trying to treat in the United States?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1180	Discussion of medical treatment services for a small child with a serious illness from the Stockholm pulpit is demanding, primarily for the child, but also for the parents and health professionals who take decisions in line with the decision of the Stortinget. As Minister of Health and Health, I cannot intervene or comment on professional assessments by a hospital or a regional health company in the handling of individual cases. The Patient Rights Act § 2-1, fifth paragraph specifies the conditions under which a patient is entitled to treatment abroad. It is held, among other things: the severity of the condition, the expected benefit of the treatment, the cost of the treatment must be proportionate to the benefits of the treatment and the absence of an adapted medical treatment offer in Norway. The professional assessment in the individual case of entitlement to treatment abroad and, where appropriate, the duration of treatment and follow-up is the responsibility of the regional health undertaking. Decisions on applications for treatment abroad may be appealed against to a separate complaint board for treatment abroad. The decision of the Judge is final, but may be referred to the courts in the usual manner. The then Ministry of Social Affairs and Health was the complaint body for individual cases before the complaint topic was established in 1999. Experience has shown that some complaints were raised through a lawyer and that the complaint scheme could favour the most resource-intensive. The establishment of a judicial appeal body for appeals against decisions on applications for treatment abroad was based on the principle of legal certainty and non-discrimination. A unanimous rise joined the proposal. I do not want to go back to the previous model where the department was the complaint body. Such a scheme has a number of fundamental weaknesses and conflicts with my responsibility for the exercise of sectoral policies in the responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. An appeal body which cannot be audited by the administration is the best guarantee of non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1191	The Council of State says that it is demanding to deal with individual cases in Stortinget. Yes, it is demanding for parents to also get in touch and dialogue with the Council of State. There is some reason why the cases come here to this hall. Because it's hard for people to get in touch with senior health officials. Earlier today, in reply to the representative, Laila Marie Reiertsen, the Council of State said that, of course, it should not be on the economy for proper treatment. Jonas' heart failure is very special, and it's complicated. He is one of three known cases throughout the world that have this disease, and the main heart defect, the APVS, is just part of the disease image. There are only a few children born with APVS in Norway, and several of them are now dead. Doctors in the United States say it's urgent to give Jonas help. Why doesn't Jonas get the best medical help? Here it's actually about living or not living, and not least about the quality of life of a family and a very sick child. I will continue to challenge the Council of State: Why can't the Council of State at least look at the possibility of having a dialogue, to get some of the issues that the family is experiencing when you're not being taken seriously in the health sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1200	I don't know, but it's possible that these parents have written me a letter. I am trying both to read these and to answer all those who address me to my office, and there are many. Clearly, many individual creatures are difficult and heartbreaking. I have no problem at all in understanding desperate parents who are fighting for their son. But at the same time, the question here is not about the individual case. That's really why I don't want to change the system. I don't think you had good experience with the system before. That's exactly why it was changed. You always have to be awake to be able to change again if there's good reason for that. But the fact that you have medical responsibilities that go through the matter again and again must be more reassuring than that it should be up to politicians who are in the department or at the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1207	I think it's good that there are also medical reasons why you do what you do, but it's not like in Norway you have the highest level of competence in all areas. I might think you don't have that in Norway. You might also want to listen to advice from foreign experts, who say that it is actually possible to help. When it comes to attempts from that family to enter into dialogue with the Council of State, it has been tried – I think – by letter, and they have tried to meet on the outside of the Ministry of Health, but there has been an incredible wall to enter into dialogue with the Council of State. That is why we are now being asked to address the kind of issues here in this room, because it is difficult to get in touch with those who are most responsible, and those who can actually make decisions that allow families and children to receive treatment abroad as well. It's a very rigid system, and there's a lot of health companies that are very critical to provide that kind of treatment, because it goes into the budgets of the different companies. That is what this matter is all about. I really hope that the Council of State will go into the matter and see if you can provide the help the family has a right to and should get.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1216	It is right, as the representative Hoksrud says, that we do not have the best skills in Norway in all areas. This is precisely why Norwegian hospitals and Norwegian specialists also use to refer to other countries if they believe that a better offer can be made here. This should always be clear, because it is clear that the concern for the individual patient must come first, but those assessments – again – must be made by the responsible treating physician. When it comes to the question of whether I want to change the system, I actually believe that the way you have it today, where there is a name where you can complain about the decision, and you also have the right to get other opinions and studies, is important, and it's going to take care of patients in a good way. But it is clear that I am concerned that the patient should receive the best treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1223	Question 10 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1248	The questions are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1255	I have the following questions for the Minister of Research and Higher Education: «Many travel abroad to study medicine. Some of these want to complete the studies here at home for different reasons. Feedbacks show that these meet a system that is not responding. The answer is that there are no free places to enter, for example: 3rd or 4th year, even though we know that students leave the studies along the way. The required competence is not completed and resource people become clients. Will the Council of State engage in dialogue with universities in order to establish a system for filling up vacancies?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1264	My starting point will always be to offer as many people as possible the training they want. It is important both for each individual and for society. The government has also set up many new study places in recent years. With regard to admission to the third or fourth year of study in medicine, as the representative asks, I would first like to clarify the following: It is the institutions that assess whether students who have taken previous years of study abroad are to be admitted to Norwegian educational institutions. This is a professional assessment carried out by the institutions which the Ministry of Knowledge cannot oversee. The experience of institutions shows that medical syllabus are so different from country to country that it is professionally difficult to accept students from abroad in the middle of the course. In addition, medical faculties in Norway experience many more qualified applicants than study places each year, and very few students fall from the studies. For this reason, there are few available places to study, for example. 3rd and 4th years of medicine in Norway. Together, this provides a situation where it is not appropriate for our institutions to organise a shortened course of study for Norwegian students who have studied partial medicine abroad. It is also generally common for institutions to ‘overbook’ the recording because some fall from in-flight. There may often be some lower capacity in the study later than at start-up, so that there is no free space at all. I also want to add that those taking training abroad at an earlier stage have often not reached the competition for the study places at the Norwegian institutions. I think it is right to give priority to the resources in relation to those that have been raised through the ordinary recording. As I said at the outset, I want to facilitate that as much as possible higher education, but medical education is cost-intensive, and that is so that not everyone gets to study exactly what they want, and where they want.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1277	I thank you for the answer, which I was so prepared for would be just like that. I have not asked questions about whether we should go in and review the professional evaluation. Of course, it's going to be at the universities. What we're talking about here is having a system that uses the possibilities that are where there are free holes. And there are free holes. I have several issues in which it has been fully documented that students have left the study. There are vacancies, and so there are others who want to go in, but the university says no – that's not how we do it in Norway. We don't have a system to keep track of it, so here you just have to apply for ordinary recording from the beginning. Does the Council of State really think that is a good way to use resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1284	It might be that you get a little different feedback on such questions. The Ministry also has a continuous overview of what the representative here asks about, namely that there are people who fall from the road. I want to make it clear that there are very few people in the medical school who fall from it, because it's attractive, and because it's hard to get in. In addition, it is often that even if it should fall from a few en route, it does not necessarily mean that there is free capacity to pick up more, because, as I said in my post, you often have the overbooked – that is, you have taken in a little more than what you were supposed to. I would like to reiterate that we will give priority to those students who have actually entered these studies in Norway. The situation is also that there will be fairly good coverage of doctors in the years to come, and therefore it is not one of those studies where there is a very great need to have more education than the ones we are able to train in Norway, and those who usually conduct their studies abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1291	I am surprised that the Council of State can afford to let potential students escape. I'll give you an example: Geir. He is one of several who has approached me. He's a trained physiotherapist and a medical consultant, and he started the medical study, and for various reasons he would take it abroad. But after three years he wanted to go home again. So there he met this system where it says there was no room for him. This means that after a while the student loan started counting, the scholarship was converted into a loan, and he had to take several jobs to pay for it and became mentally worn out. He ended up in the Nav system. He's been working all the time to get into the fourth year of medical school, but he's totally rejected. Today he is offered re-schooling through Nav. So he can get a full, new education through Nav, but we can't help him in to finish the medical study by taking him in in the fourth year, where there are vacancies, and where the competence is approved. Can the Councils defend it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1300	I believe that the representative has great respect for the fact that the representative and the Council of State cannot discuss individual matters here from the Chair of the Stortinge. We are talking about a system that would, if necessary, prevent the very situation the representative is dealing with, and that is what I am dealing with. It is also the case that the feedback I have received shows that there are quite few of them. It is quite difficult to use places that may be available to fill up with students who have taken part of their studies abroad. So I'll stick to my starting point. Of course, we need good people with medical skills, who are educated both in Norway and abroad, but there is a justice and a reasonableness in the system we have, which prioritises those who have initially entered Norwegian universities. But as a nation that needs health professionals, we also accept those who have studied abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1309	The size now goes to question 1.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1316	This question, from the representative Henning Warloe to the Minister of Knowledge, will be answered by the Minister of Research and Higher Education on behalf of the Minister of Knowledge, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1319	The question is: ‘Bergen Handelsgymnasium, BHG, has an ongoing study-specific training programme organised as a two-year offer. Hordaland County now wants to transform the pilot scheme into a permanent offer. The Education Directorate has, by letter of 3 January of this year, rejected the application, with reference to the need to amend the Training Act. The experiment has been evaluated with good results from the University of Bergen. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the BHG offer can be continued?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1328	The two-year study-specific training programme was launched at Bergen Handelsgymnasium in the autumn of 2009, and the experiment is now in its second school year. The experiment is scheduled to last for three years, i.e. until summer 2012. It is true, as the representative says, that a permanent system of two-year study-specific education programmes will require regulatory changes, including changes in the supply structure of secondary education. In Hordaland County Municipalities’ application to offer the two-year term permanently refers to an en route evaluation of the May 2010 experiment, based on less than one year’s experience. The purpose of the report was mainly to summarise some of the results of the first coal year of the two-year course and to contribute to raising the quality of the construction of the new coal that started in the autumn 2010. The report concludes, inter alia, that: that it is difficult to say something specific about the need for the offer and that it is too early to say whether the model being tested is well suited to meet the needs of this student group. It is desirable to test different pedagogical models, and the Minister of Knowledge is pleased that the county council is now conducting trials on two-year study-specific education programmes. It is premature to assess whether the offer should become national after only one year’s experience with the experiment. A prerequisite for the experiment to be started was that it should last for three years and be evaluated externally after the end of the trial period. When the final evaluation is available, the Minister of Knowledge will assess whether the legislation should open up to two-year study-specific training programmes. Hordaland County primarily sought to provide a firm offer for a two-year study-specific education programme. This has been rejected by the Education Directorate on the grounds that such a permanent scheme will require legislative changes. Secondaryly, the county requested the extension of the experimental period so that new students can be admitted to the two-year period in the autumn of 2011. In the event of incurrence, the question of extending the trial is not dealt with by the directorate. The Minister of Knowledge has been in contact with the Directorate, who will now decide on the issue. Responses to the application — i.e. the secondary application — to extend the procedure will be available from the directorate over the next two weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1339	I thank you for the answer, and I thank the Council of State for responding in the absence of the Minister of Knowledge. This is to be seen as a kind of handshake to Hordaland County Municipality and Bergen Handelsgymnasium in order to gain further experience in this experiment. Of course, I fully agree that it is very short time to make up some final opinion about this attempt. This is precisely why an extension is a positive position in this way. I still want to ask the State Council if that's how to understand, because several of us have responded, that the Education Directorate perceives it so that students who themselves want to take a two-year run cannot get the right they have on a three-year run if this is not working for the students. There seems to be a somewhat strict interpretation of the legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1346	It is precisely because these attempts challenge legislation that we need both a little longer time for the trials and a more thorough evaluation than the report we have so far received. For such a department it assesses, the report that has arrived after a short period of time does not provide the basis for concluding with anything. The Directorate of Education now examines the application to extend the experiment. And then we have to get an evaluation that can give us some guidance in case this is going to be done permanently, because then a rule change is needed, and then, of course, the issue of rights will also be addressed in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1351	Yes, because it is precisely the question of the rights to three-year training that has been used as an argument for the refusal. I find it difficult to see that the training law – the right to three years of secondary education – would make it impossible to choose a two-year course yourself, if you can do it, of course. There is a right to three-year training, but of course there is no obligation to do so in three years. I would like to conclude by saying that I believe that Bergen Handelsgymnasium has done a very good job developing this offer. That is also stated in the report. It is new work, and it is very important that we gain further experience in an offer that is primarily for students with additional motivation – extra willingness to work hard – because it is probably something we need in Norwegian school too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1358	There is quite a lot of extensive and long experience behind the three-year course we have today in higher education. It is clear that this is an offer for those who are extra motivated and who are extra interested in doing so in a shorter time. But it turned out that of those who started this two-year course in the autumn of 2009, quite a few have stopped along the way – a very high drop-out rate – because they chose to take it a little more easy to secure good grades and thus use the ordinary, three-year run. So I'm convinced that there are good reasons behind the legislation we have now, but we've wanted to initiate these trials, and we want to implement them and look at when we evaluate them properly, what we can do in case there are any changes in the follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1367	‘The grazing conflict between the reindeer industry and farmers is now completely out of control. In the past, there have been Finnmarks who have had the biggest problems with cleaning on the farmland. Now the grazing conflict has also spread to many municipalities in Troms and Nordland. Peasants fear the consequences of the cleanness of their livelihoods. What will the Council of State do to help farmers against the illegalities that are growing and threaten the future of the agricultural industry in many municipalities in North Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1374	The Sami reindeer industry is a nomadic industry of over 40 p.p. of the land area of Norway. It is an indigenous industry with very long traditions in Scandinavia. With such widespread and high area needs, there will be intermittent conflicts with other industries and other social interests. However, today’s challenges are greater than in the past. On the one hand, there is an increased need for land in other areas of society, such as: the development of public infrastructure and recreational dwellings. But in some areas, mainly in parts of Finnmark, it is also due to too high a reindeer today. In all cases, the challenge is to limit such conflicts, so that the reindeer industry can live side by side with other types of activity without significant conflicts. To get there, many actors have a responsibility in both private and public activities. It is necessary to establish that the reindeer does not have the right to graze on the land. However, as the representative of Tåldal pointed out, grazing conflicts between the reindeer industry and farmers are sometimes a problem. However, I do not share the representative's view that these conflicts today have such an extent that it threatens the future of agriculture in many municipalities in North Norway. It is important to distinguish between sporadic conflicts where there are few clean entering the land and where there are frequent conflicts with many cleanly involved. The responsibilities of the authorities will vary according to the severity of the conflicts. There are not all types of conflicts that may or should be addressed by the authorities. Here it must be assumed that the two industries themselves are able to resolve the conflicts, which requires the goodwill of both parties. In such situations, there is also an opportunity to seek funds for conflict prevention, as many are already using it. Where the conflicts are of greater scope, the Reinhårtstyrelsen or the Landestyrelsen could, on the basis of a public interest, oblige the reindeer management to expel its flock from the area in question and use instruments such as: periodic penalty payment if the imposed is not complied with. In my opinion, Finnmark has over time had the biggest problems associated with clean land. This includes, among other things: in some areas, the county has carried out its own processes. I mention Alta in that context. Furthermore, some municipalities have been active in getting closer dialogue and understanding between reindeer and other social actors. In some of these areas, it is also necessary, for several reasons, to reduce the purity, also with a view to reducing the potential for agricultural conflicts. In this respect, I would like to point out that we are now in a very crucial phase in the process of getting the reindeer down to a sustainable level. There is active work in progress and during 2011 all districts shall have approved usage rules. When these are available, as opposed to the previous reindeer law, more effective tools will be available to tackle the problem of overindebtedness. This also applies to the implementation of possible penalties. In Troms weather conditions have resulted in this year being more clean in the field than before. This is where active efforts are being made by the county council, the reindeer management and some of the municipalities concerned to resolve the conflicts. In the case of Northern Ireland, this year I have been aware of no greater conflicts than before. Reindeer and farmers are here most often in direct dialogue when it comes clean in the inland. Where necessary, the reindeer management and the relevant municipalities participate in meetings. As long as reindeer and agriculture are carried out in the same areas, the likelihood of clean entry into the land will be present. The challenge will be to minimise the problems. In the light of experience, I would like to reiterate the need for good dialogue, and not least the use of prevention measures. It is also essential that municipalities participate with the parties and the reindeer management if, in spite of this, it is difficult to resolve the conflicts. The aim will be to have a common understanding of what the challenge is, what actions can be used, and to improve contact and dialogue between the parties. The likelihood of conflicts is reduced when the dialogue is good. This applies not only to the relationship between agriculture and reindeer management, but to all areas of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1402	I must say with all due respect that I feel a little strange to hear the council say that the problem is not as big as it is. He also says it's not in Northernland. Then I would recommend the Council of State to travel a little bit around the country in the north and talk to the farmers, and perhaps start reading the newspapers. I have found eight first-page essays that have gone on such conflicts in North Norway. One can read in the nations on December 13: «Millions destroyed». And then it says, ‘The sheer herrings of the herring may result in the abandonment of several dairy farms in Sirma in eastern Finland.’ In other words, we are on our way to end use, but the Council of State believes that this is nothing to be taken over. So my question to the state council, which has proved to be the best friend of the predators, and who are involved in shutting down sheep farming, is: will you be doing it so that we don't put down all the agriculture in North Norway, which we're about to do now?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1421	The President would point out that all questions should be asked via the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1424	First of all, I just want to stress what I said in the introduction to my post, that the challenges are overall bigger today than before for different reasons. The main reason for this is the increase in land use in other areas of society. It goes on infrastructure and recreational homes, and it is also the case that the reindeer number is too high in some areas. Let it be clear that I agree with the representative of Träldal's description that there are bigger problems than before. But then, too, problems vary slightly from one country to another, and the situation of the individual areas. That's what I tried to describe in my first answer. With regard to the situation and the general description, it is important to stress that there have been conflicts between reindeer farming and agriculture for over a hundred years. It shows an innumerable court decisions, so there's nothing new. All the time, the point is to work to reduce these conflicts, create more dialogue, and thus reduce the problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1431	The difference between what the Progress Party thinks, and what the Council of State thinks, is that there have been conflicts for hundreds of years. So you don't have to do anything about it. So to another type of conflict. Lenvik municipality, a small municipality in Troms, has now had so many problems with invasion of clean that they have to spend millions of dollars to build fences around their waterworks because of contamination, as the Food Authority has shown. This means giving priority to schools, kindergartens and care for the elderly in a small municipality, where government policies have already led to excessive funding. My question to the Council of State is two-fold: Will the Council of State, which is responsible for the reindeer industry that has invaded Lenvik, go into and take up this challenge in the City of Lenvik and cover the costs of reindeer, or does the municipality itself have to take them?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1440	I am very concerned about reducing conflicts between different grazing industries that we have now talked about, and that is the content of the question. There we have opportunities to work in cooperation with the county council and the reindeer management. It is done in different counties and in different municipalities. We have started conflict prevention work on fence construction and reduced sample sizes to put in place better schemes. I am concerned that we are working with industries, both agriculture and agriculture and reindeer farming, because I believe that dialogue is better than conflict all the time. So that's why I've been directly involved in several places, including, in Alta. With regard to the matter described by the representative of Träldal in the municipality of Lenvik in Troms, about sanitation in relation to waterworks and the challenges involved, I do not know that matter directly, so I have to get into it. We will, of course, deal with this matter in accordance with the current legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1453	This question, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for Economic Affairs who is directing the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1456	I have the following questions for the Minister of Industry: ‘There is now a debate on which approval is needed in order to be able to carry the fish/cargo of other vessels. The debate has now come up again after Norway’s Silver Sale Team has briefed pelagic shipowners that if one is to transport fish, it is either a locked catch or for example. cutting, this must be done by authorised cargo ships, even if the same fishing boats are approved and classed in order to carry their own fish. Does the Council of State consider this to be a sensible piece of legislation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1465	The representative of Nesvik raises the question of the approval needed to be able to carry the fish or cargo of other vessels, and asks whether the legislation in force is appropriate. First, I would like to stress that the use of different types of vessels is regulated by an international legislation that Norway has committed itself to comply with, which means a limited space for action at national level. The structure of the legislation is such that it imposes technical and operational requirements, depending on the type of activity to be carried out by the ship. For fishing vessels, specific rules have been developed to ensure the purpose of the use, namely to fish and then transport it to a reception facility. In the case of cargo ships, separate requirements, including for loading and stability, have been developed to ensure the safety of cargo carrying. A vessel certified only as a fishing and catching vessel may not be used for purposes other than fishing and fishing. Similarly, a vessel certified only as a cargo ship may not be used for fishing. This understanding of the legislation is also practised by the authorities of neighbouring countries engaged in fishing activities. Transport of fish or fish cuttings by transhipment from other fishing vessels requires certification as a cargo ship. Derogations from the general rule apply to fish taken over free of charge, which are considered as own catches when the vessel to which the catch has been caught does not have the capacity to carry on board the entire catch itself. In addition, derogations shall apply to vessels which have approved a permit to purchase from the Directorate of Fisheries for on-board production and which are included in the first placing on the market. Although fishing and catching vessels may seem technically fit to be used, inter alia: the transport of fish or pruning is the activity for which a fishing and catching vessel is not authorised and certified. However, if the company so wishes, a double authorisation may be applied for, i.e. certified as both fishing and catching vessels and cargo ships. This means, in that case, that there are a number of other regulatory requirements to be satisfied in order to ensure maritime safety. In view of some uncertainty in the industry regarding the current legislation, the Directorate for Maritime Affairs sent out an information letter to the industry at the beginning of January of this year. Here, the Directorate for Maritime Affairs describes the additional requirements applicable to fishing and catching vessels to be certified as cargo ships. During a transitional period – until sufficient capacity exists in the cargo industry – fishing vessels are given the opportunity to carry fish cargo. In that case, a dispensation request must be submitted to the Maritime Directorate as to why a fishing vessel is requested to be used for carrying cargo, and it must be demonstrated that there is no free capacity in the cargo industry to carry the cargo. In my opinion, there should now be no doubt as to what requirements apply to the carrying of other boat's fish or cargo. As I have explained, there are also several regulatory mechanisms that allow the need for transport and safety requirements to be properly addressed, as the Directorate has suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1488	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The question here is in many ways how rigid the legislation should be and where the limit goes for what is to be complied with. What's special is that the boundary of the Maritime Directorate here is related to whether it's for commercial purposes or for your own business, that's that you get paid for it. If it had been a matter of safety, I don't think anyone had asked questions at all. In connection with, inter alia: interception has been said that it may be due to gases etc., but that is not what this case is about. This issue concerns the location of the border and the extent to which exemption from the legislation can be granted. Now, practice has shown that there is actually a rather rigid code, precisely because the search processes take time. My question is: will the Council of State contact the Maritime Directorate and ensure that the general rule is to grant a derogation, so that this system can be put in place?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1499	We have been in contact with the Directorate for the preparation of this answer, among other things, and have not least informed us that the Directorate for Maritime Affairs informs the industry in a good way. The dispensation is linked to the fact that there is no available capacity in the cargo ship industry. I guess that's the most important factor. And so it is that if you want to use a boat on a permanent basis both for fishing and for catching and transporting cargo, it is entirely possible for the company to apply for approval for both parts. It is then necessary to complete the exact same round as normal cargo ships, according to safety requirements, etc. I think it is the right approach that if you want to use a fishing and catching boat for permanent cargo operations, you have to use the same requirements as other cargo ships.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1504	I'm a little surprised at the answer to the Council of State right here. If you have a snorkeler, it's authorized to carry your own fish. In some situations, there is such a big throw that there is a need, among other things. to lock the catch. If you carry this by yourself, you can call another boat that comes and helps to catch that catch. Then you don't get the money to do that, then it's okay. But if you have to lock the catch, and another boat has to come later and pick up the catch, you are not actually allowed to do that. Then you have to invoke a wellboat. It must also be regarded by the Council of State as relatively pointless, but obviously the Council of State does not. There was a situation for a while back, with the boat «Knester», where this exemption was not granted to carry another man’s fish, even if this fish was to go to a breeding plant. Will the Council of State at least ensure that the processing time for these waiver applications takes a very short time, so that the fish do not get poorer quality?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1511	I believe that the general legislation we have, with the distinction between cargo boats and fishing boats, which is also reflected in international legislation and neighbouring country legislation, is a sensible piece of legislation, because there are other criteria for a good fishing boat than for a good cargo boat. So it is that there are – as also the questioner describes – situations where you want flexibility, want to find practical solutions, and I believe that the legislation also opens up. Then I agree that in all kinds of legislation we should show flexibility. We should adopt an approach that is designed for them to serve, while, in a way, adapting to the general arrangements. I assume that the Maritime Directorate will succeed, and I also expect you to do that. Managing legislation in a healthy and sensible way is nice to combine with getting up for the system – which is so popular in our days.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-19.ana.ud2356e1520	That being the case, it is no. 2 completed. Case No. 3, Unit, has already been processed. The President assumes that the last representative who is left in the Chamber does not request the floor before the sitting is cancelled. - The meeting's been cancelled.
