ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e128	Five permit applications are available: by the representatives of Ingrid Heggø and Øyvind, on leave on 29 and 30 March, both to attend the Nordic Council of the Interparliamentary Union in Helsinki of the Workers' Party Group on the leave of the representative of Sonja Mandt from 29 March to 31 March and of the representatives of Tone Merete Sønsterud and Gorm Kjernli from 30 and 31 March, all to attend meetings of the Nordic Council of Stockholm; Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Hedmark County, Farahnaz Bahrami, there is an application to be exempted from meeting under the leave of the representative, Tone Merete Sønsterud, because of illness. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the period of leave: For Akershus County: Anita Orlund for Wednesday 30 March For Hedmark County: Ivar Skulstad for Wednesday 30 March For Rogaland County: Terje Halleland for the days 29 and 30 March For Sogn and Fjordane counties: Sonja Edvardsen for the days 29 and 30 March For Vestfold County: Heidi Ørnlo for the days 29 and 30 March
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e194	Terje Halleland, Sonja Edvardsen and Heidi Ørnlo are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e206	Norway participates in military operations to enforce the UN Security Council Resolution 1973 on the arms embargo, the grounding zone and the protection of civilians in Libya. Our F-16 planes have been on their wings since Thursday, and about 120 women and men from Defense are deployed in Crete to support the operation. The sanctions imposed against Libya in the United Nations Security Council have been implemented in Norwegian law. The EU is working on further strengthening the sanctions regime. We've contributed 50 million. kr to remedy the dramatic humanitarian situation as a result of the large flow of refugees, and we are continually considering further measures. Today, the Foreign Minister in London is discussing the political challenges of the Libyan crisis and ensuring a political superstructure between the countries participating in the broad coalition. In other words, Norway participates in the implementation of all parts of the resolutions adopted by the UN Security Council on the crisis in Libya — political, humanitarian, economic and military. Our commitment builds up under a long line in Norwegian foreign policy, namely the support for a United Nations-led world order in which the use of power is regulated by the United Nations Charter and decisions of the United Nations Security Council. The purpose of the use of power is clearly expressed in the decision of the Security Council: it concerns the protection of civilians. The resolution opens up the use of ‘all necessary means’ to protect the civilian population. For the first time, the Security Council refers to the principle of ‘responsibilities for protection’ in relation to the use of power. It is not a country's internal affairs when there is such a massive assault on the civilian population. The decision is therefore historic. At the same time, it is important to stress that the comprehensive armed violation of the Gaddafi regime against the Libyan people and the open conflict between the regime and the opposition have placed the world community at a very difficult task: how do we succeed in protecting civilians while at the same time contributing to a political and peaceful solution? The resolution excludes the use of foreign occupying forces on Libyan territory. With this one reservation, the Libyan decision legitimises a very wide range of instruments. But even these vast powers do not guarantee a quick solution. We need to be aware that it can be a long and demanding operation. The use of military power does not itself lead to a political solution to the complex conflicts in Libya. Yes, a military intervention can in itself make such conflicts deeper. There must therefore be a very high threshold for the use of military power in international relations. In the case of Libya, the world society faced several far from perfect alternatives to action. The clear worst of all options would not be to act. The Security Council had extensive information that an emergency situation for the civilian population of Libya was under development. The world witnessed an authoritarian ruler who met peaceful protests with sharp shots and heavy shooting. The situation evolved toward a civil war. Colonel Gaddafi clearly stated that his intention was to crush the opposition, and that there would be no mercy. The regime's superior military power had reached the suburbs of Libya's second largest city, Benghazi, which had become the main base of rebellion. The decision of the Security Council and the resolute application of military power have probably prevented massive violations against civilians. Norway commends the UN Security Council for taking responsibility. It is gratifying that the Council is able to take such a comprehensive decision without any opposition to any of the acts of veto, and without any of the members of the Council voting against it. At a time when questions are asked about the effectiveness and ability of the UN institutions to make difficult decisions, it is very positive that the United Nations has demonstrated its power of action in Libya. It reaffirms the very central role of the United Nations in maintaining international peace and security. Norway warned against believing that a banned zone in itself would resolve the Libyan conflicts. We worked for unifying solutions that would combine the use of military power with clear leadership to find a political and humanitarian solution to the conflict. Our main objectives were well served in the Security Council resolution. That is why Norway gave immediate support to the resolution late in the evening of 17 March. Two days later, during the Paris Summit with wide participation of interested countries and organisations, I announced that Norway was ready to contribute to the implementation of military operations to protect civilians. The mood at the meeting in Paris was marked by the fact that it was about hours. If Gaddafi's forces had succeeded in moving into Benghazi, there was little that could be achieved with air power. The attack on Benghazi had to be stopped, while there was yet time. The consequences of not acting could be disastrous for the civilian population. Following the Paris Summit, Norway took part in the discussions in the inner circle of States responsible for implementing the resolution. Norway should be able to recognise when the UN undertakes demanding tasks, we participate and take our share of responsibility. Norwegian aircraft operate these days from the same base as fighter aircraft from Qatar. The clear support from Arab and African countries was essential for the decision of the UN Security Council. The Arab League stated in very clear order that it wanted international involvement and the introduction of an air ban zone. The three African countries in the Security Council voted in favour of the resolution. The coalition of countries supporting implementation has grown wider and now includes a number of countries from the region. So the coalition is wide. The military command to ensure the execution of the military operations must, on its side, be pointed, clear, clear and competent to coordinate such a complex task. The assumptions we have made regarding command and control systems for Norwegian military participation are well taken care of. We have full control of the use of Norwegian military forces. Norwegian law and international obligations are used as the basis for operations by Norwegian forces, and our personnel are under Norwegian jurisdiction. Our fighter aircraft are initially part of the U.S.-led operation Odyssey Dawn. Following NATO's decision on Sunday evening, Norwegian fighter aircraft will tomorrow be subject to NATO's established and proven command structure. NATO will thus have the primary responsibility for all parts of the military operations to implement the Security Council’s decisions. In a political sense, the coalition remains as broad as before. NATO's efforts will be part of broad international cooperation to follow up all aspects of the Security Council's decisions. It is important for the military operation that it enjoys broad support among Libya's neighbours. From the Norwegian side, we have used our network in the Middle East and Africa for continuous contact with the Arab League, the African Union and the countries of the region. Meetings in London today are important for discussing the current situation on the ground, further follow-up to the UN Security Council decision and possible policy solutions. It is also important to put in place a political superstructure to ensure the overall follow-up and coordination of international engagement in Libya. It is undoubtedly linked to the use of military power from Western states in an Arab country. The strong popular reaction to the Iraqi invasion is still alive in the Arab world. The coalition responsible for implementing the 1973 Security Council Resolution is much wider and currently has good support in the region. We notice that the operations are welcomed by people in the Arab world. This is understandable because the purpose of the resolution is to help protect civilians from the behaviour of a brutal dictator — and it is in a historic time when the people of countries in the region are rising against unruly leaders and calling for respect for democracy and universal human rights. This is the background step for today's drama in Libya: the wave of popular uprisings and changes that are raging through the Arab world. In Tunisia and Egypt authoritarian leaders went off to meet popular uprisings. The army chose to take sides with the people. The countries have started on the demanding path towards democracy, the rule of law and human rights, and we must do what we can to support them. In other countries in the region, popular protests are defeated by brutal violence, as in Syria and Bahrain. In Yemen, support for a president who has been with all his power for decades is fading. In Saudi Arabia and several other Arab countries, political and social reforms are increasingly being addressed. We condemn violence and demand peaceful solutions through political dialogue and democratic reform. We haven't seen the end of the drama that's now happening in the Arab world. When history is written, it is our hope that the events of 2011 will stand out as the Arab world parallel to the dramatic revolutions in Europe in 1989. In its Resolution 1970, the Security Council unanimously asked the International Criminal Court to launch investigations in Libya for possible crimes against humanity in the light of the regime's violations. The Criminal Court has commenced its initial work and shall report back to the Security Council by the end of April. Large parts of the international community say that Colonel Gaddafi, who uses military power against his people, has lost his legitimacy as leader, and that he should step back. Norway shares this view. The humanitarian situation in Libya is very serious. With continued armed conflict and civil war conditions, we are at risk of further deterioration. Here the international community has a responsibility because the goal of our commitment is precisely to protect civilians. International relief organisations still do not have access in government-controlled parts of the country, making it very difficult to reach people in need of help. Refusal of such access is, in addition, a gross violation of humanitarian law. There are also challenges in areas controlled by the insurgents, and the ongoing fighting actions have made it even more difficult to reach people in distress. Nearly 400,000 people – most third-country nationals – have fled Libya. More than 75 000 people have already been helped back to their homeland. We have to expect the refugee flow out of Libya to continue as long as the fighting continues. Norway’s contribution of 50 million. kr goes to those in need in border areas, to evacuation of third-country nationals, to medical emergency aid and other humanitarian assistance. Norway is working towards a higher priority for action in the humanitarian field, and there is an urgent need to do so. It concerns humanitarian access, respect for humanitarian principles and the mobilisation of political and financial support for necessary humanitarian efforts. I am pleased that the European Union has made such a strong commitment in the humanitarian field. This is also important to keep the coalition together. Humanitarian objectives are central to the decisions of the Security Council and were important for the conclusion of the resolution. It is a requirement that both parties to the armed conflict fully respect humanitarian law and human rights. As is often the case in conflict and crisis situations, women and children are disproportionately affected. Chaotic situations with people on the run make women particularly vulnerable, including for systematic sexual assault. It is very important that, in our humanitarian efforts, we meet the specific needs of women and children. We need to focus increasingly on the political processes. The African Union held this high on its agenda during its meetings in Addis Ababa last week, which included Norway. Norway supports the Union's work on a political process that respects the hopes of democracy of the Libyan people and holds Libya together. The Arab League is also engaged. In Norwegian terms, it is essential that these regional organisations and Libyan neighbours take on a leading responsibility. The international community must work towards the establishment of a truce, the withdrawal of military forces, the opening of humanitarian aid organisations and the launch of a policy process for reconciliation and major reforms. It is the Libyans themselves who are responsible for the political development of Libya. Political solutions for Libya must be anchored in Libya. Libya is a society of tribes and regional contradictions. But the different parts of Libyan society have in common that they should find their future within Libya. A negotiation process must have this in perspective. It must therefore be inclusive. The longer the acts of war are going on, the worse the prospects for lasting stability and peace are. A long-standing state of civil war or a move towards a state collapse would be very negative for the civilian population. It will create instability, which will be dangerous for the North African region and for Libya's neighbours. In order to prevent this, regional organisations in the vicinity of Libya should play leading roles in the next stages. The rest of us have to respect and support these regional processes and not try to override them. At the same time, we must ensure that all actors are based on the decisions of the Security Council. In Libya, military power has been given speech for the past few weeks. The international forces have succeeded in enforcing the arms embargo and the grounding zone. We have significantly weakened the military capabilities of the regime. We have succeeded in preventing attacks on the civilian population. Human life is saved. It shows that it was right to take military action and that it was right for Norway to contribute. But the uncertainty about what the future will bring is great. Fighting is still ongoing, and the military situation is unclear. The civilian population is still at risk. That is why our mission is not yet completed. Let me end by expressing our common recognition for the mission our women and men in uniform have now undertaken. They are well trained, have modern equipment and are well connected with our allies. There's a lot of respect for the way the defense met the challenge. It shows that we have succeeded in converting to an intervention defence, with the ability to quickly organise and move personnel and equipment to meet new and demanding tasks. I will praise that courage and the responsibility our military show in these days. Those taking part in the efforts to protect the civilian population in Libya join the more than 500 who are currently carrying out their demanding mission in Afghanistan and in other international operations involving Norway. We are proud of the efforts of the soldiers. They need to know that they have our full support.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e283	The President will now propose, pursuant to the second paragraph of Section 34a of the Rules of Procedure of the Storting, that a comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each party group and, where appropriate, a final statement from the Prime Minister. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e288	Norway will take responsibility beyond itself, but in order to contribute effectively, we are dependent on good international organisation. That is why respect for international law, universal human rights and the promotion of international legal order underpin our foreign policy. It is in Norwegian interest that we have a United Nations-led world order. Our participation in Libya must therefore be seen in the context of the desire to strengthen the UN and international law. Today, when the Prime Minister has explained the situation in Libya and Norway's participation in international operations in the country, and when the Stortinge discusses this statement today, it is in the light of two important UN resolutions – UN resolution 1970 and UN resolution 1973. All UN member states have a self-evident responsibility to follow up the Security Council resolution. Norway, together with our allies and countries in the region, is now contributing to the follow-up to UN decisions. For Norway, it was important that the Libyan operation was supported by the Arab countries. The Arab League and the Secretary-General of the Islamic Conference condemned the violations of international law in Libya, and the Arab League was an active party to establish an aviation ban zone. This clear regional support gives additional legitimacy to the implementation of the UN Decision and Norway’s participation. Now that NATO has command and control functions, it does not change the fact that we are participating in a broad international coalition of countries that want to implement the Security Council's decisions. This coalition, which is just meeting in London today, goes far beyond the traditional NATO framework. The use of military measures means that we have to take a lot of responsibility. Among other things, we must: take responsibility for the impact of the use of force on people in the area, and we must take responsibility for the fact that our military forces may suffer the loss of human lives. The Prime Minister has therefore pointed out in his statement that there must be a very high threshold for the use of military power in international operations. In the international community, we have witnessed attacks against civilians in Libya. I am sure that we all now feel responsible for this in terms of Norway's participation in the action. The military measures in Libya have so far been successful. The international community intervened on time. But there is no unilateral military solution to the situation in Libya. That must be a political solution, a widely anchored political solution. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is currently attending an important foreign policy meeting in London to look closely at how international society can contribute to finding a political solution. The international community is agreed on the key points in this area. Like the Prime Minister, I would like to take the opportunity to commend our defence. Our Norwegian military departments have been impressively quick to get ready for their missions, and they have carried out the missions in a good and satisfactory way. They have the full support of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e303	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his statement and say that the Progress Party of course supports Norway's participation in the international coalition in Libya. We got a historic UN resolution where no one voted against. We feared for a while that China, and perhaps Russia too, would veto. But fortunately, the resolution came into effect, and we got an air ban decision. It's probably touched us all: TV images of a despot's mercenaries with their people. It touched us far into the soul. Gaddafi, who claims, and has claimed, to be one of the people, is now slaughtering ruthlessly down their own by means of African soldiers of hire. Personally, I would argue that the flight ban and the UN resolution came in twelve hours. The insurgents cried out to the international community for help, while the UN Security Council was negotiating. But despite some insidiousness from the United Nations, the coalition has managed to protect civilians to a great extent, and it's good to see. In the news today, we can read that 35 countries are united, as the prime minister said, in London to find a way further. Nevertheless, President Obama today says that he will not remove Gaddafi. He imagines that there may be a new Iraq. It could be interesting to hear what the Prime Minister and the government think about the way forward. NATO has now taken over the management of the enforcement of the flight ban, which may worry a little, because the Arab League has been extremely winged. They've gone from supporting the UN resolution to going out into the media and saying that's not exactly what you'd have thought, especially when they attack ground installations in the coalition. It's very important, I think, that this doesn't end up like a war where the West is against the rest, or where the Arab League can actually realize that we have completely different intentions, and that the agenda is different from what it is. I would also like to thank the soldiers on behalf of the Progress Party for the efforts they are making, which, at the short notice, has moved out, and which are doing an excellent job. I also think the information from the Defense under these tokens has been very good, even to people. It's incredibly important that we also have support in the Norwegian people for this, because it's not going to come from the fact that Norway is at war. Finally, I would just like to mention, as the Prime Minister was also involved, the refugee flows from Libya. Refugees are now in the first line to neighbouring countries, but today we could also read in the news that the first boat refugees had arrived in Europe. That means that we also have to take this into account and look, and keep in mind, where the problems come from in Europe. For this, conflicts can also arise in the short term in Europe if large refugee flows enter already heavily under pressure in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e316	Let me also thank the Prime Minister for the statement and stress that, of course, it is no ordinary experience that Norway sends military forces to missions that also result in bombing on the territory of other countries. There has been cross-political support demonstrated in the United Kingdom behind this – cross-political support for this UN mandate to protect civilians, and it is in a good Norwegian tradition, where Norway has been concerned that human rights, the rights of individuals against national sovereignty, are to be strengthened internationally. Many ask themselves the question: are we, given what is happening in the Middle East, facing a situation similar to that of Iran in 1979 or a situation similar to that of Eastern Europe in 1989? Some of those who fear the Islamists are afraid that it looks like Iran in 1979, and many of us who are concerned about being optimistic about freedom fighters, freedom of expression and another regime in many countries in the Middle East hope that we will face something similar to what happened in Eastern Europe in 1989. Many of the questions about where it ends are also about how we act, what actions we do. That's why I think it's been important that the West has actually been on – despite the war rights I think very many European countries, the United States and Canada are experiencing – to make military personnel available to carry out a United Nations mandate to protect civilians in Libya. If we hadn't, I actually think that the reactions had become even greater in the rebel masses, which would have looked at people who wanted freedom being killed by their tyrant, as it looked in Libya. I am concerned that we need to support the principle of responsibility for protection, because the 1990s' development from Srebrenica and Rwanda to Kosovo showed how difficult it was to get this kind of decision in the UN, and showed how often it was to withdraw and not set up the rights. Now we've got this more regulated in the United Nations system, and got the first decision attached to it. That doesn't mean that we'll always be able to set up, that it'll always be possible. But I want to warn against the inaction that comes from being so afraid that you don't see that you reach the ultimate, another goal, that you don't win some kind of war, that you don't let go in and protect civilians at the time it's possible. There are many people who can argue that we're not sure what the solution in Libya is, but does that mean that we're not going to act, don't stand up to protect civilians at that time? But it's also dangerous to get torn by the logic that because we've started there, we have to go on. We're not going to let that war logic tear us off. We should always remember that the most important mandate we have been given is to protect civilians in this context. I am therefore pleased that the government has reacted quickly. I'm glad we've had available, fast-acting personnel. I agree with the Prime Minister that this is a confirmation that the redispatches and changes that have been made in the Defence so that we have much faster response capability, now turns out to be working. I am concerned that, in each step in the future, we will have ice in our stomachs and remember what the mandate is. But I have to say that I am a little disappointed – and therefore I am going to spend my last minute on it – about experiencing that the unanimous, large and wide support that we have actually given on the side of the Storting, does not seem to give itself the same outcome in the government's own inner circles. I must be allowed to ask the Prime Minister if it is completely curative for a government, after a kilo. The resolution on participation, to have a Secretary of State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who says on the Dayrevy one night that it is unclear what mission it is, one is skeptical to Norwegian participation, and as the next evening says, what is happening now seems to me to be a Western military action, which goes very far in interpreting what is a mandate from the United Nations. Is it the case that the government has privatised the decisions and actions of foreign policy, or is it the case that state secretaries and state councils, like Erik Solheim, actually represent a practice that is correct? I think that's wrong, because a one-off big thing has meant something else.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e335	I would like to thank the Prime Minister for his good report. SV supports UN Resolution 1973 for three reasons. First of all, there was an emergency situation. There was a well documented urgent need to protect civilians from potential serious abuses. Secondly, the rebels in Libya asked for it. The main regional organisation, the Arab League, also took a decision against two votes. And there was a whole consensus about a decision in the Security Council. Thirdly, the UN and the world community must stand up for popular democratic powers in the Middle East and throughout the world. It is usually about supporting in words, with possible sanctions, with incentives and in other ways, but in the extreme situation that now was, also with military power. I want to say that it would have been very serious for democratic, popular forces that stand up to the regime, if the lessons after 2011 were to be that the dictators who do as Gaddafi and attack their own people by force, did the right thing, while those who do as Mubarak and go by peacefully after some time, were just stupid. So we think it's natural that Norway participates when the UN has made that decision, and we're behind the Norwegian participation. What's important now is, first of all, that Norway supports everything we can to keep the width of the international operation and support it. Therefore, I would like to say in particular that contact with the Arab League and individual countries, with the African Union and individual countries – what we know is that there are very different assessments between the different countries – is important in the future, as is the political breadth of the operation, as it is now. Then we have to call about the mandate. It means first that it is protecting civilians who are the main mandate, but also that the formulation of a political solution must be used wisely. The world can contribute to a political solution in Libya, but, as the Prime Minister said, the Libyans themselves are responsible for the further development of Libya. Norwegian efforts must then be kept under review as to whether the objectives of the UN Resolution are being achieved. I trust that the government will continue to participate in the international assessments of the balance between the use of power to protect civilians, as is now necessary, and the desire for a truce and a political process to secure future for the country. Then I would also say that both in the case of civil and humanitarian aid, I am pleased that the government is taking part here. I would also like to say that it is now important that we take responsibility for a discussion about the refugee situation, which is going to be very serious. We already see that there is a cause for concern in neighbouring countries. There may be a very demanding international situation, and I expect Norway and other countries to take responsibility for it. It must also be said that nine out of ten wars, if not more, go worse, last longer, create more problems than one believed. Everyone must be forbidden to stand up in very demanding situations after what has been started. That is what I and SV's group are very forbidden to do. That is why I commend the Prime Minister, the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence who have so clearly shared the dilemmas and problems with the people. Mi experience is that people appreciate honesty and openness that there are complex, difficult assessments, and that things can go worse than one initially thought. But here had a choice between something that was inconvenient, and something that is very difficult, but absolutely necessary. Finally, to Erna Solberg. If Erna Solberg could be as involved in how we're going to work with democracy in the whole region as criticising the State Secretary of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, that would be an advantage. For the truth, the following is true: it is not that the West, because of oil or other interests, has overturned dictatorship and entered the military. The truth is that we have allowed dictators and regimes to exist in the Middle East because stability is more important than democracy. I could therefore think of challenging other things: Is it a willingness that we and other countries should actually take action now to support the popular forces in other countries? Should we continue to sell arms to dictatorship? Should we demand that the UN now do more when it comes to Bahrain and other countries, and use the civil and legal possibilities that exist?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e358	Thank you for the presentation. Despite the slight squabbling between the SV and the Right now at the end, there is an overall surge that is behind the decision to send six F-16 aircraft and two military transport aircraft to the UN operation based on the Security Council Resolution 1973. The decision to use military power is always hard to take, and the goal must be that the military actions in Libya last as short as possible, and that one can find a political solution to the crisis we now see. This winter we have witnessed many dramatic events – first in Tunisia, then in Egypt – that have spread to almost the whole of North Africa and the Middle East. The protests in Egypt and Tunisia ended relatively peacefully, and the dictators chose to resign themselves. The situation in Libya has, until now, had the most tragic outcome. Libya’s leader, Colonel Gaddafi, chose another route and clearly signaled both words and actions that he intended to commit an assault – and kill – against his own people. The statements of Gaddafi before the international operation testified that he was willing to go far to maintain power. Among other things, he said: that he would crush the rebellion in the east without pity and without mercy. He warned the rebels that Gaddafi’s own forces would come, house - to - house, room for room in Benghazi. The choice between intervening in Libya through an international operation and not intervening, but watching a dictator attack his own people, was a very important but difficult decision. The crucial thing for us in the Central Party was the decision of the UN Security Council which gave a clear mandate to use a wide range of instruments to protect civilians. Another important factor was widespread disintegration, not least from Arab countries, that an operation was necessary. The UN mandate was given by ten votes in favour and five abstentions. No country vetoed, and no one voted against. Looking at the historical attitude of the Security Council towards intervention, or ‘interference in internal affairs’, as some countries call it, this is a historic decision. The UN demonstrated political action. However, since the UN does not have its own military forces, the ability to put the Security Council's decisions to life depends on individual countries being put up with military capabilities, as we are now doing. It is very positive that there is a breadth in the participating countries and that Qatar and the United Arab Emirates are also now part of the operation. It is important for legitimacy. Norway, like a small country, is dependent on a United Nations-led world order, and it has long been an objective for us to support those of the United Nations resolutions that show the power and determination to act. Hopefully, this operation will prevent what could have become a major humanitarian disaster, with all that it would involve of human suffering, refugee flows and unrest in an otherwise unstable region. In this operation, we are united on military matters, and we are united on humanitarian matters. Military efforts must now be followed up with heavy humanitarian efforts in support of Libya's peoples and neighbouring countries. This effort must also last a long time after the flashlights have been switched off and the military operations have been completed. We stand together as a great crowd about the military now, and it is important that, in the years to come, we also agree on a strong humanitarian effort in the areas that are now affected by the disaster to which we are witnessing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e373	There's a wave of social upheaval going through the Arab world right now. What is now happening in Libya and in several other countries can prove to be not only a dramatic event, but also a historical event. A popular uprising threatens one Arab tyranny after another, first in Tunisia, then in Egypt, and now stands the battle of Libya. On February 15 the rebellion started in Libya, a people rose up for their own freedom. The regime's threats of revenge eventually led the Security Council to act and adopted Resolution 1973, which authorized an international armed action and an air ban zone to stop the bloodbath. Protection of the civilian population was the main objective. It was in the last little thing. When French aircraft with UN authorization were deployed, they stopped a military column that had come so close to Benghazi that they had the city on fire. The bloodbath was prevented in the last little. The Christian People's Party supported the broad consensus in the UK that Norway had to participate in and comply with the UN resolution. The key measures, such as the grounding zone and military efforts, to prevent the killing of civilians to which the Libyan regime had committed itself, were important. The Christian People's Party has consistently supported what the government has set up in this context. We see it as important that the international action has the approval of the highest body of international law, the UN Security Council, and that it has the support of both Western countries, the Arab League and many other countries. It is not the West that invades an Arab country, but an Arab civilian population that receives protection and support from a world of solidarity. We see it as natural that such a demanding military action is now under NATO command. The option would be American command – perhaps the only other one with the capacity to coordinate such a comprehensive action. Since the tragic terrorist acts of 11 September 2001, the relationship between the West and the Arab world has become difficult and acute, especially since the invasion of Iraq in 2003. Extreme Islamic groups have interpreted the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq as a Western crusade against Muslim countries. Fear and hatred have been cultivated. The Christian People's Party believes it is essential that all military use of power has a clear foundation in international law. In addition, political and moral legitimacy is essential. Military engagements abroad must be the subject of broad and open debate, because of course a anchoring in the people is essential to ensure the necessary legitimacy. At the same time, it is important in such a broad and open debate to stress that we stand 100 pst. behind them that we send out to do the assignment for us. It's important to stress that Libya might be a turning point. But this is about whether, through a good political craft and good cooperation, we are able to protect the civilian population and support the uprising that can lead to a more democratic regime in Libya. With sufficient wisdom, we also have a historic opportunity to develop a better relationship between the Western and the Arab world. But then a strategy is needed that goes far beyond military action, yes, where military action is not even the most important thing we can do. We need to have a coherent policy, where in many areas we are doing our part to replace authoritarian and oppressive regimes. Western countries have not always done so. Short-term interests and fear of the alternatives have previously hindered a more constructive policy of democratisation and modernisation. Now we have to think about something new. That will be good – both for the people of the Arab countries and for the world community. The Arab world now needs a reformation that not only replaces tyranny with popular rule, but also replaces arbitrary abuse of power with respect for human rights, replaces female oppression with equality and equality, replaces prejudice with education, replaces corruption with a legal state. It is such a profound reform that is needed, if what we see in these days – a people in the Arab world who rebel – is to lead to more justice, more development, more popular rule and peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e394	I want to start by thanking you for the presentation. To both the Prime Minister and the President, I think it is important that we have this kind of debate in Stortinget. When we send soldiers to war, they deserve us to have a round here on why they're going to do what they're going to do. That's what I think is wise and important – and important to underline. What is happening in the Arab countries of North Africa today are important and major changes, changes that our children and grandchildren are going to read about in the history books. The problem is that the West has acted with double standards for all Arab countries. We have supported dictators as we have spoken well about democracy, human rights and governance. I think we now have the opportunity to show that the values that we stand for in our own countries, such as democracy and human rights, are values that we believe are universal. If we in the West are dealing with this situation correctly, perhaps the best thing we can do in the fight against terrorism, in the fight against extremism and in the fight against those who believe that the West has acted with double standards. Here we have the opportunity to show the opposite. This does not mean that what happens in these countries will end well. We're now in a phase where this can go all the way. But we have to make sure to stimulate what we think is good, namely democracy, human rights and democracy. We must contribute – and at least not sit and watch genocide happen in a country, no matter where it happens on the globe. The UN resolution was important and historic. We in the Left fully support it. It was important because it says something about government leaders not being allowed to commit genocide on their own citizens, but it also opens up the possibility that in the future you can have principles relating to citizens' rights and to the power of dictators over individual citizens. I'm glad the government supported it when it came. I wish the government had contributed to it. I believe that having a value-based foreign policy is important – a policy that is about meeting the values we stand for nationally, also internationally. Then I just want to say that I think maybe foreign policy should have a little colloquium in terms of the concept of war. Norway is at war based on the understanding of it by all people. If you ask people in Libya, if you ask Norwegian soldiers, if you ask the family of Norwegian soldiers, that's the perception. Then everyone understands that we're not based on diplomatic terms, but we have to talk about things as if it were proper. Then I will give four challenges to the Prime Minister. First of all, I think it's very important, and I hope Norway contributes to it, that the operation that we agree on is so wide that we both have Arab countries and African countries among us in the job we're going to do. It is very important that we succeed in what I said in the beginning. Secondly, making sure to get a court order after a dictator is important. We all know how such waves remain in countries that do not have legal settlements after the resignation of dictators. That's what the countries want to do all the time. Thirdly, we must take responsibility for the refugee situation and the humanitarian situation. We are a member of Schengen. We should also be involved in taking responsibility for the pressure that the peripheral countries of the European Union are now experiencing, and we must ensure that we make a humanitarian contribution so that the pressure on neighbouring countries does not become so great. Fourthly, in the last period, the Left actually received a majority for a Document No. Eight proposals for closer inter-peopleal cooperation between Arab countries. Suffering if the government parties voted in favour, we haven't seen so much about it. But now is the time. Now is the time to ensure inter-peopleal cooperation between the Arab countries and us. Now is the time to cooperate with sister parties. Now is the time to cooperate with NGOs in this area, because now is the time for us to build civil societies, build democracies in these countries. Then we should put everything on the table so that they can actually succeed in the job they're doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e420	The most important thing today is that an aggregate has given clear support to Norway's participation in the military operations in order to follow up the UN Security Council's decision to protect civilians in Libya. We have a long tradition in Norway that there is a broad consensus on these types of military operations, but I think it has been a long time since we have had such a clear, unreserved, unanimous and clear agreement in the Storting on the full dissolution of all parts, on the arrangement of military operations and Norway's contribution. It's important, it's joyous, and it's not least important because it's a very strong support for the Norwegian soldiers who are now participating in the military operations. I am pleased about that, and it gives strength to the policy that Norway stands for in the conflict in Libya. As has been said by several speakers, a fundamental reason for the broad support is that this is so clearly and clearly enshrined in a decision of the UN Security Council. We want a UN-led world. Then we must also be willing to use the means of power necessary to provide it, when necessary. At the same time, I am very clear on the following: it is not a military solution to the conflict in Libya. It is necessary to use means of power to prevent attacks on civilians. It is necessary to use force and military power to implement an arms embargo and an air ban zone, but the solution is not military. The solution is political. You have to get into political processes where you get to a truce, where you get to the end of the fighting, where you make sure you get Libya together and where the parties that are currently in conflict live peacefully together. It's not an easy problem. It's a task that can take many years. The challenge is that the use of military power can make that task more difficult. It is right to use military power to prevent assaults on civilians, but we know from long experience that when bombings are used when military means of power are used, contradictions are reinforced, and the work of political solutions is often made more difficult. That's this dilemma we're facing, and that's this dilemma we're now going to jointly deal with in many demanding choices in the days and weeks ahead. Just because we have given such decisive attention to the UN, I also believe that in the view of the issue of Gaddafi's role, we should place the utmost emphasis on the UN. The Security Council has taken a decision on the use of military force for the arms embargo, for the grounding zone and for the protection of civilians. It is not a decision of the UN Security Council to replace Gaddafi or to dismiss him as the leader of Libya, i.e. it is a decision to initiate investigations into infringements of international law. And that investigation has been linked to the regime's behavior and regime's actions in Libya. Therefore, many countries have said that they believe that Gaddafi should leave. I have said, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said, that we agree with that. He should step back, but we believe that it is not part of the mandate we now have from the United Nations. It would be contrary to the mandate to use military means of power for it. It may be handled by the United Nations Criminal Court. So a couple of other reflections. First, it was necessary to act quickly. Therefore, not all questions about the command structure were in place, but Norway was more than enough satisfied with the clarifications that were, before we sent our fighter planes into Libya. Then it's announced that NATO is now going to take over. It is even faster than foreseen, so that the decision that Norway is transferring its aircraft to NATO command can be taken as early as today. That means that tomorrow our planes will be able to fly under NATO command. It helps to clarify and clarify the command structure. It is a well-tested organisation that will then be in charge of the command of this demanding military operation. It is also important that we are neat in terms. Norway is not at war in the sense of international law. If we had been, we would have, among other things. Norwegian soldiers have been legitimate targets. They're not. Norwegian soldiers carry out a UN mission and are not legitimate targets for the regime's soldiers in Libya. On the other hand, of course, we are taking part in combat acts, which are acts of war. It makes us participate in military operations that people in everyday speech call war, and I understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e442	The debate on the presentation is thus closed. The President will propose that the Prime Minister’s statement on the situation in Libya and Norway’s participation in the International Coalition Force be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 2 and 3 are discussed together – and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e471	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by a member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e480	The issues we are dealing with now are the EU Aviation Allowance Directive and the amendments to the Climate Allowance Act that are necessary to adapt Norwegian legislation to the new Directive. Let me start by saying that Norway has been working actively for a long time to lift both international aviation and shipping into global climate negotiations. That is why, from a Norwegian point of view, it is very gratifying that this directive should be put in place, and we have a strong desire that European legislation should also contribute to driving the global discussions ahead in this area. The Aviation Quota Directive extends the EU ETS to cover emissions of CO2 from flights to and from EU airports, including domestic flights and flights to and from outside the EU. Aviation emissions are increasing faster than in any other sector and therefore this is a sector in which it is essential to control emissions growth. The total number of allowances to be made available to the aviation sector shall in 2012 be equal to 97 pst. of the average annual emissions of the sector over the period 2004 to 2006. This should be gradually reduced over the period 2013-2020, ending at 95 pst. of the average annual emissions for the period 2004 to 2006. The total quantity of allowances will thus contribute to limiting the growth of emissions by 46 pst. compared to what is expected to be achieved by 2020, and this is a formidable tightening. The aviation allowances will differ from the ordinary allowances in the allowance system by not being equivalent to Kyoto allowances and therefore do not have the double identity of allowances allocated to the stationary allowances activities. Thus, aviation allowances cannot be purchased and used to settle emissions from stationary activities, and it is of course necessary to do so in order to avoid the normal allowance market being eroded by allowances from a sector not covered by the Kyoto Agreement. But of course, this is a full opportunity for aviation to make up for its emissions by purchasing ordinary allowances, which will result in further emission cuts from stationary sources. On the part of the Labour Party, we are pleased that the directive is quickly implemented in Norwegian law, and we have also been concerned that this must be done without any special deviation from the directive. The current changes in legislation allow the introduction of quota obligations for all Norwegian flights from 2012 with the same regulatory framework as for all other EU countries. It is a unanimous committee that has given its opinion on these two issues. I would like briefly to point out that the Committee is concerned with the call contained in the directive on the use of revenues from quota sales for climate-related purposes in the EU and in third countries. The Committee has also pointed out briefly in its attitude to changes in the climate allowance law that the legislative proposal has been transmitted to the Stortinget before the Directive is formally incorporated into the EEA Agreement. This has been necessary because of the time pressure on the case and the strong desire to integrate the directive at the same time as EU countries. That's a wish we share. However, the Committee assumes, of course, that the matter will come back to Stortinget if it appears that there will be significant changes to the draft decision of the EEA Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e504	This is a unanimous vote by the Committee, so there will be so much debate. But I would like to make it clear from the Progress Party that we think it is good that we have a harmonised cross-border legislation on cross-border challenges. That's what's going on in this context. In such cases, we need to avoid strange charges, strange regulations, because it only hampers our own competitiveness. Then we have to make sure that we cooperate with other countries, so that we get the best possible international approach. That is why we support this proposal – and we think it is good. It assumes that the government is also doing as they have promised with regard to the CO2 charges that are already on air traffic in Norway today. The government has previously stated that a person should not have both fees and allowances, so that a person is given a significant increase, but that one does not necessarily remove the charges if the allowance price is very low. I understand that. However, the objective must be that the cost is somewhat at the level it is today; for Norwegian aviation, this must not result in a weakening of competition. Then I also hope that the government will base this principle approach on other issues relating to the climate quota law or the climate quota directive, so that Norwegian industry also has predictability in terms of not obtaining additional CO2 costs by establishing itself in Norway in relation to whether they had established themselves in other European countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e519	The issue we are dealing with today is an important directive that will help reduce emissions from a high-growth sector. Aviation emissions represent only 2 pst. of world emissions today, but can grow significantly if we do not adopt measures that deliver results and that are slowing down development. On the right, it is positive that aviation is assessed in the context of the rest of the EU quota market and supports the Directive as it stands. The Directive was adopted in the EU in 2008 and it was early clear that this Directive was and should be EEA-relevant. It is therefore particularly important that the Stortinget has to deal urgently with a three-year-old directive, because the government has not found time to promote the issue of implementation in Norwegian law in the past. The size must be able to expect more from the government than this. That being said, we are, as I said, well pleased with the main content of the directive. We believe it is good to include aviation in the quota market, and we believe this is a cost-effective way to limit emissions. Questions may be asked by the fact that such a large proportion of the allowances are allocated free of charge. Ultimately, this could lead to airlines actually increasing the profitability of the new quota system – which was hardly the intention. At the same time, this is compensated by the fact that the government appears to maintain the CO2 tax on mineral oil for domestic air traffic and thus introduces dual instruments for domestic air traffic. In principle, we should try to avoid double-use. I believe in this case – and on the basis of the large proportion of free allowances – that this can still be acceptable. This directive is probably an example and an important reminder that the EU takes decisions of great importance for Norway and Norwegian businesses. It also once again underlines the democratic deficit resulting from our self-imposed exclusion from the main political community in our part of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e535	There is a broad consensus on this matter in Stortinget, and there was no disagreement in the points raised in the three speeches made by Marianne Marthinsen, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Nikolai Astrup. It's a good day for the environment, and it's a good arrangement that we now get from the EU. I also agree with Mr Astrup that the European Union is crucial in this area. I think we'd all rather have seen a global ceiling and a global regulation of the aviation market. However, European regulation is much better than no regulation, and as far as Norwegian aviation is concerned, the predominantly domestic part of Norway or internally in Europe is going through it in a good way. But in the environmental field – I have no problem saying what is opposed to Norwegian membership of the EU – the EU has been invaluable. The ability to regulate such a large part of the EU market has been an important driving force in climate negotiations. The problem is rather the opposite – that the EU does not have enough influence and impact in global climate negotiations. Aviation and shipping are also areas where Norway has made a strong commitment. We have been more committed to shipping than to aviation, and the reason for this is simply that Norway is a major act in the field of shipping, while in the field of aviation we are one of many actors – an important player, but not a very special actor. So we have put more force into the negotiations – and in other contexts – to influence global shipping regulation. Questions were asked about free allowances from Astrup. I agree that it would have been an advantage if the allowances were sold. It follows from the polluter-pays principle. On the other hand, as I have repeated here many times, the airlines will have exactly the same incentive to reduce their emissions even if the allowances are distributed, because they will then be able to sell allowances and get profits from it. So the drive to improve air traffic will be there. As I see it, the most important positive thing we can hope to get out of this, is that it will be a stronger incentive for the aviation industry itself to take hold of all the technological opportunities that lie there. In general, new and better aircraft, new and better fuel types, for example: Biofuels. It's about green take-offs where you don't have to circle very long before you land, but you can fly straight from one place to another, more environmentally sound design on the planes and full planes. There is a high potential to reduce air traffic emissions. I would also like to say that the aviation industry has occasionally received a bit of an unfair stamp on itself as a sort of blighting industry. Right now, as was said here, 2 pst. of world emissions from the aviation industry. The problem is that this is an area where we have to expect huge global growth. Still, there are certainly more than a billion of India's nearly 1.1 billion inhabitants who have never been on a plane, and there are hundreds of millions of Chinese who have never been anywhere near an airport. So we have to expect a big growth in this market. For example, for the moment: the international IT industry having the same meaning as the aircraft industry. Then questions were asked from Solvik-Olsen and others about how we view the relationship between the CO2 tax and the quota market. There are in principle three possible models. One is to add one charge to the other. The second is to liquidate domestic CO2 taxes as a result of entering the EU allowance market. The third thing, which it interestingly seemed as if Solvik-Olsen had some love for, was to see these things in context and then make sure that the total burden doesn't get bigger than it is today. The government has not taken a decision on this, and we will present it in the context of the 2012 State budget. Finally, let me just thank the Stortinget for a quick procedure. There has been a little unorthodox procedure, too, by the fact that the matter was presented before it was completely formal in the system. However, the rapid procedure – with the consent of Storting, which we hope will soon receive – will allow the directive to be formally incorporated into the EEA Agreement as early as Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e560	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Two and three. [[See pages 3165 and 3167]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e578	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3168]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e596	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3168]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e614	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3168]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e632	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3168]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e650	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3168]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e678	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3168]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e696	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3169]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e715	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3169]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e720	We have come to Case No. 12, which is an interpellation from Hadia Tajik to the Minister of Knowledge. The President does not ignore the fact that the Stortinget will consider it an advantage if the inter-pellant and the Council of State are present. The President understands that today's map has gone somewhat faster than what has been calculated, and suggests that we take a break and wait until both the interpellant and the Council of State to respond to the interpellation are present. The cancellation will then take a break, and the meeting will be set again when the persons concerned arrive. The meeting was cancelled at 9.00 p.m. 11-18. ----- The meeting resumed its negotiations at 9 a.m. 11:21.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e733	Now we're ready to move on in the processing of today's maps.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e749	This interpellation is a declaration of love to and criticism of the common school. The declaration of love is that the Norwegian school's nobility mark is that it is free, public and common to all, regardless of background and whatever the assumptions. Our students get caught up in each other, and they learn from each other – or as the general part of the curriculum says, the training “must give each student the skill to take care of himself and his life, and at the same time profit and willingness to stand by others”. I am of the clear opinion that it is the common school that is best for all students, including those who are professionally strong or highly motivated. But yet I want to promote criticism of the same school that I set so high. Because even if we aim to make all students adapt to training, we know that it's not the case that everyone gets it. In many debates here at Stortinget, we have, rightly, discussed how students who are struggling at school should get better follow-up much earlier. The future of these students depends on it, and the future of Norway as a knowledge nation depends on fewer students falling away. At the same time, we know that not all students who are professionally strong or highly motivated get the follow-up they need. Some say that good students will always be fine. I believe they are wrong. A 12-year-old who is good at math is still a 12-year-old and does not necessarily have the social maturity to cope with. It is an adult responsibility to help these students reach their full potential. Students who are professionally strong and do not have enough challenges are at risk of losing motivation. They risk becoming underdogs because no one makes demands on them, or because the reputation as a good student makes them get too little resistance. This can in return cause them bad work habits, which they may get dizzy for later in life. In other words, it is important to give these students greater challenges to get involved, both in order to continue to develop professionally and to keep the motivation up. It's important for the students' own future, but it's also important for the rest of the class. Exposure is contagious. The same thing is lack of motivation. If we can't take better care of those high school students, it can affect the performance of the class as a whole, ‘Classmate effect’ is what someone calls it when students at different levels and with different backgrounds inspire each other. She who comes from a home where homework is not so important can get inspiration from the one who works diligently with the homework. He who thinks that math is boring, can be put on new thoughts by her that bubble over by enthusiasm for new numbers and tasks. But then, too, the professionally strong students have to face enough challenges to maintain motivation and to maintain their apprenticeship. If you don't, this effect will be ignored. When the 2009 PISA survey was published last autumn, we were pleased that Norwegian students perform on average better than before. We have also managed to reduce the number of pupils who perform very poorly in the areas covered by the PISA survey. Although the PISA study does not measure everything that is important, it measures some of the important things. It is worth noting that the study also showed that Norway has very few students at mastering levels 5 and 6. In addition, in terms of reading and math, the number of students in Norway at the top levels has decreased since 2000. Countries such as: New Zealand, Australia and Canada have a higher proportion of their students in this particular area. The OECD, which is behind the PISA, calls these students «world-class knowledge workers of the future». This is kind of pompous, but I still think that to some degree they're right. Providing these students is both about individual students, about the whole class, and not least about our own competitiveness in an increasingly internationalised world. The OECD has been working for many years to identify what makes some schools succeed and others fail. They point out that schools succeed best in countries where you have a common school, where students are not separated into groups, classes or schools by level of performance or social background. Research also shows that students who are particularly professionally strong benefit from moving faster than the other students. Professor John Hattie points out in his review that faster progress has a much greater positive effect than giving more challenges and tasks to the same thing. This has been partly attended by our own government by opening from 2009 that students who are motivated to do so can take courses at the level above. This allows secondary school students to take courses in higher education and secondary school students to take courses in higher education. It's been a positive experience for a lot of students. Others, however, feel that they still receive too little information about the possibility, and that it is often poorly organised to take more difficult subjects. The magazine Headmaster could tell about young Richard in January this year. He goes to Asker High School. He took mathematics in high school when he went to 10th grade at high school. He then met some practical challenges due to a lack of organisation. Three of the five hours he went out of his own class were Norwegian hours. Richard missed an arrangement to keep up with the Norwegian hours that he missed, while he got inspiration in the more advanced math classes. Today Richard goes to Vg1, and he takes math on Vg2. He does not think the syllabus is particularly difficult now either. He solves the problems very quickly, he rarely has to be at home with homework. He has not yet experienced that he must concentrate so much to understand the subject. The career counsellor at the school estimates that Richard can also take physics at a higher level, and possibly take it as a privateist in May. But what she's saying is that they're meeting practical obstacles to this because of the common subjects of Vg1. This is a single experience, but it says something about both the information needs and the need to facilitate the best possible functioning of the profession. So I'm going to say in the end that although I'm not going to let it become a habit to contribute anecdotes from my own life from this pulpit, one of the reasons why I'm engaged in this is that I know what it means to be very bored at school because you don't get enough challenges. Then I was happy in the sense that my teacher and my principal at high school made it possible for me to finish faster than the other students. But I am concerned that there should be no luck in deciding what opportunities you have at school. That is why I am now asking the Minister of Knowledge what she will do to ensure that students who are professionally strong or highly motivated will face enough challenges in school more systematically.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e795	I'm glad that this interpellation is being addressed here today, and I share with the representative Hadia Tajik's challenge or questions about how to make sure that all students have something to do with. What we know is the core of motivation is that you get demanding, but realistic expectations, that you have something to look for, and that you get assessments and feedback on how to do it. This applies to those students who are able to pursue a course, but also to those students who are easily qualified for a course, or who have special interests in some subjects. All students, including those who learn quickly, have the right to training adapted to the student’s abilities and assumptions. It is stated in the Training Act § 1-3. This is currently being done in different ways within the framework of current legislation. But in addition, we have some special arrangements to meet the needs of students who learn quickly and are highly professional. As Tajik's representative pointed out, research shows that what is motivating and developing for this student group seems to be letting the students go faster than the other students, including skipping classes. If students do not face appropriate challenges, they do not see the benefit of learning good working habits and developing effective learning strategies. Many high-performance students have high motivations, but they still need learning support so that they are ‘looked at on the road’ and get professional challenges adapted to their level. In order to meet the need for a faster progress in the field of education for some young people, we have introduced the possibility of taking mathematics, science, social sciences, English and foreign languages from higher education. The scheme is not a right for students, and the students depend on the school and municipality cooperating closely with higher education in order to establish an offer. According to the data we have for the 2009–2010 school year, municipalities report a total of 724 pupils in upper secondary school. About 400, i.e. more than half of these students, are students at schools in Oslo, and in several countries no or only one or two students are using this scheme. Now there may be quite large local inequalities that make it easy or difficult to organize to follow the education from a high school if you are a student at a high school. It can have with the proximity to high school to do and other things. But in any case, there is a potential for a far greater extent of the possibility of facilitating that high school students who need major professional challenges can follow an approach to high school. It is assumed that those students who have come through the mathematics they are expected to do at the youth level, at a much earlier stage than at the end of the 10th grade, can go on and start with mathematics at a higher level in higher education and possibly continue with the subject at the university level while they are high school students. We see that there is a need for better information for school owners and schools about the scheme. In the 2011 Education Directorate’s letter, the Directorate is asked to draw up and disseminate examples of the scheme for taking courses from higher education. In addition, the directorate is asked to assess whether the scheme can be extended to several disciplines and whether action can be taken to facilitate the use of the scheme. I will come back to how this works, among other things. in the context of the Youth Action Communication, which will take place in a few weeks’ time. But that's how we've been getting more and more attention around the challenges of these students. Many of them have experienced severe discouragement because the number of tasks has increased, but the challenges associated with the tasks have not increased in the same way. There's a much greater awareness of these issues now than it was just a short time ago. I also want to take up a couple of other possibilities that students have when it comes to stretching a little extra, for example. the TAF scheme. Several counties offer vocational education and training courses to students at the same time with real-time depression during a four-year period. This is a school offer that takes place in cooperation between high school and local business. There are 16 secondary schools today that have this offer, and the TAF scheme sets very high standards for students, because, in addition to regular vocational training under the 2+2 model, they will have general and special study skills at the same time. TAF is not part of the national supply structure, but we consider this to be a good offer for students who want to combine practices with the more theoretical subjects of the study-specific education programme. The Ministry has recently met with the ‘TAF environment’ to see if we can better facilitate this scheme. Then I would like to mention projects for immersion, which constitute a significant part of the compulsory training of vocational education and training programmes – 21.4 pst. over two years. The primary aim of the subject is for the students to get to the Vg3 professions when they go to Vg1 and Vg2. However, for some students who want general study competence, it is already possible on Vg1 to use hours from project to immersion for this. Timer from the immersion project can also be used to take the programme subject from the preparatory training programme, such as: foreign language or sport. It is also the case that students who wish to take more upper secondary education than those within the framework of school education can register as a private individual. Students who do this within regular training periods will be able to have these additional subjects at the high school diploma. In conclusion, I just want to say the following: it is important that we are committed to providing all students in school with challenges and training adapted to their abilities and assumptions. I share the starting point of the interpellant, that we are very much served to further develop the common school that is Norway's school model. We know that it means that children of whatever background go to the same school to a very large extent, and we know that an important part of the characteristics of a good education system is that you have a high degree of social equality. We also know that the old syllabus system, i.e. placement of young people in curricula with different expectations, locked children and young people within training systems that gave many of them too little expectations, and prevented many from developing in relation to their potential. So the challenge we have is to provide adapted training in such a way that everyone has something to reach out to, but at the same time preserving the community that we know is so crucial for the development of interaction between all the students. With the adaptations I've been through here, which we should be able to use a lot more in Norwegian school, I think we're about to create an adapted training within the common school framework, which means that we both keep the learning pressure in relation to all the student groups and also manage to take care of the community that is so valuable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e825	I would like to thank the Council of State for a good response. I am glad that we have a common understanding that it is the common school that will be best for all students, including those students who are highly professionally strong or highly motivated. I would also like to stress that I believe that many of the measures that we are discussing in this Chamber, like to relate to those students who are struggling at school, are also measures that in many cases will benefit the highly skilled students. When, for example, discusses the role of the teacher – and there is a broad political consensus that having competent and engaged teachers has a lot to say for the learning outcomes of the students, that is the main factor for it – it is clear that having competent and engaged teachers, working to recruit more good teachers, working with teacher training, and communicating clearly that what you need is teachers with authority, with respect in the classroom, who are able to provide pupils with clear feedback on where they stand, and how they can get better, is something that all students benefit from, including those students who are highly professional. When we dealt with and discussed questions about time thieves in school, and how we can eliminate time thieves in school, whether it's the reporting field or too many forms that have to be filled out from the teacher's hand, which draws attention away from the teacher's task, it turned out that there are also factors that are important for the professionally strong students to get better. I'm glad to hear that the Council of State wants this perspective in the high school message, and I look forward to having it discussed in this room. I represent Oslo, and in Oslo, I've seen a lot of headlines about schools operating on what I see is some kind of rigid and long-term leveling. In September last year, the class struggle wrote that Kastelt Children's and Youth Schools organise the teaching so that the students who are said to have a greater degree of autonomy are in the group they call 'paper', the middle self-employed are in the group called 'Saxon', and those who are thought to need much support and follow-up are organized into 'Stone'. My concern is then to ask how the Council of State responds to the fact that it appears to develop a trend with long-term, rigid level-sharing, when it comes to research in this field, not least from John Hattie, points out that it has almost no effect with level-difference where one is placed in groups with other students who are assumed to be at the same level, and that in addition there is a risk of mislocation and reinforcement of social differences. And of course, there's a difference between having a short-term level divide where you have, for example, a short-term level divide. read-enhancement jobs over a defined period of time, and having it for a longer period of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e836	Of course, it is not possible for me to go into and comment on how some schools solve the dilemmas of finding good models of adapted training, while at the same time avoiding a level-sharing that locks children and young people into a set of expectations that make many really get too little learning pressure directed at themselves. These are of the dilemmas that I know it's going on in a lot of schools, and how many people are trying to find the right balance to take with them the value of what's the primary school, take with them the value of that community and that friendship that makes kids and young people evolve themselves and each other in a community, while at the same time not leveling over time so that you lock children into some special expectations and maybe risk holding them back in relation to their development rather than actually promoting their learning. There's a code and a law, but I also think we need more information about what we have about research and experience in this area. This is one of the themes that we come back to in the Youth Level Communication. I think there's too much misunderstanding in many places that it's encouraging for learning to divide students into groups that last too long, and that you can then take special care of the students according to the assumptions they have. I don't think that's about evil will, I think it's often about wanting to get into a practical everyday life and practicing customized training in a way that's not just individualized, but that makes it possible to teach. I think it's a very important discussion to take. It is also very important to develop what we have from research, for example. from Hattie, who just proves how harmful level-sharing is, or that you force young people to make choices that they have to deal with for the rest of their lives. For example, when we had the curriculum system, and children down to the age of 12-13 were forced to make choices, or their parents made choices, or their teachers made choices, all their future opportunities to choose a profession, etc. actually decided then. We're very little served with that. So I'm dividing the starting point that the interpellant has. I believe that in this area it is important that we highlight through knowledge and research that we are able to keep to the law we have, but at the same time approach the issues of what is adapted to training, both for those who are struggling, and for those who are far ahead of the others, without us falling for the temptation to level-sharing or old curriculum systems.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e845	Today’s interpellation puts the search light on an important issue in the Norwegian school. Today's interpellation shows that there are at least some in the Workers' Party who understand that it is also important to cultivate the talents in the Norwegian school. It hasn't necessarily been the review tone of the Workers' Party rhetoric around the school, but I'm glad of any improvement you can track from that team. So that's how PISA points to some challenges in Norwegian school. Something goes the right way: fewer people read poorly. But there are also fewer in the category of future knowledge workers at a high international level. That, of course, is a problem. We have had a recent debate in this Chamber with Aasland's staff on the real subjects. In real life it's 6 pst. belonging to the two highest categories of PISA in Norway. That figure is far too low, all the time I feel that all political parties in the Storting agree that real-time competence is important for Norwegian value creation. Then I'm not as concerned about level-sharing as the representative of Tajik and the State Council of Halvorsen. I'll take the Hattie quotes with me. Because it's quite correct that Hattie points out that it's not as good a diet-benefit of level-sharing as it's not of teacher's density either. Hattie's probably going to be with us in this room for months to come. But Hattie is also very clear, as the representative Tajik pointed out, that what works better than level-sharing, is to let the individual student get the progress and challenge he has the best of, and that, in my opinion, the student under Norwegian law also has a claim. We disagree, I hear. We're going to spend a little bit more time on that. But I think the representative Tajik says something very good. It's not luck to decide. It is not the municipality in which the mother and your father have randomly chosen to live, which will decide whether you should be actually trained, even for those students who deliver far above the average. But it's luck that determines it today. The bread basket case from the municipality of Bærum is an excellent example of that. So this is a boy who has very resourceful parents, and who, after many years of fighting, is still not quite in the finish line. Now the matter may have been resolved, but it has taken many years to fight against the authority of the municipality, the county council and the Education Directorate, not least. When this debate started, I was on the phone with a father on one of the islands of Helgeland. There aren't very many universities, but fortunately there are some strong parents out there fighting for their kids. He had just received a letter from the Education Directorate, which said, "No, your son is going to do plus and minus, even though he's more than qualified to do quadratic equations." This is to kill talent, this is not to give adapted training to the students involved. I also think that the Council of State is interested in something important when she points out how few, after all, are in Norway that actually receive these offers. We know that this will apply somewhere between 5 and 10 pst. of the student mass. The record in Norway is probably 6 pst., which is in the municipality of Lom in Oppland. I don't think it's with respect to report – I've been to Lom sometimes – that there are so many academics in Lom. I think it's about having resource-intensive people in high school who want and burn for this, and having local politicians and school people in the municipality who make it happen. The council said this is not a right. It should have been a right. When it is stated in the Training Act that children must have adapted training, it may not apply only to 90 pst. by the students. It must apply to all. As a historian – the representative Tajik was good at all subjects, I was really just good at history, and there I was rarely challenged – I hope that the Council of State will at least include the subject of history in its further assessment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e862	It's with some wonder I'm recording today's series of interpellations from the government parties. I believe that it cannot be interpreted in any particular way except that the representatives of the red-greens also feel that a little frustrating that the committee has almost gone idle since Christmas. But to the matter. The interpellant shall have great praise for addressing this important theme. On the right, the interpellant fully agrees with the need to focus on the PISA results and shares the concern that Norway has fewer pupils performing at the highest level. It's as big a challenge for the school to lift the good ones as lifting the weak ones. However, the question is whether the school has the necessary political backing for effective differentiated training. There is a lot to the government in practical policy to show that you really want good, ambitious students to be given a greater opportunity to make full use of their skills, and to make sure that the school is flexible enough to adapt to students who want more. Too often we hear that good students are understimulated and bored at school. It is a very important task to take school motivation seriously and take care of it also for these students. Something else would be wasting with talent. An analysis of the 2010 Student Survey showed that the school motivation was top in 5th grade, and then evenly and tightly until the students left primary school. And the right question is, what kind of action will the school authorities take to reverse such a trend? I'm convinced that motivated students learn more than students who are bored at school. Therefore, it is essential to identify the causes of the failure and take active action to maximise the learning outcomes of all students from the school. The promise of knowledge placed great emphasis on the school providing all students with challenges based on their abilities and talents, and had a clear vision that it would be possible for students to take a course and start a syllabus beyond their own level when they had reached their competence goals. The interpellant refers to Hattie and the importance of faster progression rather than to practice more at the level you were. Last year's evening post showed a survey on how this scheme worked for pupils in initial training. The result was rather discouraging and revealed great differences in offers for students to go on to the syllabus beyond their own year. Only a small minority of municipalities offer this to the students. Here it often strands on unexplained financing issues. What has the government, or the minister of knowledge, done to dissolve in this fund? The councils were inside the TAF system, but there is a system that is constantly experiencing defects in the wheels. TAF students work hard and combine both professional and general subjects. But the amazing thing is that the students have had to fight a senseless fight against bureaucracy to get a testimonial that shows that they have actually completed two educations. The system did not tackle the fact that this education offer needed a diploma with space for more subjects and grades than is standard. This is too stupid, and these students should have been saved for this. But the TAF students are not alone in facing problems in the system. Students wishing to complete secondary education, two-year specialisation, have also encountered problems because they do not use the right to three-year training. It's almost so you don't think so. The students have taken three years in two years and are ready to move on to higher education, and then the authorities make a problem of this. Yes, you can give up by less. If the government is really committed to facilitating good students to maintain a higher training rate, then it is also necessary to instruct the directorate and the education directors to adopt a much more flexible attitude when such offers require adaptations that violate normal practice. Luckily, it's dormant to bet on the ones inside the sport and make it possible for them to combine school and to cultivate their sports talent. Without this, there had probably been few medals in the year's ski World Cup in Holmenkollen. But if counties and municipalities will facilitate similar specialisation in traditional schools such as real science, language or art, then the road is paved with stumbling blocks. Why does it have to be like this? In the right, it is important to stimulate the provision of training that can attract the most attractive students to go even further than they would otherwise have the opportunity to. It is important for the knowledge-based nation of Norway if we are also to be able to participate in global competition in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e888	I think it's been a very good debate so far, with a lot of good posts. I think most, cross-politically, have a common goal of making teaching as adapted as possible to both the weak and the good. So I want to give praise to the interpellant Tajik for what she's bringing up. I would also like to contribute to stressing what she has said about the need for the Community school to be the basis for all students. It is important in the Norwegian school model, as the Council of State also said. Still, that's how we learn differently, and we're different. It is important that we have the opportunity to learn at our own pace – both those who need more time, and those who need less. That doesn't necessarily mean that we need our own groups to work differently. The students can go in the same class. It's about acceptance for inequality and working for good marine life – even for those who don't learn so fast. The most important thing in high school is not that they read the same textbook but that they read at a certain expected level. In a class of eight-year-olds, you can have readers who read thick books, and readers who might read two lines per page. I believe it is important that, as an authority, we encourage differentiation of education, seagoing if they go in the same group. It's about methodology, and it's about organisation. It is important to listen to the research and Hattie, which are specifically mentioned in this context, and it is important that this is taught at the teacher's schools. As the interpellant has said before, students today also have the opportunity to take some upper secondary education courses when they go to high school. It's great for the students who get this opportunity. Nevertheless, I would like to shout a little warning – or a little: Listen to me! – for those in the group who are almost there that they should take, for example. mathematics from higher education. Everyone has to get challenges. It is not particularly motivating to do more than one task at a time to keep up with work. Adapted training is important. In order to offer a more differentiated education that also appeals to students' motivation, the Centre Party has among other things. is addressed in the field of choice at secondary school — which focuses on the inequalities of students. Our idea is that if you can get a immersion course, either practical or theoretical, you will be able to satisfy more people who learn at different paces and have different qualities. We therefore have great expectations for the presentation of the high school message, and I expect that the Council of State might touch that theme in it. In high school, students have more opportunities to eat. They may choose different directions according to their interests and abilities. In the professional field, at least we are concerned that more people must be given the opportunity to combine general subjects with professional subjects. The so-called TAF lines, which have been covered here, have their sisters and brothers in the more unknown HAF, health and general education, and LAF, agriculture and general education. These are four-year-olds offered by some students in some countries. I think it's time we looked at how we could make such studies more general and accessible to more people. As far as the subject of study preparation is concerned, I agree with the interpellant. It is possible to take a course at the university, but it should not depend on luck. It may be, for practical reasons, that the Council of State has explained, but there must be something that municipalities and counties are striving to do. The representative, Lien, demonstrated in an exemplary way how this can be done also in small municipalities in District Norway. The main problem I think may be that it feels inconvenient for the individual learner to be able to differentiate. That means there's a need for more teachers per student, as I see it. The teacher must have time to see all the students. Should the students be able to follow their own progress, the teacher must have time for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e914	First of all, I must be allowed to wonder at the representative of Aspaker's wonder that her colleagues in the Education Committee are interested in discussing education policy. But when that is said, I would like to thank the representative Tajik for addressing this issue. I think it's important, and it shows an engagement that the Workers' Party and this government have had for a long time. It is wrong when the representative Lien says that this government has not been busy with the most beautiful ones, or that the Workers' Party has traditionally not been busy helping the ones. There is a kind of performance that has been tested designed by the right-hand side of Norwegian politics. I believe that this initiative is an example of doing the opposite. The former Swedish Prime Minister and Social-Democrat Tage Erlander said that the task of politicians is to build dance floors on which we can dance our lives. I don't think he at that time thought that the dance floor was supposed to be a dance floor just for the worst, where there shouldn't be room for the best. For – as we all know – it's a little boring to be on the dance floor if only people dance badly there. It is a prerequisite for continuing high school attendance that there is a place where everyone is given the opportunity to stretch — the weakest, but also the nicest. For this reason, it is important that the schemes pointed out here in the past, with the possibility of taking higher education courses, whether in high school, high school or at university level, so that students who are the best, are allowed to move forward quickly and are allowed to reach out for new tasks. I also believe that when the most good people stay in the community, in the classroom, that they are allowed to be there and get something to stretch after, it also helps to provide drag help to the weakest students, if this is done in a good and structured way. We have a lot of research, which has also been mentioned here before, that shows that students who are in a class community are learning best. We have research that shows that students who experience high learning pressures and progress are responding positively and want to learn more. One of the most comprehensive school sociological reports ever produced — in fact from 1966 — the Coleman report, called the Equality of Educational Opportunity, showed that the class environment was very critical of what the students learned. It showed quite specifically that in the classes dominated by an active learning culture, the weakest students were drawn up, without having negative consequences for the strongest students. It tells me once again that having an overall approach to school policy, where the strongest and the weakest can be allowed to attract alternates, creates the best learning environment. That's also what we know from our society, otherwise, that when everyone participates and works together, we get to the best results. I think the Right is trying to make this into a fight between the ones and the rest of the school. You try to make a difference between being allowed to stretch and being able to learn something. I believe that it is very distant from reality and is designed to support under the Right a little dogmatic, ideological approach to the topic. So the Workers' Party's good, old election slogans "Everyone's going along" are probably what also applies here, if we're going to get with the 1's and also bring up the ones that's at the bottom.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e935	It's exciting to follow the debate, and I think it's exciting to discuss the topic raised by the representative Hadia Tajik. And I think it's fun to discuss it with the starting point of the Christian People's Party, because I'm proud of the way the Christian People's Party looks at the school and the students. Because, as an approach and perspective in school policy, everyone is different, and that is something we value. The fact that you learn in different ways, that you're different, that you're different, that you're at different levels, that's great, and that's something that teachers, school and government have to face with a positive attitude. The fact that we're different means that as politicians, we have to dry up to solve the challenges at school in different ways for each student. That's exactly what many people have been dealing with during the debate, and that's exactly what might create a little bit of the controversy in the matter. The Christian People's Party is also busy at the same time you have a school that manages to see that it's not necessarily just students with 6's who create the winning school, that's not what decides if you succeed. But the school also has an education task – being involved in molding the kids and making them a ‘gag’ person is a much more important perspective. We're the whole people, and just focusing on the professional, that's what determines whether a person's success in school is not going to be right. Today’s debate is important to help the ‘flinkises’, as they are called, but it is at least as important to help those who are struggling. Because when you're talking about being able to meet each student at the level they're at, it's important for those who're good, but it's also important for those who work a little extra. I have to admit that when I hear the Council of State and the interpellant talk, I agree with much of what they say, but I'm not necessarily sure that the policy they run is the one who agrees to solve it. Because there are great expectations, and there is a lot of weight being put on the shoulders of the teachers out there when one says that the teaching should be adapted so much to each student, and that the teachers should meet those who are struggling, the ones who are good, and maybe do it as one teacher with 25-30 students in the classroom. It's an incredibly difficult problem. That's why I think it's a little bit sad that the Council of State is not willing to look more at what's going on in level-sharing as well. I'm not saying level-sharing is the solution to everything, but I think that one should be clear to meet every single student at the level they're at, one also has to be willing to see that one needs instruction in different ways, perhaps in different classrooms. So I think what's involved in creating a good school, what's involved in creating students who think it's exciting to go to school, is the master's feeling, and the master's feeling comes when you're just able to get the education on the right level. That's why I think it's all about those who work at school. Because if you're struggling at school, you're sitting around feeling that all your education is going over your head. One thing is all those who sit and chain themselves because it's getting too easy, but it's probably so much about those who don't manage to pick up the teaching because it goes over their heads. Therefore, a dry person must look at how to adapt teaching better. There may be more level-sharing over a shorter period of time in some individual subjects, but there may also be the possibility that each individual student, at least in higher education, sits with a PC in front of him. It's an American organization that's made 2,000 English-language videos, which is a tool that makes it possible to learn, practice, that is, through websites, you can provide tools that allow you to measure progress, and also go a little bit further on your own. Perhaps it will provide some new rooms and new opportunities for the Norwegian school to be able to use such instruments. This allows the teacher to free up time so that the teacher can be more present for each individual student, and one can also use such tools to make the teaching more adaptable and at the level of the individual student. I am pleased that the debate is here, and I am pleased with what everyone wants, and which many have pointed out is also enshrined in the law, to have a teaching adapted to each student. But I'm afraid that the school as it is today is unable to meet both those who are struggling, or those who are at a stage where they have come much further than the average in school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e949	Then the President will give the floor to the interpellant. – A speaker has just joined us, for which we have room, thus giving the President the floor to Aksel Hagen. Maybe it's worth asking for the word a little bit before you go to the pulpit. Axle Hagen, be so good – then interpellant, unless someone joins in the next two to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e952	It's not that easy when you come from the Inland! We're doing this in this debate and we're wondering a little bit about each other's posts. I'll partly do the same. However, I shall first of all make a concrete proposal to one of the representatives who have made contributions here, and that is the representative of Kjell Ingolf Ropstad. I'm a little surprised that the Christian People's Party goes so clearly with the conclusion that level-sharing is right. Because I really think that the Christian People's Party also agrees, and I'm interpreting the post so that it's important to have a school where we learn together, that it's important to have a school where we learn to live together – and that it's an important part of the school's task. We've also heard through a lot of good articles here that we're also learning very effectively when we're just doing it together. As I see it, it is a seaworthy conclusion that one supports what is SV's clear ambition, and the government's ambition, that we should put in place a resource standard so that we can get more teachers in place that can put our everyone's ambition for adapted education into life. So rather than asking for a Norwegian school with more level-sharing, I recommend Christian People's Party to support a school where we get a clear resource standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e959	Then the president cannot see that there have been more speakers, and she will then give the floor to the interpellant.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e962	I would like to thank you for participating in this discussion, and for the commitment that so many representatives have shown. I agree with the representative Robstad that this discussion is about appreciating the differences in school, that you have different approaches, different backgrounds of experience, that you might also have a slightly different potential – some learn faster than others – and that you have to build up both under those who are struggling with learning, and not least under those who have good professional qualifications for it. I also feel that this discussion illustrates an ideological distinction between us in the government position and the parties on the right on the question of what we think yields the best learning outcomes. The Red-Green parties are clear that it is the Joint School, and we have support in research on it, while the Right and Advance Party, on the basis of purely ideological grounds, insist that more segregated offers will be wise. It's not that long since we discussed in this Chamber the proposals of the Progress Party to create four elite schools in real science, and although the Right does not support this, their programme clearly states that they will set up specialised secondary schools in accordance with the pattern of upper secondary education. It was also something that the representative Aspaker himself spoke about from the pulpit in his speech. There's a fundamental and important difference between whether you bet in the common school to lift all the students, or whether you want to open the door to segregated school services. We'll do the first one, and we're of the opinion that it'll be best for all the students. Knowledge policy must be knowledge-based. John Hattie has been quoted from the pulpit earlier. I would also like to refer to the school scientist Jo Boaler. She's been looking at the mathematical development of 700 American teenagers for four years. It showed that the students in mixed groups achieved better results than the students in groups where all the students were at the same professional level. In fact, the group of students who achieved the best results in this study was the group composed of students at different levels, who were responsible for helping each other in the learning work. For all of us who are concerned that even the highly professional and highly motivated students will continue to evolve and their potential, I think it makes sense to conclude that the common school needs good friends and good critics.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e975	I would like to thank you for a good and nuanced debate, but also for a debate with a number of different points of view. I am pleased that we are going to present the high school message, because there we have gone through part of the research base we have on level-sharing, old syllabus systems, etc. What I can say right now, which was also the subject of the interpellant, is that we don't just have a good political justification for the common school. We also have a good professional justification for the common school and a research-based justification that we are not served – not the students who are struggling with some subjects, not the students who are far ahead in some subjects – to make a systematic level-sharing that is such that in the 12- to 13-year-olds you have to make choices that will lead the rest of the education cycle and for career choices. And it's not like you've seen a lot of money in sports picking talents and specializing in them at the earliest possible time. On the contrary, they're holding back a little – bets on the latitude for a long time to include many children, and then eventually specialize a little. In addition, it is quite strange for the Norwegian tradition to think more Eastern European and do as you did in old Eastern bloc countries, that is, to pick talents and drive them into special races, without contact with someone who does not have exactly the same kind of talents as yourself. Actually, they don't necessarily win in the ski track every time either. So here we have to have a knowledge-based and, of course, value-based political debate. There are some myths about leveling that it's important that we have a reflected and proper discussion around. I think part of the challenges in Norwegian school, with troubles and unrest and teachers struggling to get the whole width of students to calm down and concentrate on what they're going to, is also about students with special talents not having enough to break on. It's about not holding up the motivation. It's not necessarily that there'll be silent and disciplined students. There may also be quite rough and demanding students. So for the whole community and for the development of all children, we're better served with an adapted training where those who have very special talents also have the opportunity to follow a progress that goes beyond the community. That's where we started. But we should have much greater ambitions in getting more high school students to follow up to high school, both in the professional directions and in the more theoretical directions we have now. But the TAF system is just a slightly different way of thinking about how to combine study specialisation and professionalism. With a little bit more variation and width of this and a discussion that we should have about expanding the possibility of more subjects, I think we can better hit for children with different assumptions. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e992	The President will ask that speaking time be observed. That being the case, it is no. 12 completed. Case No. 13–15 are interpellations, and the President will propose, with reference to Paragraph 64 of the Rules of Procedure, to derogate from the general procedure for interpelling debates by discussing them together. The three interpellations are largely related to the same theme and are addressed to the same Council of State. – No one has requested the floor to do so, and it is deemed to have been decided that the case No. 13, 14 and 15 are treated together.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1040	The President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 12 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: First, the three interpellants get up to 10 minutes each. Furthermore, the Minister of Knowledge will have up to 15 minutes. Then open for up to 15 speakers with a speaking time of up to 5 minutes each. Finally, the three interpellants and the Minister of Knowledge are given one post each, up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The President will further refer to the inter-pelling texts, which appear on agenda No. 68, and will also deviate from common practice, because the President will not read the three interplay texts in a row. The first speaker is interpellant Marianne Aasen, then interpellants Aksel Hagen and Anne Tingelstad Wøien.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1053	This interpellant debate has a slightly special form. There are three interpellations on bullying that merge into one debate, with the intention of having a big and broad discussion on a theme that unfortunately remains very topical and important in the Norwegian school debate. We also experience a broad cross-political commitment on this issue at the Stortinget and in the Church, Education and Research Committee. In addition, Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen has shown great attention to this topic from the first day as the responsible State Council for the field of education. In addition, my impression is that this is getting a lot of attention in local media, in central media, and not least in social media, and that it is a broad and large commitment. There are a lot of people involved in the debates. We want to focus on prevention, we want to focus on what tools we should offer schools when bullying gets a serious character and more skills are needed than the schools have at their disposal. We also want to focus on the legal certainty of students. Not long ago, a bully was mentioned in a locality in the East. Jenta herself wrote an article describing what it was like to have been plagued from 1st to 4th grade. The family felt that the school did not take the matter seriously enough. The school experienced that they just did it. Jenta changed school in fourth grade. Nevertheless, the family took the matter up with the county manager, who examined the matter and the school's handling. According to the newspaper, this ended in a frame-salt criticism of the school and the municipality's handling. The conclusions were as follows: The school's handling of bullying is not good enough. The school should have intervened at a much earlier time. The school was to decide on proposals from the vice-president. The school should have evaluated the measures they themselves took towards the student. The school's procedures to ensure the obligation of action under the Training Act have not been complied with. There is a failure in the school's internal control system, etc. It was a pretty ramsal conclusion in addition, without me referring to it now. The head of school in the municipality took the statement from the county manager very seriously, but it was only when the parents experienced that the matter was taken seriously by the municipality. The school does not take self-criticism in the way the school has handled the matter, but they take the self-criticism that they will be better able to document what they have done. It is impossible for outsiders to assess whether the documentation was the problem in this case, or what was done at the school with the girl and the conditions in the class – as it is of course in many other cases. The reason I refer to this case is that the way I experience it, this is a typical bully that has locked itself. In addition to the systemic weaknesses pointed out by the county council, this also shows the need for a third body to enter a mecler role and assist when the school-child relationship has been established. In this context, it is worth mentioning a debate that we had not so long ago, on the initiative of the Christian People's Party, on bullying agents, students' representatives, or how to put in place point skills in such bullying cases. For me, it is obvious that we need such an instrument, but the government parties are not prepared to make a concrete conclusion on just how we are going to do it now. The exchange of school is in any case a failure statement. This is not how conflicts should be resolved. At the same time, it is possible to understand parents who choose such an option if nothing else leads to it. But it has to be clear that it's the last way out. Many people find it unfair that it is the bully victim who has to change school, not the bully. Nevertheless, I believe the answer is that no one should switch schools. Norwegian legislation is really quite clear. The Training Act shall ensure a safe school environment and a good learning environment for all children. Nevertheless, it is a fact that we as legislators have to deal with, that no case in Norway has led to a conviction in the judiciary. According to the 2010 Student Survey, approximately 8.5 pst. by Norwegian students bullying at least twice a month. This is unacceptable. Joint national supervision from 2010 shows that most schools have plans and routines, but that teachers and employees too little stop offensive behaviour in school everyday life. Despite the fact that the Training Act provides a basis for punishment if the school does not intervene in bullying, we have no case-law in this area. I often find it interesting to look at neighboring countries – societies that are quite similar to us. In Sweden, the school owner may be required compensation. There, students and children's representatives have claimed compensation for the school owner in 90 cases so far. In most cases, the school owner has paid. But if they don't, the case may come before a court. As far as I'm concerned, it's approx. ten cases which have been brought before the Court of Justice and two have been convicted in the courts. It is important for me to stress that bullying cannot be solved in the legal system. The justice system is not the place to bring down the big bullying payments. But there are two reasons why we should do something in relation to making the school owner responsible if students are plagued for a long time without action being taken. One is the signal effect, which is that we as legislators should give a clear and clear signal that we want zero tolerance in terms of bullying in school. The second is that I think such a sanction will lead to an increase in the school owner's intensity. Two cases, which we've seen in Sweden, are not a big number. But if there's a rift behind the mirror, I think it could lead to prevention. How to solve it legally with regard to all of these things must be investigated first, as the Storting is known to be going on. I guess that's what the Council of State will come up with. Many teachers and school leaders are making a huge effort to combat bullying — every day, every week. Many parents are engaged, and there are often demanding conflicts, including for those who are defined as bullies and their parents. It's not an easy situation to be in either. This is why prevention is important, but other speakers after me are going to get closer to it. But it is also important that we have concrete measures on the table when the problem becomes too big. A topic that has been little advanced in the debate, and which I want to draw out, are students who experience bullying from teachers. Today it's 4 pst. Which says they're being bullied weekly by the teacher. That's also 4 pst. which experience it monthly, according to data from the 2010 Student Survey. I think we need to work more systematically around just this. For what does a schoolleader do with such findings? Are there routines in all municipalities on what to do? I'm not sure. It is also possible to understand, because it may be even more difficult to resolve in a situation where the school's own employees are directly involved in the conflict. It's always up to us adults who have to be responsible. But it may be difficult to detect bullying, it may be difficult to find the right solutions and handle bullying, and to find the right measures in all the different cases. But it has to be clear that we as adults are responsible for intervention. As politicians, we are responsible for showing the way and using the means at our disposal. And then I finally want to say that all adults are role models for children. We should strive to behave properly – or as someone said at a parent's meeting I was: the most important thing is to show popular manners. If we make it, we'll get far. Talking is better than talking backwards. Ros is better than rice. Shots are better than jaws, even in the public room. And then we should all bring out the neighboring crumb in us and listen to her voice when it's required.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1116	Then the next speaker is the interpellant in case no. 14, Axle Hagen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1119	When one reads into this problem, we all discover, I think, that it's hard to define what bullying is, and what bullying isn't. But what unites us is at least that it's a phenomenon, a behavior that we're all opposed to. Good schools and good communities shall have the least of that kind of behaviour. That's why there's also a lot of good work going on in schools and around our community when it comes to bullying, and it's been doing it for years. But as the representative Marianne Aasen pointed out in his post, it's not enough. That's not good enough to achieve what we're after. Data can lead us to different conclusions here, but roughly it looks like we're about to rest on the spot when it comes to bullying in the last few years. That's not good enough, and it's maritimely particularly bad for all those who are directly affected by it. It's hard to define bullying when you're on the outside and you're going to create a term that, in the next round, is operational for all of us who want to work on this phenomenon. As well as Marianne Aasen was inside, it is difficult for anyone who is exposed to this, to know if he or she is in a bullying situation: am I now being bullied or not? My question specifically concerns this with digital bullying. In the question, I'm operating on the number 70 pst. It's getting so high just because most students seem to think that someone is going to be exposed to this phenomenon. It shows how big and serious it is. Other studies show that there may not be as many seas as seas are directly affected, but others are seen to be affected by it. When there seems to be an increasing problem with digital bullying, it may be related to the fact that we've just increased the use of digital media, so it's not certain that bullying itself is increasing, but that we're using digital media more and more. It makes us get an increasing curve in this area, which shows how important it is to tackle this. This definition debate is important. At the same time, a very important starting point for all of us is that the right of definition is for those who feel exposed to bullying. It doesn't necessarily mean that bullying is going on, but he has a sun clear right to put it on the agenda. Then someone should care somehow. I interpret the zero tolerance limit so that when someone feels bullyed, feels that now there is something bad and difficult that happens, this should be taken up. There are no excuses for not doing that. The issue today is particularly related to the school and the digital in connection with it. Actually, I might have wanted to ask the question in a more open and general way, but it's now in the church, education and research committee I'm sitting on. We all know that school mirrors society and can't protect itself from it, it can't shut society out. In this way, very often the problems of school become the problems of society and the vice versa. When that's the situation, and I think that's so typical of bullying, and not least digital bullying, both school and society have a common problem. Then school and society must also view this as a common responsibility for finding common responses to these kinds of problems. We can't approach the problem of digital bullying in school and get it solved independently of the general bullying problem in our society. It's definitely related to the digital part of it. I think we often give school, young people and young people a little too narrow focus in the sense that what's going on in school is particularly problematic, and then the rest of society gets a little bit free. It's like young people and young people who have the problem and are problematic, and then society can stand a little more on the outside and not get the same critical search light on it. It's stupid. It's basically stupid, because one shouldn't have different ethical standards in our society, so that certain groups have to behave more properly than the others, to say it that way. It's also very ineffective when it's maybe just a whole we're talking about here, and that one together has to find a solution to the problem. Especially when we come to digital bullying, this becomes clear in the sense that much of the bullying is going on digitally, not at the school arena, between students. It's going on in society, it's going on in all the arenas for all the hours of the day, and it's going on between groups, for example. between age groups. We still have many bad and repugnant examples in the daily press of how middle-aged and elderly men get in touch with young people, and perhaps especially girls, and then something is going on that – what to say – can be called bullying at least. I will comment on some possible measures, but I look forward to the Council answering my question. But I have some preconceptions about how we're going to approach this while we're waiting for, among other things. the investigation the University of Oslo will give us. First of all, a little bit about changes in the law: the representative Marianne Aasen had some considerations around it that initially, perhaps, the law is good enough, but that the practice for various reasons is too bad. It's definitely me, too. To go a little further: as we are talking here about such a complicated problem, I think one by breaking the law should initially be very careful to believe that we can reach this far with punishment and fines and that kind of action. I think it's absolutely right that all students, parents, teachers and school owners agree that bullying is unfortunate in all sorts of ways. When this happens, however, there is more to it that there is someone who needs help in terms of skills and attention to do his job in a more active and offensive way, putting it on the agenda than today. Then it is not necessarily the threat of punishment that is the most effective way to do it, but simply positive ‘pronouncement’ — if we can use that word here too — show that we have confidence in the individual school, teacher and student, not least. If it's a group that's really against bullying, it's the students themselves. Let's in a more positive way help and encourage, among other things. national authorities, that this is raised on the agenda. In this regard, we have an interesting debate on supervision. Supervision is very important in detecting and highlighting deviations. I know that many of those in charge of supervision could want them to have some more resources and time, maybe some clear calls for more help and guidance into those environments that need help and guidance. Much of what is revealed through municipal supervision is often the same from municipality to municipality. In this way, it may not be necessary to have so many different types of supervision until the problem is discovered, and resources can be used to help all to solve the problem that has been identified by some municipalities and school owners through supervision. I'm very happy that we've got a manifesto against bullying. But given that bullying is as much a social problem, perhaps that manifesto could be extended to become a municipal manifesto, almost a community manifesto, where the whole community can put bullying on the agenda in a good way, for example. To say that Lom municipality – which otherwise does well – we have learned here earlier today – should be a bully-free municipality, and then the whole community will work together to sort this out and work on it. I think that's very clearly going to give positive signals to the school. Maybe it's the school that has a lot to learn away to the community about how to approach bullying. As I know the school, teachers, students and parents have for many years put this on the agenda and tried to work on it, while we out in society have hardly given the problem any attention. I want to end with a quote from SV's work programme. It says: ‘The school must provide students with a digital judgment.’ It should be changed at the next crossroads for us to: Society needs to develop a digital judgment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1156	The next speaker is the interpellant in case No. 15, Anne Tingelstad Wøien.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1159	‘You must not sit in your home safely Saying, It is sad, poor them. You can't take so much heartily. The wrong that doesn't hit you! I cry with the last breath of my voice: You're not allowed to go there and forget!" These words are taken from Arnulf Upperland’s poem ‘You must not sleep’. Although this is written for a completely different matter than bullying, I think it fits well as the headline of our debate today. Now the two previous interpellants have both drawn threads to what they think is necessary responses to unacceptable behaviour, and pointed out the major challenges of the emergence of digital bullying. In this way, we have a good basis for discussing prevention and how we should not use sanctions or get bullying online at all. We are regularly presented with heartbreaking stories from young people and adults who have been bullied. It's the mob victims' stories that arrest us. They are the ones who have to stand up and tell about how it feels and how it has shaped their lives and perhaps destroyed them as well. It's great that they're standing up. It shows strength by doing it! Still, I want to stop at the bully. No one's born a bully. There's something we learn on the way as we grow up interacting with other people. We've had a lot of focus on the bullies in relation to how we're going to punish them and "pick them" unacceptable and offensive behavior and ask them to take responsibility for their own actions. It's very important. I still think it makes sense to think through what we can learn from them. When I prepared for today's debate, I facilitate literature and online articles where bullying sails stand out with their own stories and reasons why they became bullying. I haven't found much. It's a paradox when we're talking about prevention. But the VG 'Bry you' campaign has been of help. You could say a lot about campaign journalism, but at least they've asked bullies. One of those who stood up didn't quite know why he became a bully, but he thought it might be because he would avoid becoming a victim's sail, and because he would claim himself. A large proportion of VG/Infact’s research on bullying pointed out that they bullied because they joined when others did, that is, as a group. 17 pst. in the survey pointed out that they did not like the person as the main cause of the bullying. The whole one out of four admitted to having the bully. Still, it's hard to get anyone to admit it publicly. This indicates that there is an activity that is not at all so satisfied in retrospect. The reasons why some bullies are probably very complex. I haven't seen anywhere that you can justify bullying solely on a social basis. It's not that much about where you're from. It is about sea level, sea level, empathy and compassion for others, maritime control and safety. That's why it's too easy to say that bullies come from home with a bad assignment. I don't want to be involved in carrying stone to the burden of anyone. It does not help the case, either bullying or bullying. Taking the role of bullying is about raising seas, about group expectations, about believing that you show strength, about getting out your own frustration and anger, about responding to the lack of security in your own growing up situation, and it can also be about lack of empathy and lack of acceptance for inequalities. Therefore, homes, kindergartens and schools need help to build environments where inequalities are accepted, provide feedback on positive behaviour and on empathetic actions, where they build marine life and a good sea view and have clear and clear boundaries and consequences. It sounds very simple – it's really hard. So these are all elements that also characterize a good working and learning environment. So target number one in terms of prevention must be getting rid of the bullies. Then I do not mean physically to send them away or leave them to others, but make sure that these uvesena never sees the light of day in the first place. I want to refer to the epilogue in the book of Kristin Oudmayer, 'Because I deserve it? A book about bullying, hope and responsibility». She has called the epilogue: Dialogue – not duel. Oudmayer's just about to expand our focus. Bullying is not just the school's problem, nor the government's alone. The parties' denunciation and accusations do not help either. She points out how important it is that we all dare to talk openly about the responsibilities that each of us has with regard to the positions that we communicate where, as has previously been raised here today. How do we act as role models? We must not forget that the most important job is done before bullying and its consequences are a fact. Bullying is complex, and extermination requires a complete focus from each of us," says Oudmayer. In the VG campaign, she reiterates the importance of understanding why bullying occurs. "That so many admit it, underpins that we must be more curious about who the bully is, and what a function it has for him to bully," she says. So doing bullying work is not just up to the homes, the school or the municipalities alone. It's about what you and I do and what kind of attitudes we communicate. Focusing on how we can avoid someone becoming a bully may seem easy, but is probably the most difficult of all – in all its simplicity. The basic school law states in § 9a-1: ‘All pupils in primary and secondary schools are entitled to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning.’ And § 9a-3 says: ‘The school shall work actively and systematically to promote a good psychosocial environment in which individual students can experience security and social inclusion.’ This means that, as school administrators, we have a great responsibility to prevent bullying, and I believe that the government and the Minister of Knowledge have taken a good deal of action in putting bullying on the agenda. The student surveys are a barometer of the ongoing work being carried out. It is very important that this is followed up. In the Manifesto against bullying 2011–2014, as the government presented in the spring, there is a great deal of emphasis on anchoring the work against bullying locally. Research shows that a prerequisite for success in the work against bullying is that the school works systematically, purposefully and over time with the problem. The targeted work is answered in different ways in the different municipalities and schools. Some schools think they are systematically working with the psychosocial environment without their own anti-poverty programmes; others work systematically after such programmes. It makes me wonder if one can compare it to two departments in a hospital are occupied with hand hygiene and have rules for it, while the third believes it is okay with hand hygiene, but has no common rules. The prevention of bullying is about helping to create a good environment. It implies clear expectations of positive behaviour and clear boundaries of infringing behaviour. School owners have an important role to play. Students’ responses to the 2010 Student Survey show that the learning environment generally deteriorates from 5 to 10 steps. It is important to focus early efforts on building a good environment, too, but there may be reason to analyse in more detail how one in its municipality can contribute to increasing the well-being environment and thus the learning environment as one progresses. Is this where we lose the uniform culture? The rectors have an overall responsibility to contribute to a good environment in their school. This applies both within the college, in the classes and in the outdoors. There are also teachers who bully, and these uvesena are not allowed to grow. It should also not be possible to bully teachers. So the principal and teacher involved are, once again, very important. The teacher must be engaged in both the subject he is going to teach and the students he is going to teach. It is not possible to separate this and to leave the psychosocial environment to other occupational groups. The responsibility for a good learning environment lies with all school staff and is integrated into all school activities — at all times. The decline in the use of anti- bullying programmes is not necessarily a sign that they are functioning poorly, but that they can be too expensive and that they are not integrated into the culture of the school. Instead of proposing to cut funds for such programmes, the Education Directorate should, in my view, have listened to the many schools that testify to the positive experience of using such programmes through continuous work for a good learning environment where such programmes may be useful. Then I want to raise a project that I think is exciting, and to which I attach expectations. It is research-based and supported by the Education Directorate and also includes my own municipality of residence, Gran. In Hadeland, all three municipalities are included in the project Better Learning Environment. It includes a total of 19 elementary schools and 371 teachers. The project focuses on creating the good learning environment, and it focuses on the teacher. I am happy to follow the project forward and see if it produces results in the Student Survey, which is being carried out in Hadeland. We make great demands on our teachers. They have a very important job. And in order for them to also be able to do a good prevention job, I think we all need to think carefully about how we can help make it easier for them to comply with the basic school law § 9a. It's about everyone's attitudes and their dissemination. By launching a new manifesto to the municipalities, the government signals that it has expectations for the follow-up to the anti- bullying work in the school. I am therefore interested to hear what the Council of State believes the national authorities can specifically assist in the local work, both through the manifesto and in other ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1239	First, I want to thank you for giving me the opportunity to present a slightly comprehensive view of the issue of bullying. When three interpellants – clearly interpellants – want to focus on this, it gives a very good opportunity to get a width in the picture, and also invites the rest of the Storting to join in. I am absolutely sure that there is a great cross-political commitment in the matter, in itself, to inspire and keep a local focus on the important work of a good learning environment and the fight against bullying – and as such is a measure to reduce bullying. On 27 January this year the government and the central parties signed a new Manifesto against bullying. Eight parties now commit to four new years of cooperation against bullying. The manifesto has been, and is, an important national platform for the fight against bullying. It contributes to attention around bullying, and many important measures have been launched as part of the manifest work. However, we need to revitalize the work on the manifest, primarily by anchoring the manifest more strongly locally. At national level, we can opt out of bullying as much as we want, but to get rid of bullying, we need to work continuously against bullying in each municipality and in each school systematically over time every day. That is why we invited the rapporteurs in the municipalities of the country to join us in the manifest work by signing a local manifesto. We have invited rapporteurs to make manifest work a broad cooperation project within their municipality, involving all relevant actors. We have taken on board what is involved in the growth of children and young people and the special responsibility of the school to ensure a good learning environment. But it will be that the rest of society and the municipalities that think even a little bit wider have a lot to learn from how the school works to prevent bullying and to resolve conflicts once they get there. So I think it's interesting that some municipalities actually think wider than just school, children and the growing-up environment, because then both adults and children can work together on a different culture of conflict resolution as well. The last time I checked how many rapporteurs and municipalities had signed up, the number had reached 150 municipalities, and that is more than a third of all municipalities. We see that the municipalities are quite different. Some people have chosen very specific areas they want to bet on, while others want a much wider bet on the entire learning environment. It is a pleasure to see that the rapporteurs from all parties have signed up for the Manifesto against bullying. We just need this cross-political pressure that we seem to have achieved on the Stortinget, down to local level too. Municipalities already have a statutory responsibility for working with the learning environment and against bullying. The local manifesto of the municipalities sign, underline and clarify this responsibility. Our intention, and our clear expectation, is that the municipal manifestos should give new impetus to the municipal work against bullying, make the municipalities aware of their responsibilities and contribute to a broad municipal effort against bullying, anchored by political leadership. Then, of course, we're going from national teams to support the work of municipalities. An action we launch through manifesto work is to launch annual campaigns around school start-ups. The campaigns will focus on specific issues that are particularly central to bullying, and will build up under and support local efforts to combat bullying. The Manifesto Against Bullying Working Group is now working on the design of the campaign for the autumn of 2011, and the theme is digital bullying. Many municipalities and schools use different programmes in their work against bullying. We are going to continue to support programmes, but we are going to develop a set of criteria that need to be met if a programme is to receive support. These criteria are under development, but the programme is research-based and has a good implementation or implementation plan will be an important part of this. It must be stressed that the use of programmes is not the only way a school can work well with the learning environment. For some schools, programmes can be a proper procedure, while others choose their own arrangements. I'm not going to go into a long discussion here about whether programmes are effective or not, but I'm going to say that what the research clearly shows is that it's the long-term, holistic and systematic work that affects the learning environment and the bullying – regardless of whether or not programs are used. One of the most important measures we have taken to assist local work is the improvement of the learning environment. This is a five-year bet, among other things. includes a comprehensive research-based guidance material for use by school owners and schools. The material takes into account key elements of the learning environment, such as class management and cooperation between home and school. There is a great deal of knowledge of both the investment and the material in the sector. We have also supported local projects to improve the learning environment. A total of 86 schools have received support, and we will evaluate the impact of these projects. We have invested in the learning environment both in the new education offer for teachers, in teacher training and in the provision of training for teachers. These are measures we will certainly see the effects of in the long term. Today’s legislation has been called into question enough to ensure that the school immediately intervenes in serious bullying situations, how we can better make it clear than we do today that bullying accidents are going to have consequences, and how national authorities can help municipalities and single schools to get more tools in the fight against bullying. In order to provide me with the best possible basis for responding to this, I have, as mentioned on several previous occasions, also from this pulpit, ordered an investigation from the University of Oslo. The mandate of this investigation states that it is necessary to consider whether the Training Act is known and used sufficiently to prevent bullying and address situations where students are being bullied or experiencing discrimination and harassment. Furthermore, it stated in the mandate that experience should be gained from schemes with independent control committees/committees for pupils. It shall be assessed whether there is a need to strengthen the support and guidance offered to students and parents in such cases, including how this can be done. With regard to the former legal instruments against bullying, the current training law, its possibilities and limitations in relation to bullying, discrimination and harassment shall be assessed. It will therefore be assessed to what extent the applicable training law is an appropriate tool in the fight against bullying. Furthermore, if it is considered to have limitations, it will be assessed what changes should be made to the law in order to strengthen it as a legal instrument for combating bullying. With regard to the second theme, student ombudsman, it will be assessed whether there is a need to establish a student ombudsman scheme and, if so, what tasks such an ombudsman may have. In this context, it will also look at the tasks of such an ombudsman and its interface with other bodies, and whether it is one of the already existing ombudsman functions that can be expanded. The investigation is available before summer. I find it unnatural to address the very specific questions that the investigation will consider before it is available. But I can say that it's not accidental that the investigation has been ordered, and that we just want better answers to the questions we're asking. I think it's time to look at what we can do here – not because it's a goal for us to get more schools or school owners convicted of bullying accidents, but because it can help to emphasize the seriousness. In any case, the aim is to prevent and take seriously, to minimise bullying and, when it occurs, to resolve it as quickly as possible. What we already know, on the basis of both supervision in 2010 and a review of complaints by the county councillors, is that there is often a lack of competence and knowledge about the school owner's legislation and the schools. Similarly, we know that many students and parents are not aware of their rights in bullying. We continue to monitor the school’s psychosocial environment in 2011 and will emphasise the closure of deviations identified through supervision, i.e.: You don't give up until it's cleaned up. Oversight also has an important guiding role for schoolleaders and schoolowners. We have asked the Education Directorate to develop templates for schools and parents that can be used for complaints about the psychosocial environment. Checklists will also be developed for the schools that they can follow in their work on the school’s psychosocial environment. In addition, the Education Directorate has recently developed a new guidance guide for the school’s work on bullying. This guide is sent to all the country's schools. Digital bullying is a new phenomenon that has emerged in the wake of technological developments in recent years. Digital bullying is about everything from ugly or hurtful online and mobile messages to publishing unwanted photographs or videos. Digital bullying of children and young people is a new challenge for adults. Many parents and teachers have neither competence nor knowledge of what children and young people media everyday look like in practice, and have difficulty discovering and detecting this kind of bullying. Although much of the digital bullying can be hidden from many adults, it is very visible to children and young people. They get great knowledge of what is written and uploaded on different websites. In many ways, digital bullying is even worse than traditional bullying because it can often stay out on the net for long periods and is repeatedly experienced by both the victim himself and by a potentially large number of spectators. Some studies may illustrate the extent. In the ‘Children and digital media 2010’ survey of the Media Authority, please specify 10 pst. of children aged 9 to 16 years of age who have been bullied by electronic media, while 6 pst. indicates that they have been bullied or threatened via their mobile phone. In a recently published European survey on children’s and young people’s online habits, ‘EU Kids Online II’, researchers find that 8 pst. Norwegian children report having been bullied online in the last year. Compared to other European countries, Norway appears to be poor. The most common type of online bullying is getting bad or hurtful messages, or that messages about yourself are being published, so that others can see it. So how are we gonna grab hold of the digital bully? First of all, I would like to stress that Norway has a good starting point for working against digital bullying. In that survey, ‘EU Kids Online II’, 97 pst. of the children in Norway that the teacher has engaged in their online use, and 97 pst. the parents are actively committed to providing them with a safe use. Both results are highest in Europe. Norwegian children are also above the European average in online skills. This means that we have a good basis here to get rid of digital bullying, and that their high consumption of social media can help explain the high figures in Norway. So we know that many of those that bully digitally are the same people who experience more traditional bullying. It's not like there's one group being bullied at school, and one group being bullied digitally. This means that general measures against bullying will also be important to reduce digital bullying. As with traditional bullying, we must encourage children and young people to say when they discover bullying. The silent viewer is an equal problem with digital bullying – if not larger. Children and young people have firsthand knowledge of these matters, and they tend to discover them long before adults do. I think a lot of this is about net wit. Children and young people need to know what is allowed online and what limits apply. They must be aware that the web is not a haven for a kind of behavior that would never have been tolerated in other arenas or if you stood directly opposite each other. We adults have a responsibility here, too. It's scary to see how well grown people behave online. Adults must go ahead with a good example in terms of turf. Digital bullying, such as bullying, is subject to the criminal provisions of the Training Act § 9a-7, which violates the provisions of Chapter 9a. This means that this provision can affect a municipality as a school owner or for example. an employee of a school who does not fulfil his obligation of warning or action under the law. With regard to the bullying person, the general criminal provisions of the criminal law apply. To be put forward, for example: threats by digital means are affected by the provisions of the Criminal Code in line with threats posed by other means. It's not clear even if you're acting digitally. It is important that children and young people become aware of this. Digital skills are now considered basic skills in line with reading, writing, billing and verbal representation. We have to make sure that when we teach students about the use of ICT, this also has to include an ethical dimension. We have to send the students online with digital education. Several campaigns have been launched to combat digital bullying. I can come back to it at a later stage. I just want to end by saying that I'm very happy that there's a broad commitment from the extreme left to the extreme right in the fight against bullying. I think that's an important signal to give to the local level as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1302	First, I would like to thank the inter-pellants and the Council of State for their excellent input into this matter. It's very good that we get a big and comprehensive debate about bullying here. Bullying occurs too often and is too often ignored, and no action is taken or too late. Many teachers and parents find it hard to know what to do when one discovers that a student in the class or one's own child is being bullied. It may be extra difficult to know what to do when you suspect that your own child is a bully. How are school and parents going to talk about bullying to end it? That we focus on bullying and that it is written about it, I am convinced that can contribute. Then a lookup or a campaign is a good introduction to one, for some adults, difficult topic. In the fall, the NRK Super rolled up the BlimE campaign. This campaign is targeting younger children. The main message of the campaign is to inspire children to care and show respect for each other. The slogan in the campaign is ‘Si hey, be a friend’. The NRK has made something as simple as turquoise plastic bracelets. These have been torn away and are very popular. The campaign has a simple message that everyone understands. This is an important campaign to prevent bullying, especially among younger children. I believe that bullying must primarily be prevented. Children must understand as early as possible what bullying can cause, and how important it is to have a friend and be a friend, as the NRK focuses on through a simple and easily understandable message. In recent months the World Times, as mentioned earlier in the debate, have also run their own campaign of bullying called ‘Bry you’. Early this month the paper wrote about a story that moved me especially; a story about girl bullying, where the bullying became gross violence. A girl tells of an episode when she was going to town with some friends: "I was kicked and beaten against my head, which was also sunk in the asphalt. Was lying in the foster position and just received. I thought I'd die." There was a trial of this, and the bullies were sentenced to social punishment and a restraining order. Just after the trial and the verdict, the bullies attacked new victims. I'm startled by young girls resorting to violence. Studies over the past ten years have shown that violence among girls is increasing both in Norway and internationally. This is a relatively new problem for many teachers. You've always had to deal with fights between boys. Here, it's not necessarily necessary to be so much behind. It could be a one-time thing, and I think maybe boys are better off putting fights behind them. They may be friends again the next day, while hatred among girls stabs deeper. Teachers need tools to handle this as well. It's very good that the media focuses on bullying through such campaigns. We know that when it's written about this, and we politicians talk about it, the bullies go down. We need more focus on bullying, both digital bullying and bullying in traditional terms. This must be part of kindergarten teacher training and primary school teacher training. Greed among girls must also be on the agenda. For many teachers, it may be reasonable to obtain relief for this type of handling. This is why we need other groups of professionals at school — in these cases, protective nurses, who can be employed as environmental therapists and social teachers. In addition, there is a need for more social educators, as I see it. At the lower levels, an important measure could be to improve the outdoor environment. When the kids have a lot to do and have a high activity in the spare minutes, I think it's going to be less bullying. Then they have other things to do. Another feedback that I've received is that the investigation into child and youth psychiatry has to go faster, because many of those who bully themselves need help. The representative Hagen takes up the problems of digital bullying in particular, what I'll call the invisible bullying, the bullying that is impossible for the teacher and the school manager to see. With technology, this has become a bigger problem. Children and young people send SMSes with content that supports the recipient and the network has become a new arena for bullying. Images posted on the Internet may be available to many and difficult to remove. They can pursue you for years to come. This is an important topic which is good for us to be put on the agenda in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1333	The fact that three representatives from the position, who have a majority in addition to the Stortinget, have raised important interpellations that shed light on combating bullying in school and through social media and SMS shows the importance of the fight against bullying. Much has been said in the debate already showing how difficult it is to get bullying alive. Being focused on bullying is of great importance in combating this. That's why these interferences are important. They also show that the opposition is not the only one who believes that the government is not doing enough in the fight against bullying. It is argued that in too many cases employees and principals do not intervene against bullying. I wonder if the teachers and the principals have been asked why they don't intervene. The answer could perhaps be interesting and also show us what is missing in today's legislation. It is stressed by many teams that bullying must be combated locally. Therefore, it is positive that many municipalities have signed the manifesto, as well as that many have their own rules of procedure. It is the school owner who is responsible and who is practically the students on a daily basis and has the greatest opportunity to respond to bullying. But this presupposes the use of the legislation. It is also important that the school owner has clear national guidelines for combating bullying. The Education Directorate has been given advice and resources for the school – material for overall work on the learning environment. It says: ‘Non-regulatory enforcement contributes to problem behaviour and concerns. Many studies confirm that there is a lack of legal clarity and inconsistent law enforcement as a contributing factor in problem behaviour and concerns at school. The use of rules and consistent law enforcement is highlighted as an active strategy to promote social skills and desirable behaviour not only in primary school but also in secondary school. But most effective is good law enforcement when combined with active prosocial learning with the emphasis on praise, encouragement and learning of social skills. The contribution of the rules to providing the necessary safety and predictability is particularly important for students who may experience a lack of consistency and predictability in life. If unforeseeability and inconsistency are also practices at school, it will contribute to increased uncertainty and border-tested and negative behaviour.’ This is in full agreement with the Progress Party. But then comes the following, which I have problems understanding: ‘It is a major advantage if the rules focus less on obedience and adaptation. The main purpose of the rules is not to discipline and control the students. The rules should appeal more to students’ sense of responsibility, empathy and cooperation.’ For my part, I have always interpreted it to you that sense of responsibility and cooperation are fundamental prerequisites for being able to feel and care about others, show empathy. Nor can I see that obedience and adaptation to and within the school community should lead to students being subjected to control and discipline of such a nature as to harm them, or to their becoming less independent, self-thinking and critical. I'm a lot of rescuers for the signals this gives to combat bullying. That's why I believe that this supervisor is unclear, and I agree to doubt how the teacher and the school management are going to deal with bullying. It might have been interesting to hear the Council's opinion on the interpretation of this point in the light of combating bullying. If we are to get a good learning environment that preserves the individual's sense of belonging, well-being and security, I think that a review of the different national legislations in order to reduce them so as to replace them with fewer but clearer rules that make school owners responsible and provide opportunities for sanctions if school administrators do not intervene against bullying, would have helped a lot. The Party also assumes that the responsible school management will be clearly informed of the measures that can be taken to combat bullying, so that doubts can be overcome. This can also make it easier to intervene against bullying. The party of progress will also have a school representative to care for parents who do not reach school management. At the same time, it is important to point out that the fight against bullying is a shared responsibility and must be combated in all arenas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1363	At first I just want to say that I think it was both natural and right to deal with these three interactions together, but it would be valuable if the members of the committee had been informed about it. There is a big difference between a debate where you only get the floor once in a five-minute speech and a debate in which you prepare for two or three five-minute speeches. This should have been systematically communicated. Randomly, I got to know it yesterday. So I would say that it's very good, albeit in a somewhat unusual form, that today we're getting a debate about bullying where we see the problem in a bigger context than what we've often experienced here in the hall. I think that's important and correct. Bullying occurs for many different reasons, in many different contexts, in many different ways, and is handled in many different ways by bullying, bullying and people who discover it. It makes it challenging to find the right measures to reduce the problem. It also says that there is not one single, but several measures that need to be taken to deal with the problem. It is frightening that while focusing on bullying from several teams, the problem seems to be increasing. It is terrible to think that every day there are many children and young people who have hurt their stomachs on the way out in a new day because of bullying. The representative Tingelstad Wøien refers to the need for long-term, targeted and systematic work to change attitudes. I fully support that, even on the basis of my own experience. It's great to experience that it works and changes attitudes. It's great to see when those who used to be the main bully take responsibility and stop others who don't treat each other well, when those who used to give the bluff in everything, become those who always care about how others do. Have you experienced and seen such transformation, and I have seen it, you will forever believe in preventive, mind-building work. In my municipality, the MOT program worked, and still works well. Other applications may be used. I am pleased that the Council of State has confirmed that this will continue to be part of the work, and I want the Council of State to be ready for the expectation that resources will now be allocated to preventive work in the municipalities. We can probably say that in a day-to-day economy, it is municipalities that look at costs, even if they are low, as an obstacle to doing targeted prevention work. It is therefore natural to ask whether the Council of State is willing to look at support schemes for those municipalities that can document interventions. The representative, Hagen, is addressing a challenge that seems difficult for many of us to address. He refers to the increase in bullying through digital media. It happens in a world that we're a little bit involved in, not because we don't use digital media, but because form and arena are largely unknown to us. It makes it hard to discover, and it makes it hard to observe. It leads me into two tracks. The first concerns competence. Both the detection and follow-up of bullying are demanding. It is therefore important to develop skills in this area among teachers, school managers and health professionals. In addition, digital bullying requires competence in the media used and how they are used. I hope the Council of State will follow up on ensuring that such competence is part of both new education and, in particular, the provision of further training. The second track I want to comment on is channels for dialogue with the mob victims and the mobs. We've previously discussed bullying agents as an alternative, and we're talking about the staff of the schools. I think we'll experience that none of these options have very low thresholds for those that apply. The digital world we're talking about here as a new challenge can also be a solution. I think just dialogue through digital media can be a solution. Last week I had a meeting here at Stortinget with a engaged and competent lady who would like to help the mob victims. Therefore, she would like to set up a really low threshold for those who are being bullied, assuming that it is professional staff who respond. The council got a small folder about this, and I hope we can open together some doors it seems difficult to open to realize such a project. We have to find the right channels to be an offer. It's not easy to go to anyone and say from. We have a responsibility to facilitate it. I look forward to further follow-up both in this debate and in follow-up cases by the government, and hope we can take concrete steps that can help more – grips that may result in a improvement in the number of bullying cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1387	It's almost touching to see all the interferences about bullying today. This may indicate that there is a slightly suppressed need to try to show that the government's parties are also concerned about the matter, perhaps a result of the fact that they don't really like to vote down all the proposals that the opposition has promoted, which can help to increase the fight against bullying. I really think that what many students could want was more action and less talk in the fight against bullying. The three interpellations have different themes, and there is another representative from the Christian People's Party who will get into digital bullying. In 2002, the Bondevik II government launched Manifesto against bullying and launched its zero vision. The background was an increasing incidence of bullying in Norwegian schools and a strong media focus on negative developments. Schools were offered anti- bullying program with documented effect. While the bullying had increased by an average of 10 pst. in the year 1995–2001, bullying was reduced by 30 pst in 2004. Several studies, including in recent years, show that the development of red-greens has again gone wrong. A nationwide survey at the Behavioral Research Centre at the University of Stavanger shows that 28 000 students from 5th to 10th grade are bullied every week. There are 10,500 more students than in 2004, and that's 7,5 pst. of all the pupils in these classes of the year. We from the Christian People's Party believe that the fight against bullying in school must be intensified, and it must go on all the time. No one should have to worry about going to school because of bullying. First of all, bullying problems should be addressed locally in interactions between pupils, parents and school. But unfortunately, there are some cases where students and parents do not feel that the school is sufficiently gripped or able to find a solution. These families must avoid fighting the system in addition to the challenges they already face. That is why the Christian People's Party will have a bully in each state. The bullying officer shall be the voice of both pupils and parents and a resource in the ongoing effort to combat bullying and when the problem cannot be resolved locally. In Sweden, they have centrally placed children’s and students’ representatives who help bullying people to reach the judicial system and who require municipalities to pay compensation if it turns out that they have neglected. The Christian People's Party wants such a model to be used by the local representatives in the state of sanctions. NIFU made a very strong claim that anti- bullying program does not have an effect. In retrospect, it has been established that this conclusion is on a very failing basis. Among other things, we can read in an article by Anne Arnesen, Wilhelm Meek-Hansen and Terje Ogden on the newspaper's debate pages: ‘But it is incomprehensible that the Directorate for Education underestimates the value of actions based on and evaluated through research on such a thin basis as the conclusions of the NIFU report.’ In addition to the fact that the directorate would then conclude by withdrawing appropriations for these programmes, it is also proposed to highlight the importance of the directorate's promotion of the programmes. The first has been rejected by the Council of State in a commendable manner. As for the last one, I'm quite shocked at what the Council of State has let the Directorate do. The Bondevik government, as I said, offered schools an anti- bullying program with documented effects. Let me refer to how this has been applied to one of the programs. Since the beginning of 2003, 375 schools have participated in the Zero programme, divided into 175 schools in 2003 and 100 in 2004. Then came the Stoltenberg government in 2005. Then it was suddenly down in 41 schools, and in 2006 eleven. In 2007, there was a slight increase of 20 schools. In 2008, there were seven schools, in 2009 twelve and in 2010 nine. In the spring of 2011, it looks like there are five new schools, maybe some more, starting, because not all of them have decided yet. But then I come to what shocks me: Ever since 2003, except this year, the Education Directorate has invited the schools to participate in the Olweus programme and Zero every year. A request was sent to the Education Directorate if they could do so this year, but no response was received. The shock will not be reduced when we know that the Storting decided unanimously in the Inner East. S. No 262 for 2008-2009 on a proposal from the Christian People's Party: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals on how best to implement an anti- bullying programme or an action plan against bullying in all schools.’ This is not the way to fight bullying. I also expect the State Council to address this issue, and that the Education Directorate will again offer these anti- bullying programmes in schools, especially since they have a documented effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1421	A few weeks ago, I had a strong meeting with the youth company TØFF, seven girls from a high school in Trondheim who had as a business idea to travel to high school and give lectures on how it is to be a bullying victim. Two of the girls had themselves experienced serious and persistent bullying at high school, without the school having managed to put an end to it. The teacher and the school management had minimized it, and the girls didn't escape from bullying until they got to high school. Then they both got a new life, and they decided to stand up. It's bravely done to tell their story about how tough they had at high school. The girls told of great success with the talks. They had a contract with Trondheim Municipality to visit a number of high school schools in the municipality, and they told about their former bullies who had contacted and apologized. They also told us about high school students today – when they were in high school – who made contact in retrospect, who made themselves appear, or saw themselves in the role of passive bullies, who promised to settle with themselves and change their own behaviour. It's hard not to be affected by the history of these girls. I am becoming increasingly convinced that we have not shaken the necessary behind the mirror for teachers, school leaders and municipalities to intervene and take serious bullying, and the victims, seriously. I fully agree with the Aasen representative that it is a failure statement when bullying victims switch schools. On the other hand, I also have a lot of understanding for the parents who can't see that their kids almost go down because the school doesn't have the power to stop bullying. We know that students who are bullied, tapped for strength, lose concentration and ability to learn. Then it is very understandable that someone goes to the step of replacing school, when the school is unable to clean up in such circumstances. The government has given a mandate to legal expertise at the University of Oslo – to investigate, among other things. penalties for bullying and a bullying scheme. Right-wing encounters with anticipation the outcome of that investigation. Here it is clear that we should also look to Sweden and look at the sanctions that have been provided for, as the representative of Aasen also pointed out in his statement. In the past, the right has provided for more active use of the conflict councils in order to set clear limits and demonstrate that bullying has consequences. In my last growing-up period, I was on the Justice Committee. Then I visited, among other things. the South-Trendelag conflict council, which has had good experience of taking bullying into the conflict council. They arranged big meetings where all the people involved, both the bullies and the victims, met supporters, and where they actually managed to resolve what had been very locked up. We need to learn from that. We must also help to ensure that conflict advice elsewhere in Norway is able to resolve such conflicts. The right also has faith in an idea of connecting police contacts with schools and also involving the police in bullying. In many ways, it may seem that teachers and schools need other authorities to rely on to underline the seriousness of the situation, so that the bullies can see that there are some who see, and who are also able to tell something about the consequences when you go across all borders. The bullying party is important in order to raise awareness of the importance of combating bullying, but I would warn that someone can then believe that the job is done. That's when the job starts. I disagree a little with the representative Aksel Hagen, who believes that there should be further local manifestations. I think the important thing now is not more paper, but more intervention when bullying happens. If we are to succeed in anti- bullying, all adults must also go ahead with good examples, whether it's on Facebook profiles, on Twitter, on the football stand, or it's around the dinner table. The attitudes and actions of adults play a role in combating bullying and appearing as positive role figures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1442	First, I want to thank the interpellants for bringing up an important topic. The fight against bullying is a fight that we can't forget, and a fight that we can't lose. Then I would also like to say that I am pleased that the government has now followed up the Bondevik II mobbing party of the government, and also shows zero tolerance to digital bullying. It's digital bullying I want to focus on in my post. Digital bullying is a complex and unfortunately growing problem. The fact that there's been a huge development in a very short time makes this an even bigger challenge for many adults. Children are simply better than many adults to use data and mobile phones. A study conducted by Telenor shows that one in three parents feels that they have little or very little control over the use of mobile phones and the Internet by children. This makes bullying done on the Internet or on mobile phones easier to hide and often harder to deal with when adults don't know what's going on in these arenas. The bully no longer needs to stand face to face with the bullying victim. The bullyer must no longer see the despair of the other. This makes the ugly comments often worse than traditional bullying. When it is also possible to send anonymous messages, the threshold for sending a bad comment is much lower. The threshold is getting lower, and the consequences are getting bigger. Another study carried out by Telenor as late as in January this year shows that eight out of ten children feel that comments made online in writing are as bad or worse than getting them face to face. The fact that the "net captures" what is being laid out increases the helplessness of the victim, and the feeling of being isolated is getting worse. Children exposed to digital bullying have no refuges. They are available to say 24 hours a day on all kinds of digital media, which makes this type of bullying often feel worse than traditional bullying. It's no longer just at school the kids have to meet the bullies, the bullies can also reach them at home in the bedroom or when they're on vacation. All the arenas of the children are in everyday life, becoming unsafe, which means that digital bullying can have very serious consequences for children's development further. The fight against digital bullying must therefore be fought in many arenas. We who are adults and don't always understand what's going on when the kids are sitting on the data or the cell phone, have to engage us and get into this world. I believe that an important key in this work is just the parents. As mentioned earlier, parents often experience a helplessness in what they have little knowledge of. This is natural that the school can take hold of and help the parents with. Teachers need increased competence on the theme to facilitate their detection of this hidden form of bullying. The Christian People's Party is concerned with a good home-school collaboration. When it comes to digital bullying, I think close cooperation between parents and school can be the key. There is a need to grip both at school and at home. Then it's important that parents first know what's going on, and, second, how to deal with it. Organisations such as: The babysitting team is working a lot on this and has developed programmes to help both school and parents address the problem. Digital bullying is not prevented by refusing the use of data by children. As with traditional bullying, children must be taught to respect one another and that such acts are not permitted, nor on the Internet. At the same time, children need to be trained in the web, both when it comes to what you can spend on yourself, and what you can say and spend on others. The children need to be made aware of how serious an ugly comment during a picture on Facebook can be. The availability of digital media and the ease of sending a bad message or posting something online make it possible for many children to feel less serious. Comments by sender are meant to be more like a joke, but the receiver can consider them to be hurting. Schools and parents must dry to engage in this unknown world and be able to talk to the children about the consequences of bullying, not only in the schoolyard, but also online and mobile.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1461	This has been a very good debate, I think. It's not possible to comment on everything. It is precisely the intention to develop very many different views, simply because this is such a comprehensive and complicated topic. I would like to take up the Bondevik initiative, which I believe was very commendable, which in 2002 with Manifesto against bullying raised this issue on the national agenda in a way that no one had done before. In a way, we manage that legacy further, and I think the current government is doing it in an excellent way, but where we still have to hold a pressure, because I think it's also part of the story that there's a political pressure on it out in the schools. The fact that there is a lot of talk about it in the media results in consciousness in children and young people as well as in all those dealing with children and young people — the schools, the sports movement and all other areas where you are dealing with children and young people. Then I also believe that it is a good point and well documented that if you have a good learning environment where children have professional challenges in the hour, both the good and the weak, they in the middle and absolutely all, it is less bullying and plagiarism – that is, if they have it interesting and exciting, and if in addition it is so that school life in the spare minutes is also meaningful. There are many who go and sling in a schoolyard, which is quite boringly designed, with flat asphalt and nothing to do. Then the ideas of harassing others as a good alternative – unfortunately. So I'd also like to say to class management that it's very important that we focus on it in the education of teachers. Several have been in peace and discipline and order in the hour. It makes it much more unwieldy, not least to be able to detect bullying when there is a lot of anxiety. It is mentioned by getting other authorities in, ranging from police, conflict councils and programs to Kjetil & Kjartan. They have not been mentioned here, but there is also a good measure taken by the Education Directorate, which can also be used by the schools and the bullying/students. I think we have to think in a wide range of ways and put into practice a lot of the competences that many people have mentioned. Then I would also like to thank the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen for a good and broad review and an overall approach to it, which I think is very good. Finally, there's now a movie on the cinema called Jørgen + Anne = true. It's a lot about falling in love with young children, but it's also about conflicts between children who can be a little prodigy, and who can be a little sad. I recommend to see that. It's a very good movie. In addition, there's a scene there that's bad to look at. It's about something that's still going on in the schools, and it's about choosing a team in the gym. Much of this is happening in Norwegian school. I don't understand why it's like that. There's one thing the teachers have to grips with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1478	As a representative of the extreme left, as Mr Halvorsen mentioned to us, I would like to thank you for the debate and for the answer. That's a lot of agreement. There must be some opposition and position markings in such debates, for example. about this with the ‘ground facts’ and a little about different investigations. The broadest student survey shows, to put it that way, that there's more than enough mediation, and that it's about the status quo and it's been the last few years. There's too much, and that's the main point here. When it comes to research or research, it's hard to measure the impact of programs and plans, I don't think we're going to get too much panic around it. This is very difficult to measure in general. We can see that in many areas, including: as part of the feeling that when such programmes come, they are so well in progress that they do not need to use the means contained in such programmes, and can rightly say that they do as well as they do not use such programmes. I think it's okay that such statements come. So we know that this is going to continue, because we've been told that clearly. So a little bit to this with further manifestos, as Elisabeth Aspaker pointed out. That was good on my side. It goes on that I'm convinced that we don't get a bully-free school if the community around bullies. This must therefore be resolved in interaction with society. In order to take it a little further, as I tried in my post, it can be precisely that the school takes a leadership position by putting it on the agenda of the community, helping the community, and it can also indirectly help the school in a good way to address its own internal problems, especially digital bullying. For those students who are in school, they're Internet natives, who have been involved in the introductions here. They better understand what digital media is, and they can do so, precisely when it comes to bullying in the same media, be the best way to teach us what's going on outside of school, what's going on, and next time what we're going to do to reduce it. Then, like Marianne Aasen, I have a very strong sense of the broad approach that goes on in the overall learning environment and the psychosocial environment. Our ambitions should not primarily be to get rid of a problem, but it should be that we generally improve a learning environment and thus get rid of this bullying problem. So everything we do in different areas to make our school better, in different ways, will help to reduce the bullying problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1489	I would also like to thank you for a good debate. I would like to thank the Minister of Knowledge for the statement she has had, and for all the measures that are actually being taken now, and that are rolling and going. I also want us to remind ourselves that there is actually going to be an investigation on, among other things. This is the bullying officer. We have to have some patience, some ice in the stomach, I mean, and hear what they say before we conclude there. I feel that there is a great deal of consensus. I think it's a strength for the matter that we have cross-political agreement that we want to work against bullying. That on the red-green side we have now raised three interpellations about bullying, I think just have to be an encouragement for the opposition to raise several issues about bullying, so that we can constantly have this matter debated and switch over a little as to who it is who is traveling the different issues. I guess it's not common to really encourage the opposition to debate, but I think this is a very, very important matter, where I think we have a common goal. I had actually noticed that what is first of all important in bullying is long-term work. Secondly, and thirdly, long-term work is also important, patience, and that we have faith that we succeed. I think it's important that from kindergarten we have the fight against bullying integrated into everything that's going on – from the pedagogues and kindergarten staff to the school. I think it's about having clear adults to avoid bullying. I believe we should have an ambition to get rid of bullying, that it will never occur. But then, both parents and employees, we must be clear adults. Kids need to know what's right and what's wrong. We have to get better at responding to positive behavior; it's easier as a teacher than as a parent. It is much easier to be a good educator and praise what is positive in the classroom, than it is to be a parent when you come home and are a little tired and the kid won't eat up his food. Then it's hard to say, it was nice that you ate that little pea there, at least. It's a hard job, but it's incredibly important. Then we have to be consistent. If we have said one thing, it must have a consequence. So it's incredibly important that we contribute to giving the kids a positive marine view. It sounds like emotion, but I think it's incredibly important. They need to be safe on board, and safe kids don't have to bully. In terms of digital bullying and bullying in general, kids are fools. It's just that we have to be trickier than them. I think I'll stop there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1504	I would like to thank you for a broad and good debate. I think most of the elements to combat bullying have been taken up. I would like to start by commending the initiative taken by the previous government in 2002 in connection with the Manifesto Against Bullying. The measures we have now taken in the fight against bullying are more than those started in 2002 — and this should be lacking in a way, because if more action is needed and wider efforts are needed, we just have to deal with it. I think we now have a broad range of measures, a focus nationally and locally, with a mix of work for better learning environments and efforts in relation to bullying that provides a good starting point for us to succeed better. The largest study we have on this, namely the student survey, shows no increase in bullying, but it also shows no decline. At the same time, there are a few things we don't have full clarity in. If you, for example, Mobbing is experienced weekly in Norwegian school — and it is about. one of 20 students who do — and there is a bullying situation that resolves in 14 days because adults, responsible people around them take action, intervene, talk to them like bullies, and with those who bully, and get settled in it, it is an unpleasant experience. If it lasts for years, it can affect the rest of the life of that person. So we're talking about a lot of layers in terms of the degree of severity. What we know about schools that have little bullying is that they have clear management and that they succeed in many other areas as well. It's very much that there's a connection between clear leadership, from principal to teachers, from the teachers of the classes, where there are systems and control, and where everyone has the security that they know what is acceptable, what is not acceptable, and what is the consequence of the actions they do. It is true that we have received a report from NIFU STEP on the bullying programmes and their impact, but it is not certain that the effectiveness of the bullying programmes will be adequately elucidated if only schools and schools without bullying programmes are compared. It may be that someone who has had significant bullying problems, for example: used Zero or Olweus' program and had a very good means of reducing bullying at their school. So here we have to have a nuanced attitude to what works, and what doesn't work. We have good research-based programs that we know work, but we know that what is success criterion number one is not whether you use programs or not; it's whether you work systematically over time. And that's what all schools are going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1517	Then the matter is no. 13, 14 and 15 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1523	The size now goes to voting. Case No. 1 we have already voted on; the Prime Minister's statement is attached to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1899	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1909	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1933	The vote will take place on the proposals made by the Party of Advancement and the Right at its meeting on 21 March 2011: ‘The government is asked to ensure that the overall responsibility for the Planning and Building Act is added to one department which will have an overall approach to the aims of the law, so that many different societal considerations are well weighed against each other. The majority believe this should be done by bringing together the administration of the entire Planning and Construction Procedures Act of 27 June 2008 at the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs.’ [[Law on plans and buildings]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1952	The vote will take place on the proposals made by the Party of Advancement and the Right at its meeting on 21 March 2011: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that local self-government is strengthened in land matters, that the provisions on national expectations for regional and municipal planning, state planning guidelines and state planning provisions are removed, that the possibility of promoting opposition is removed only from the discretion of the State, and that State authorities are only allowed to review exemptions where it can be demonstrated that the exemption from the construction ban will clearly go beyond the rights of all civil servants in the area.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1971	The vote will take place on the proposals made by the Party of Advancement and the Right at its meeting on 21 March 2011: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that the concept of ‘non-interventional natural areas’ is no longer given weight in dealing with land-related matters in state administrative bodies.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e1990	The vote will take place on the proposals made by the Party of Advancement and the Right at its meeting on 21 March 2011: ‘During 2011, the Government asks the Government to bring forward a case for the Storting to amend the tasks of the County where these are restricted to legal review only in order to safeguard the rights of individuals with regard to the municipal administration and to comply with adopted laws.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e2009	The vote will take place on the proposals made by the Party of Advancement and the Right at its meeting on 21 March 2011: ‘During 2011, the government is asked to promote a case for the Storting to transfer the administrative authority over areas protected by the Nature Diversity Act to the municipalities concerned. It is assumed that Norway’s national objectives and obligations regarding the conservation of diversity of species are established.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e2028	The vote will take place at the Stortinget meeting on 21 March 2011 on the following proposals: ‘The government is asked to present a strategy to facilitate business development and job creation in municipalities with a high level of protection. Such a strategy should consist in identifying which municipalities have a high level of protection or other Community objectives to develop a categorisation of municipalities according to the level of binding and protection to establish national guidelines for all establishments with a protection or land use authority, taking into account the fact that municipalities with a high level of binding needs will also have room for economic development to develop national strategies for the development of nutrition in combination with protection to assess whether a specific local compensation should be introduced to municipalities that take a very large part of the burden of protection from the large community.’ The Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People’s Party supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e2065	The vote will take place at the Stortinget meeting on 21 March 2011 on the following proposals: «The government is asked to ensure that volunteering and measurand solutions are at the centre of protection. Force must be the last resort.» The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e2087	The vote will take place at the Stortinget meeting on 21 March 2011 on the following proposals: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that restrictions on use do not go beyond what is necessary for the purpose of protection.’ The Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party are behind the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e2104	In Case No: 12–15 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-29.ana.ud2056e2116	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
