ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e43	The representatives Gorm Kjernli, Sylvi Graham, Tone Merete Sønderud, Dagfinn Højbrätt, Øyvind Waksdal, Ingrid Heggo, and Sonja Mandt, who has been licensed, have taken up their seats again. They called the alternates of the Telemark County, Odin Adelsten Bohmann and Dag Sele, have taken their seats. Three permit applications are available: by Mr Åse Michaelsen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists on welfare leave Monday 4 April from the representative of Mr Svein Gülseth on welfare leave Monday 4 April from the Working Party on health leave for the representative of Mr Tove Linnea Brandvik, from 4 April until further notice On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the West Agder County: Tor Sigbjørn AussognFor the Hordaland County: Roald Aga HaugFor More and Romesdal County: Eva Vinje Aurdal
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e118	Tor Sigbjørn Utsugnogn and Eva Vinje Aurdal are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e126	The representative, Elisabeth Aspaker, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e129	On behalf of the representatives of Svein Harberg, Henning Warloe, Lars Myraune and myself, I would like to propose a new national strategy for ICT in training.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e134	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed. At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Transport and Communications. 1, 2 and 3 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e174	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 3 hours and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 70 minutes, Progress Party 45 minutes, Right 30 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, 10 minutes are proposed to the Minister of Transport and 5 minutes to other members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the insertion of two main speakers from each group and up to five lines with replies after the insertion of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e187	This issue concerns the introduction of national legislation for the erasure and storage of traffic data under strict conditions which also meet the minimum requirements of the EU Data Storage Directive. The proposition was delivered to Stortinget on 10 December 2010. The majority, the Right Party and the Working Party reinforce the data protection requirements of the Code on the storage, storage and use of traffic data. In addition, a number of key privacy principles in this and other areas of society are significantly strengthened and improved. The majority point of departure has been to ensure a national law that balances data protection with anti-crime considerations – not just to decide on the Data Storage Directive. At the same time, legislative changes are an important contribution to the protection of privacy. In a very short time, it has become so that technology permeates our everyday lives. Privacy is under pressure in many areas of society. In order to safeguard privacy, strict rules for the collection, storage and deletion of data are introduced. Examples include a six-month retention period, a police record in the provision of data, a high level of penalties and an obligation to delete, and the strengthening of control activities by the Data Protection Supervisor with the echo operators. As a result of the agreement presented today, the legal security, privacy and security of individuals are strengthened. The new principle of the implementation of the Data Storage Directive is that providers are required to store and that storage is to be carried out for a purpose other than for the provider’s own, namely the fight against crime. Traffic data is being stored today. Traffic data is currently being used by the police to combat crime. With the new regulations now in force, we will store a few more data than today, and the storage time will be slightly longer. At the same time, the use of these data is being put under significantly stricter controls and conditions than are currently in force. The Committee has conducted a comprehensive, open and wide-ranging consultation. Discussions have been conducted with all the parties in this case – this to further discuss the process, the parties’ balances and important points of view in the case, and to try to reconcile key points. In all discussions, the parties were made aware of the overall right-wing approach to national legislation and the strengthening of privacy. Many participants in the debate on the Data Storage Directive have argued that today’s legal situation is good and unproblematic. That's wrong. More than ten years ago — long before the EU adopted its directive — Økokrim and Kripos pointed out that their access to traffic data from telecommunications and data traffic was uneven and depending on different procedures by different eco-suppliers. Postal and telecommunications regulators have long been skeptical of the current state of law, because the practices of telecommunications operators with regard to extradition vary. Data is often stored longer than required by the legislation, the deletion obligation is not respected and location data is stored in violation of current legislation. Since 2000, four public investigations have suggested that today’s legislation is inconclusive and poor. The purpose of the EU Data Storage Directive is to harmonise the legislation on the storage of defined data generated by the use of electronic communications. The aim is to provide police and judicial authorities with a tool to detect, investigate and not least prosecute serious crime, even across borders. Providers of public electronic communications service or networks, so-called eco-suppliers, currently store data for their own communication and billing purposes in Norway. The systems for storing traffic data are different, the extent of what is stored is different and the safety of this information is uneven. Traffic data is crucial in the investigation of serious crime. Telephone services are used by police and prosecution authorities, inter alia: in order to identify contact patterns, and mainly in cases involving more involved, such as drug trafficking, serious crime, trafficking in human beings and other organised crime. An example of this is ‘Operation Broken Lorry’, where a Moroccan drug network was rolled up by Kripos in 2006. A total of 35 were sentenced throughout Europe, and two of the backers were sentenced in Norway to 21 years in prison. Location data is considered to be highly privacy-invasive due to the fact that much excess information about innocent people is generated by base station searches. The majority position of the Committee addresses this by requiring higher penalties to collect these base station data, and it is higher than for other data – five years. Internet traffic is particularly relevant in cases where offences are committed in whole or in part on the network. A current example is the dissemination of child abuse images. The storage of information relating to IP addresses to a particular subscriber is essential for initiating investigations into these cases at all. We have seen several examples of serious issues that could not have been investigated because these data have been deleted. Opinions from the PST Police Security Service (PST) at the hearings of the Committee are about Norway becoming more terrorised without the Data Storage Directive and that the PST uses traffic data in all its cases. In its hearing to the Ministry of Transport, the Advocate General pointed out that: ‘[in]the implementation of the Data Storage Directive, the police and the prosecution authority lose a central and important instrument in investigating and rectifying serious crime. It will provide broad legal certainty for citizens who reasonably expect law enforcement authorities to do their tasks at least as well tomorrow as today. Instead, a system is established whereby criminals can communicate freely without any danger of the authorities being able to trace the contact in retrospect, which is something new in our fight against crime.’ [[even a short time after]] Preliminary data from the ongoing EU evaluation demonstrate that the police are most in demand of data younger than six months old, although some data are also requested until they are 12 months old. The police are currently seizing the data stored, regardless of whether they are stored as a result of a breach of the erasure obligation. This means that if we say that today's legal status should be preserved, while following up with stricter supervision and disclosure requirements so that data is not illegally stored, the police's ability to solve or prevent serious crime or terrorism will be worse than it is today. The agreement between the Right Party and the Working Party will strengthen the obligation to delete traffic data at the end of the storage period. Providers shall be responsible for the storage themselves and a number of requirements are introduced to strengthen safety by storing them. Individual safety, legal certainty and privacy are ensured by the introduction of new and more stringent rules for the processing of traffic data: there must be a concession and there are penalties linked to its breach. Authorisation is required for personnel handling this type of data. Closed storage is introduced. Provisions shall be made for encryption. The retention period shall be six months and the supply of traffic data shall be subject to judicial decision. Today, there is no requirement for the severity of the criminal offence. Therefore, with this amendment, the threshold for collecting traffic data is significantly higher. Penalties are imposed, usually four years, and five years upon withdrawal from the base station. The deletion obligation is made clear. Commodity providers shall take responsibility for the storage themselves. I refer to what I have mentioned in relation to concession. Currently, stored traffic data are widely used by the police, but without legal requirements. Now it's being introduced. From now on, there will also be a new data protection regime in this part of the process. In addition, we also need to ensure that the urgency is not used unnecessarily by one court to have a watch regime to ensure continuity and availability of justice. Data supervision shall be significantly strengthened. I would like to stress that the protection of journalists and other editors from surveillance needs to be strengthened. In addition, the obligation of professional secrecy for all employees of law firms is strengthened. The provision of data in emergency situations is currently not regulated. Here the parties agree that we should take a closer look at the design of a legal provision in this area. The new principle is also to facilitate the logging of internal calls into personal registers with sensitive data in Nav and a number of processing registers in the healthcare system. It is a paradigm shift that the principle of the obligation of logging and the right of access to public registers should now apply. I recommend the Committee's position on the decision in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e247	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e250	We've got a surveillance salliance in the form of the Right Party and the Workers' Party. When the representative says we're going to store a little bit more and a little bit longer, there's also a way to say it. Right claims that they believe six months is a proper storage time. The EU is now evaluating the Directive. If the EU were to go from six months of storage to 24 months of storage, and introduce 12 months of mandatory storage time, is there a secret agreement or understanding between the Workers' Party and the Right that Norway will also follow up the EU decision? Or will the Right still be able to stand in six months?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e255	These amendments to the Directive had not been accepted by the right without significant restrictions on the changes to the eco-ms and, in addition, significant restrictions on privacy. We are now pleased that we can put forward new legislation and put it in place, because the legislation, the rules, has been weak in terms of privacy, in addition it has not been regulated, so that neither the protection of privacy nor the instruments needed by the police in terms of combating crime have been sufficiently and properly strengthened. No, it's not a secret deal. Should the EU come up with other assessments, evaluations, in its submission – which has taken a long time – it would be quite natural for this to be treated in the same way as changes in the eco-nomic law are now being treated in the Norwegian economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e262	The outcome of the negotiations and the six-month storage period are many who have foreseen a long time, and it smells like agreed games. Now a gilding campaign is going on from the Right, which I think many Right-members are turning into pain. What I find most striking is that the right does not seem to understand the difference in today's practice, where you have a data deletion obligation, and the switch to a practice where you impose traffic data storage. The Data Protection Authority does not share the rapporteur's enthusiasm for this agreement. My questions are as follows: Don't right here understand what fundamental limit is crossed when the state demands to store people's movement patterns? Why does the case rapporteur not mention in one word all the exceptions to the four-year penalty framework for which the Right has opted, including the penal laws §§ 90 and 91a, which would be a direct threat to the source protection of journalists when they are working to expose critical conditions at the state power?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e276	The right starting point has always been that we have seen it so that today's legislation and legislation are neither good for the tools needed by the police nor for privacy. I'm probably more surprised that the representative doesn't see the same thing. Our starting point has been to enter into the negotiations, simply because today's legislation needs to be strengthened. We have also invited the representative's own party to participate in a significant strengthening of privacy and, in addition, to secure the means for the police. Judiciary control is new. The storage obligation, where we have agreed to an agreement in six months, is one month longer than several of the actors today practice, and there are also actors that do not store at all. I see that the agreement we have now presented is a significant strengthening in a number of areas, including for journalists and others working in editorial work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e281	The agreement between the Right and the Workers' Party provides for costly requirements for encryption solutions and closed storage in Norway. However, telecommunications companies are free to choose cheaper and much less secure storage solutions in other EEA countries. My question is: does the representative see that this can undermine the goal of safe storage – and then I think beyond what is in the agreement on a storage site warning to consumers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e288	There's always reason to keep track of where data is stored. It is also in the agreement and the framework of data security that underlies the agreement, namely that you and I, as subscribers, should also know where our data is stored. They shall be subject to strict requirements and shall also be followed up by the Data Protection Authority — how they are stored, who should have access, and a number of elements contained in the agreement. What is more surprising is that the Central Party, which has for a long time flagged that they would produce national legislation in this area – to which we have not seen much – is most concerned about costs, and less concerned about what is really about instruments for police and judicial authorities, and also a significant strengthening of privacy. Privacy will cost, but privacy must also be secure in the form of safe and secure data storage, and be followed in such a way both nationally and internationally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e295	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e299	First of all, I would like to thank the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence for the flexibility it has shown in this matter. Not only were we asked to speed up the release by one week, but also to merge two debates – which I, as the case-rapporteur, initially had no desire to do. I saw it as unnatural to debate the implementation of a directive if it was not a majority of the directive, so my wish was that we had taken the debate on consent at a later stage. I also think I have to say something about the process in the matter. On 28 March we were informed – on the news – that the Workers' Party and the Right had reached an agreement, while the case rapporteur had not been informed about this. It thus made her work impossible before she got a draft agreement. On 29 March I received a draft agreement from the Transport and Communications Committee when they took their case temporarily, and the Foreign and Defence Committee received its opinion. We will deal with it on March 30, at 2.30 p.m. 13.00, on which the Committee on Transport and Communications gave its opinion at 1 p.m. 2:00 p.m. We in the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee had our first review of the case for consent at noon. 13:00 Wednesday 30 March, and then to give our call Thursday 31 March at Nine o'clock. This shows that the matter to those degrees has been under time pressure, and that therefore, it is also right to ask questions about Storting's treatment in the case. Then I've been told what I mean about the process, and I'm going over to Prop. 50 S for 2010-2011 on consent to participation in a decision of the EEA Committee on inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive 2006/24/EC on the storage of data generated by the use of public electronic communications service or public electronic communications networks, also referred to as the Data Storage Directive. Everything started with the terrorist attack in Madrid in March 2004. The EU adopted a declaration on combating terrorism following it. The declaration saw the need for instruments to combat terrorism, and Sweden, the United Kingdom, France and Ireland presented a proposal for a Council decision on data storage. The Council proposal was rejected by the European Parliament in 2005, so it was rejected. The Commission then presented a proposal for a Directive, which was adopted by the Council and Parliament in March 2006. The Directive leaves to the national authorities to address several important issues, including: questions of access to and disclosure of data stored. The storage period may be between 6 and 24 months and national authorities may designate some to supervise the storage and security of data. The deadline for the implementation of the Data Storage Directive was September 2007 but with the possibility of deferral until March 2009. Article 14 of the Directive required the EU Commission to present an evaluation of the implementation of the Directive and its impact on economic activities by 15 September 2010, and not least on consumers. This evaluation is delayed and the date of submission of the evaluation is constantly being shifted. Since the implementation of the Data Storage Directive requires changes in the law, the Storting must give its consent under the second paragraph of Section 26 of the Constitution to make this Directive binding. So here we are today to make the directive binding, and there are many of us who do not want it at all. I do not go into the legislative changes and substance of the matter, such as the relationship with human rights, the police's need for data to combat crime, privacy and competition in electronic communications. It will be discussed by representatives of the Transport and Communications Committee, but I look at what has happened in Europe, what can be the consequences of an evaluation in the EU, and ask: Why do we have so much time? Several EU Member States have still not implemented the Data Storage Directive in their legislation — some because of constitutional objections to its implementation, others because of its economic nature and others because of the lack of storage capacity. Sweden, which helped to promote the proposal in 2004, has decided a few weeks ago to wait a year for implementation. Ireland, which was also one of the proposers, has filed an action against the Directive because they believe that the Directive is wrong in relation to the EC Treaty. If so, it is not a directive that is binding on the EEA countries either. In addition, we know that the EU is currently carrying out an evaluation of the Directive, albeit overtime. The rapporteur had planned a trip to Brussels to talk to the chairperson of the Evaluation Committee to hear on which points there could be significant changes in the evaluation. We were offered to meet her advisers, but unfortunately we never got it because of the speed of delivery. So we're waiting in suspense for what's coming. It's hardly any surprise that the committee is divided into the position in the case, and I assume that the majority, the Labour Party and the Right, will explain the position, and then I will certainly, using the rest of the privacy alliance, account for the minority proposal. The minority does not agree to participate in a decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion of the Data Storage Directive. The main reason is of course that we believe this violates privacy. Personally, I also believe that it violates the Constitution § 102 and the European Convention on Human Rights Article 8. There is reason to believe that the evaluation concludes immediately and that substantial changes will be made to the Directive in the light of this. Therefore, the minority is willing to use the right of reservation in this case, which is the only way to avoid the Directive. It has been said very impeccably from the supporters of the directive on the consequences of using the right of reservation in this case – from almost total failure to EEA cooperation to exclusion from important forums in Europe. But this is nothing but speculation. We have never used the right of reservation before, and therefore we do not know the consequences. In any case, we can decorate ourselves with being second best in all of Europe to implement directives. It's just Malta that's better than us. That's what it says. In many other international forums, countries continue to veto, which is also the right of reservation, without significant impact on the relationship between countries. In the case of such a controversial case as the Data Storage Directive is in Norway, both the Labour Party and not least the Right should have taken the trouble to listen to people. People don't want any further surveillance, and they don't want to jump either because the EU says we should. Very few of us had liked that an agent had followed us around and noted where we were, who we talked to, and when we talked to them. But as soon as this becomes technological and invisible, it's not dangerous. Well, the countries that actually had physical surveillance are the countries that today do not want the Data Storage Directive. It should give us a picture of what we are going to adopt today, and it should also give not least Right something to think about. I would like to read the following: ‘Personal protection must be ensured in all areas of society, management, employment, business and criminal justice. When assessing the need for any new investigation methods, privacy considerations must weigh heavily. With technological innovations, both the transparency of personal circumstances and the ability to monitor persons has been greatly expanded, both publicly and privately. The extended scope of old and new forms of registration may represent a threat to privacy and freedom of expression.» So this quote is from the Right Principle Program, and I guess I don't have to say anything anymore. Unfortunately, we do not get a majority to say no to the Data Storage Directive. That is why, in the light of the process of processing, the economic consequences and since we know that an evaluation by the European Commission is soon to be carried out, the minority wants to promote a postponement proposal that we have submitted in time, which is likely to be distributed a little later, and which we want to vote for when our proposal for no consent falls. There are several reasons for postponement. One is, of course, the evaluation, as I have mentioned. The second is the current case brought by Ireland against the Directive, because Ireland is in favour of the case, yes, it is hardly necessary for Norway to deal with it at all. But at the moment we adopt consent, it is binding. I see that the time runs out, and I will therefore address the proposals made by the minority in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e346	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It is opened for access to cord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e351	In the notes on this implementation proposition, the Progress Party, together with the other minority parties, says: ‘Introducing the Data Storage Directive is to lay down the democratic legal principle that everyone is innocent until the opposite is proven. [[indemnification margin]] These members consider this to mean something entirely new in Norwegian case law’. [[...]] A little over two years ago, a unanimous decision was taken to implement the third Whitewashing Directive into Norwegian law and then to amend the law. It reinforced a regulatory framework whereby all movements in our bank accounts are continuously monitored. If something happens that suspects, for example: whitewashing, automatic warning goes to Økokrim. There is no court that assesses whether Ecocrim should be given access to it. On that basis, I would like to ask the representative Woldseth whether this violent use of words is actually a little wrong? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e363	The President will remind you that speaking time must be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e366	No, I don't think the violent use of words is wrong. I think we should be able to allow that when we rock something that is incredibly fundamental in Norway and in the rest of the world, for that matter, we are rocking privacy and the right to have a private life. So I don't think the jam is too hard on me.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e371	‘It’s a paradox that Frp, who traditionally wants to provide the police with all the necessary tools to combat crime’ – says Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, who is on the Justice Committee of the Progress Party. The representative himself has an affordable commitment to sexual abuse against children and to the spread of child pornography. Unfortunately, we have seen too many cases of this type being closed down, precisely because IP addresses have been deleted when the police finally find the perpetrators – or in the pursuit of the perpetrators. How can the representative Woldseth defend that children do not get better legal protection and are thus saved from potential abuse because IP addresses are not stored more than just a few weeks today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e378	It's probably a bit like a hit under the belt site to mention child abuse, when we have opportunities today – if you have a suspicion – to give the police access to data. In addition, one has actually managed to roll up heavy pedophilia in Norway without having had a data storage directive. So I guess I think the representative Gitmark's claims fall on his own unfairness. We've actually managed to get hold of pedophiles without having to criminalize an entire nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e383	It is tempting to pursue the unknowingness of the representative Woldseth about what the police themselves have asked for from the use of instruments related to data storage, and in particular about the involvement of Skovholt Gitmark – Woldseth’s commitment to child abuse. I'll leave it. I think it is alarming that the main figure for the Progress Party in its ten minutes does not even reflect on our foreign policy relationship with Europe – around the consequences of using the veto right. I also think it is paradoxical that the representative Woldseth is using Ireland as an example of why we want to postpone the matter, when we know that Ireland actually wants longer storage time than the EU data storage directive adds. I would like to ask Woldseth: does she at all see any foreign policy implications in our relationship with the EU by not implementing?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e390	That's how we're probably going to discuss storage time a lot in the course of the day. But speaking time has been set and must be respected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e399	Yes, and I have so far discussed it in my post. As the representative is aware, we have received a report from Professor Sejersted on the possible consequences of the right of reservation and our relationship with the rest of Europe. As I also said, I don't think it will be that violent reactions. In the EEA Agreement, we actually had this as an opportunity. If Norway thinks that this is going too far, that this affects our nation too much, and that this violates the Basic Law, yes, then we have to use the right of reservation. If we're not going to be able to use it now, when are we going to be able to use the right of reservation? Or is it just for decoration, so Gro Harlem Brundtland would once get through the EEA Agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e404	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e408	Technological development creates opportunities. In a short time, mobile phones, iPads and laptops have become necessary tools for all of us in everyday life. Technology is central to the value creation of business and it is essential for the functioning of government. On average, each of us spends almost an hour and a half a day on the Internet, according to media outlets. Technological development is also a challenge. The technology is basic international. It may not be regulated solely by national law. That's where a lot of the disagreement lies. Technology is often central when criminal acts are planned and committed, and thus when crime is to be combated. Technology also puts privacy under pressure. A large number of personal data can be recorded, stored and systematised and others’ access to my personal data simplified. We leave a lot of electronic tracks behind, and commercial actors use our personal data in a commercial context. As politicians, we have a great responsibility to meet these challenges. We are responsible for providing police and prosecution authorities with tools to ensure that they can carry out the social mission that Stortinget has given them – to expose and combat crime. We are responsible for the protection of privacy and for ensuring that sensitive information is not compromised. Combining these two considerations is a demanding balance. I, and the Workers' Party, believe that the bill and the agreement that has now been concluded between the Workers' Party and the Right on changes in the Ecom Act, control this balance. On the one hand, we ensure police access to an important tool. There is no doubt that traffic data has been important in clearing up killings, trafficking in human beings and organised crime, such as the Novas. On the other hand, we are now introducing strong data protection in relation to today's situation, where there are now few or no rules around, among other things. access to the stored data. It has been important for us to listen closely to the recordings that came both through the consultation and consultation in the committee, and I would like to thank the Right for a good and constructive cooperation, which today results in a national law that strengthens both the fight against crime and privacy. Ekoom providers have long stored communication data for commercial purposes. However, the experience with very different practices and changes in the storage needs of providers means that this is no longer sufficient. We rely on communication data to be stored for community reasons. For this reason, the Workers' Party and the Right will impose a storage obligation on the echo operators for data that says something about the means of communication that have been in contact, where the communication has taken place, when and how. We agree that the data should be stored for six months. The content of the communication shall not be stored. In the file, the opposition claims that this is monitoring. It's not. Monitoring involves an active and continuous follow-up to what some are doing. Our proposal has nothing to do with monitoring. Initially, the police do not have access to any data, and they will only have access to selected data under certain conditions. I've been to Interpol, Kripos and children's houses all around the country, all of which fight sexual abuse against children. Information technology makes it easy for adults to make contact with children. Therefore, the Stortinget agreed that it was necessary to adopt a ‘grooming’ paragraph prohibiting adults from attracting children to contact. Information technology also causes child abuse images to spread at a speed and to an extent that we have never experienced before. But in several cases, Kripos has had to stop the investigation because data has been deleted. In contrast to what the representative, Woldseth, said, has led to a worsening of the police's ability to solve this type of serious crime. The last example is Europol’s roll-up of the world’s largest pedophile network of more than 70,000 users. 34 Norwegian IP addresses are connected to the network, but cannot be tracked because data has been deleted. Police officer in Kripos, John Ståle Stamnes, told the evening post that storage would last for six months to track down people in this case. And let me be clear: in matters like this, there is no – none – information that can replace traffic data when the police are going to move on in the investigation. Therefore, I think it is extremely serious that the minority only adds up to a continuation of today's practice of storing IP addresses for three weeks. Not even the Data Protection Authority's own proposal for a five-month storage period of IP addresses is endorsed by the minority. The consequence of this will be that Norway will still not be able to participate in the detection of serious criminal offences such as this, or we will have to rely on assistance from other countries that store traffic data any longer. The Working Party and the Right ensure a significant intensification of privacy in relation to today. We impose a requirement that data should be provided only after judicial review, and we introduce a general rule that this can only be done in cases involving serious crime, which has a penalty framework of four years or more. In addition, provision of traffic data shall be required for the investigation. This is not the situation today. Today, there are few or no conditions attached to the delivery of data to the police by the echo operators, and this tightening will lead to a narrowing of police access to data. The agreement also contributes to a tightening of the rules for securing the stored data, so as not to allow unauthorised access. We make it clear that there is an obligation to delete data, that there is a requirement for authorisation and closed storage by the echo operators, and that the Data Protection Authority is empowered to impose encryption of data that will fall under the storage obligation. We also assume that the Data Protection Authority significantly strengthens the control activities against the ecosystem providers and the justice sector. Following the presentation of the agreement last Monday, there has been a debate on the costs of increased security. It surprises me a lot, because I feel that everyone in this room, regardless of whether we are in favour of the implementation of the Data Storage Directive or not, believes that we need to impose stricter safety restrictions on the storage of traffic data than today and the availability of such data. The legislative proposal mentions the costs of the change in the ecosystem law also takes into account different solutions with different levels of safety. It has also been explained that a model is to be drawn up for the calculation and distribution of costs between the eco-suppliers and the judicial authorities. Therefore, I doubt the claims made that this could be very costly. Finally, this will also be part of the annual budgetary negotiations to be decided by the Storting. One issue specifically addressed by the press organisations in the hearing was the need of the press for enhanced source protection. I am therefore pleased that this has become an important point in the agreement between the Labour Party and the Right, but I also support the rapporteur's suggestion that this bill should include editorial staff and not just journalists. The new legislation relates to an increasingly evolving technological area. Therefore, we agree that the change should be evaluated after four years. Among other things, it is central to looking at the effects of a storage period of six months. The minority will refuse police access to traffic data to combat serious crime. But traffic data storage raises more issues than police access. Traffic data is also stored today, but for commercial purposes. And commercial actors can therefore use much more sensitive data for example. marketing aimed at each of us. As politicians, we cannot let the commercial needs go ahead of the need we as societies have to fight serious crime. If we do that, we'll fail both the police and privacy. The majority today ensure that we withdraw control of an important part of the fight against crime from market forces. In this way, we strengthen legal certainty for all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e461	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e464	We politicians must be the border guards of technology. It's a job the Labour Party doesn't take. The Labour Party bends the neck of the EU political whip. That's the observation. After pressure from many lots, including: In 2009, we received a report from the Norwegian Data Protection Commission — and Stortinget is still waiting for a big-time report on the state of privacy in Norway. The question is as follows: what makes us have to hurry like this, and introduce others' interference in and transfer of Norwegian privacy, before we have had a broad national discussion in our own national assembly on the state of privacy in Norway? Isn't this the wrong order? Should not Norway itself clear and set limits on privacy before the EU can do so?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e471	The debate on the Data Storage Directive has raised an important debate on privacy, and I am pleased about that. Therefore, it was also important for us in the agreement to stress that the government should provide a separate privacy notice, including: the question of logging, registration, transparency, etc. be discussed. Then I must say that there is one party that has really disappointed me in the matter of data storage, so it is the Progress Party that claims that this will lead to a police state. I feel that the Progress Party is no longer taking responsibility for the fight against crime. The Progress Party does not take into account the fact that the victims of crime are in fact entitled to privacy. That is why I must say that the attitude of the Progress Party in this matter has been a major disappointment, and that the Progress Party no longer has credibility as a party engaged in the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e478	We see that Sweden chooses to wait one year. We see that the Constitutional Courts of Germany, Romania and the Czech Republic believe that the directive is unconstitutional in relation to data protection issues. The EU is in the process of revising the Directive. It is announced that the first evaluation will be very soon. We feel that there has been a time pressure in the discussion, both in the committee and now in the aftermath. My question to the representative Bjørnflaten is: what is the urgency of this and makes it impossible for us to take the data protection assessments first and discuss this through the processing of a data protection notification, when we see that implementation should not take effect until one year?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e483	With regard to the case in Sweden, a broad majority in Parliament actually wanted to implement the directive, including the representative of Nordås’ own party colleagues. It was also a special minority right that made decisions impossible. With regard to the Czech Republic and Germany, I would like to make it clear that it was the implementation of the directive that was contrary to the Constitution. What I think is interesting to see is that what has been stressed both in the Czech Republic and in Germany is something that has been very important for us to get in place, namely judicial review. So we've done that right over here. They have pointed out that there were not enough serious crimes that would be covered by the introduction of the Data Storage Directive in the Czech Republic and Germany. This has been ensured by the fact that we are now making demands on the criminal framework and that it must be serious crime. I feel that through the proposals that are now being submitted to eco-legislation, we are delivering in relation to the points that have been concerned about both in the Czech Republic and in Germany.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e490	I am tempted to add that the Children's Ombudsman in Norway is, of course, against the Data Storage Directive. It may not be so important what the Children's Ombudsman says about this, which is obviously a big blow to children's rights. I did not receive a reply from the case rapporteur, so I intend to try the Workers' Party. These are the numerous exceptions to the four-year penalty framework requirement for the provision of traffic data. This will make it possible to identify the source networks of journalists if they are so bold as to reveal secret and critical issues in central government. Now, I'm sure the representative Bjørnflaten is tempted to refer to the agreement that has been made regarding space listening of editorials. It's irrelevant here. I have a very specific question relating to the criminal law §§ 90 and 91: How can the Workers' Party defend free access to journalists' traffic data if they reveal secret and critical conditions in the state, which must be said to be a very important part of the activities of journalists?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e497	First of all, I would like to make it clear that, in addition to the fact that we are now imposing strict criminal penalties in terms of the types of issues in which traffic data can be provided, we are also imposing some other restrictions. We're saying that it's necessary, and we're saying that it should be proportionate. In every way, we enhance significant data protection related to the provision of traffic data in relation to the current situation. It has also been important for both the Workers' Party and the Right to follow up the strong signals we received from the press organisations. That is why I am very happy that we have got this point in place in the agreement. Then I want to remind the representative Valen of one thing. Today, none of these restrictions exist. Today, we don't have judicial control. Today there is no requirement for a criminal framework. Traffic data can be provided to police and prosecution authorities today without any specific restrictions being imposed. So there is no doubt that the proposal that is being adopted today leads to a strong strengthening of privacy, including in the working situation of journalists.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e504	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e507	The Data Storage Directive requires you to store an extensive amount of information about our mobile and network usage – who you call when you call, where you call, how long you talk, who you send mail to, who you receive when you are on the Internet, and how long you are there. SV is opposed to the introduction of the Data Storage Directive for three reasons. First of all, it's our strong over-interpretation that every single human being is innocent until the opposite is proven. We shouldn't be based on a think-tank in our state of law where we're ordering to gather tracks about each of the North's people, since we can get guilty. Then we pray to change the status of each human being, from innocent to potentially guilty. Secondly, the obligation to store large amounts of data increases the risk of harm to the environment and to abuse. Saving poses a risk to privacy. I don't really like the word ‘personal protection’ – it sounds like something we’re going to stop and sit in a museum. Integrity is a better word in my view. Who you are calling, to whom you are sending e-mails, is the information that may mislead you – for example: an e-mail from an additional member of the SV's group to the Labour Inspectorate on the relationship of the group, four phones to the crisis centre last weekend from a female representative, a secret tip to a journalist, repeated emails to an address ending with swingersnorge.com. On the contrary, such information may violate the integrity of the parties involved. Third, as long as you're innocent, there's no problem, some say. I mean it's the opposite. I mean, the problem is that we're innocent. Suspects can ensure the storage of information about already, and maybe this should be better. The serious thing now is how the directive can affect anyone who is not suspected of crime. In a 2008 study by the German Forsa Institute, more than half of them replied that they would not use telecommunications equipment when talking to psychologists, marriage counselors, or drug abuse as a result of the Data Storage Directive. 11 pst. replied that they had already refused to use telephone, mobile phone or e-mail in certain cases. We're not interested in innocent people holding back or letting's search out knowledge of fear of being shrugged over shoulders. Malte Spitz, parliamentarian for the Greens in Germany, went to court to get teledata on himself from Deutsche Telekom, and got it. Then he gave it to the newspaper Die Zeit, who along with posts from his blog and Twitter could construct the movement pattern of his day by day for half a year. On 1 September 2009, they have his movement pattern for 20 hours, on 4 September in 16 hours. Most days they have such an overview of him. Go online and check for yourself - interesting reading. The information that comes out can violate our integrity, but the knowledge that it is stored can in itself reduce our freedom. Although SV is strongly against the directive, I would say that we are even more concerned about the gradual change in attitudes, opportunities and policies that are taking place. We already have a comprehensive storage of data, and we have a comprehensive camera surveillance. Internationally, or here in the country, it is discussed to register online searches, to insert a piece into every car that can tell you where they are. We want better and more comprehensive health records that can connect, better registers with more information about children in kindergarten and school. We've been trying on space listening as well. I know several of these suggestions well. They're all well meant and well grounded in their field. But do we understand and think about the consequences of the sum? The French philosopher Jacques Attali, who was also a longtime adviser to President François Mitterrand, wrote the book «Short history of the future» on the theme. He describes a thoughtful future society in which the state monitors our health, diet, transport and schoolwork for the children – not because the politicians have been totalitarian, not for commercial reasons, but for functional reasons. The cost and public health are better with systematic recording of what we are doing. The school results are better when we know what the students are like and how they work. And everyone understands, of course, that the fight against crime is becoming more effective with the recording and storage of ever more data. Everybody's looking at it. We get more knowledge, society gets better and safer. The only thing we're losing is a little slack in social machinery. But I'm too slack. As long as it's sloppy, there's hope, because sloppy is a sign of freedom: the potato gold bag you shouldn't eat, the bypass you shouldn't take, the submission you cheated on – or more directly linked to the Data Storage Directive – the email you shouldn't have sent, the place you shouldn't have been one night. The freedom not to do it – or maybe even to do it sometimes – is invaluable to the individual. But it is also of invaluable value to society that we humans have a great freedom, an integrity, in which we can stand out. There must be not only room for the perfect life. There must also be room for smear in society. Of course, the Data Storage Directive does not lead to such a society, let me be clear about it. But the sum of a series of decisions and possibilities over time can lead us in such a direction. We record, monitor, store and use much more information now than for a decade or two. Furthermore, the road is important. What do we want to use this information for in 10 years? What data can we connect to to get more and better information? What will be the next time we register and save? In light of this, is it not wise to think again? It is said that one should let doubt come to the fore, and in this case my SV it would be reasonable: The EU's evaluation of the directive has not yet come. She will provide us with information on where EU legislation goes. Our neighbouring country Sweden has postponed the implementation. In several countries, the Directive is subject to legal proceedings after it has been known to be unconstitutional. Even if there's going to be a big country meeting in the future: when we have the opportunity to postpone it, and that's good reason, we should do it. I mean it has come a good thing out of the debate, which we currently end today. It's that I don't think it's the end. I think that's the beginning -- the beginning of a much more vibrant social debate about the balance between our freedom and integrity on the one hand and all the well-founded functional desire we have as a society on the other. We – the Biggest, the Government, the political system – must lead in a fundamental debate on this in the future. For a long time, we have seen individual social interests in the driver’s seat and in a fast-track sequence, as well as well-meaning and functional proposals for registration and monitoring in different fields. The principal questions we've been dealing with have been sidetracked. This is politics turned upside down. It must be the opposite – that politicians discuss and adopt the framework for social development, and then we ask for follow-up and discussion based on how the different aspects of society should be addressed. Whoever is willing to sacrifice his freedom for a temporary security, devours cork freedom or security, has said the American philosopher and scientist Benjamin Franklin. I want to add: in a freer society, we will feel safer than in a society where we have sacrificed much of our freedom. Let us believe that the wide-ranging debate on the Data Storage Directive means a clean-up of freedom and personal integrity as key issues in the societal debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e576	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e579	The agreement between the Workers’ Party and the Right provides a good balance between privacy – and is also a good tool – and the fight against crime. I sometimes get a feeling that the opposition in this case, including SV, seems that the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right is really quite good – perhaps a little too good. What I also think a little bit about and I'm a little bit curious about, is really what is SV's option in this. I think the representative Solhjell had an interesting and exciting post, but what is SV's alternative? Is it nothing?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e586	I think one might have to have a seat in a lot of meetings with those who are a hundred percent some with themselves, so that my post and what I've said, would bring out the feeling that I really wanted to agree with the Labour Party and the Right because it's great. Now leave it alone. Today, I will vote against the implementation of the directive because I disagree with it and believe that it will lead us in a completely wrong direction. But in addition to that, I have with others, both in public and in other contexts, an invitation to what we have called a national data storage settlement, which says no to the extensive data storage of the highly privacy-intensive things, but which takes into account many of the positive elements that of course exist here, for example. judicial control. It is positive that one gets more control, but the extensive storage it is put up for here, I strongly disagree with, which I argued for in my post.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e593	It would have been considerably more difficult for the representative Bård Vegar Solhjell to keep the post he had now, if the nation had known what was SV's national alternative. Then I think part of the principles that he now went up had been harder to defend. It is also difficult to defend on the basis of what the Swedish Government has actually done in terms of integrity and privacy. For example, the Swedish Government has provided a law on health records, where one has personally identifiable health information covering soon the entire population of the country. This is the birth register, it's the drug register, it's the heart register, it's the psychiatry records, it's the death register – that is, the entire population of the country, where each of us has not been given a right to reserve our data for being registered in this type of register. How does the representative feel that this is consistent with his statements on integrity?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e598	As I mentioned in my post, we have not only been in the last year, but I want to say over decades slowly, but surely – with small steps – we are moving in a direction that is problematic in relation to personal integrity. I've even got our backs on it. As the representative probably thinks, I put forward a proposal linked to the school, which was subsequently withdrawn. But when you've made mistakes in the past, there's two ways to consider it. One way to think about it is, well, we've made so many mistakes in the past that we can just keep making mistakes, because then we're already in that madness. My assessment would be, when we see the sum and amount of monitoring and registration as it has been over time, that I would invite Right to perhaps think: shouldn't you consider holding a fundamental debate on turning around, postponing the treatment of this directive, and, on the contrary, taking control of that part of social development? That would be a wise approach, because on different previous occasions, a decision has been taken that one can see the problems today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e603	Much of the traffic data generated by the representative Solhjell at the beginning of his post is also stored today, but for commercial reasons. The fact that SV is opposed to the implementation of the Data Storage Directive is well-known, old news, but as both the representative de Ruiter and the representative Höie were in the process, there is still some uncertainty about what is the alternative. In the setting, SV and the other opponent batches say that they want to be streamlined in current traffic data storage and access practices. I am pleased that SV agrees that today's practice is not good enough. But there is no suggestion as to what these contractions or the like would be. So my question to the representative Solhjell is: if SV wants to tighten up today's practice, how would you do that? Could it be that the reason why we cannot agree on any national legislation is that there is such a big gap between the resistance parties that we cannot agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e610	It will probably come up later in the debate, too, but from the five parties who have warned that they are against the Data Storage Directive, an initiative known in the public sphere was taken, the documents have been written about in the media and everything possible, where we have at a number of points opened up for a discussion about these things, among other things. a more systematic erasure and judicial control – positive things that we need to get in, but the extensive, mandatory storage of a range of privacy information can be avoided if we want to. There is an initiative for a broader set of things to do in a completely different way. What's the problem -- and what's missing -- isn't a deal between the five, but a deal with someone who could form a multiple, so there were multiples for something else. So the problem is that the majority in this room does not want anything other than the Data Storage Directive, which we are going to vote on today – not that there is no alternative or a deal about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e615	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e618	Today, the Stortinget will take a decision on a matter which has the greatest impact on daily life for all residents of Norway. The Data Storage Directive obliges all companies to store whom you call, where you call, when you call, how long you talk, who you send SMS to, where the recipient is, when you are on the Internet, how long, and who you send an email to – without any suspicion of criminal activity. The Data Storage Directive means that all residents of Norway are monitored in practice. Therefore, the Centre Party opposes the entry of the Data Storage Directive into Norwegian law. Had this been about registering who you got letters from, who you sent to, how often you get letters, etc., I think everyone had reacted very strongly. It is argued that the police need this to fight crime. This is a package solution and much more than what has been argued primarily for in the media and by a number of other actors: longer deferred deletion obligations on IP addresses – something that the privacy alliance and the centre party were willing to discuss, but the majority were not willing to do so. Instead, the whole package is taken before it is known what the EU will propose in its revision of the directive. The evaluation of the directive, which is the starting point of the revision, is scheduled to come in mid-April, i.e. in a week. Sweden awaits a year, despite threats of fine. The Administrative Court of Germany, Romania and the Czech Republic consider that the Directive is contrary to the Constitution. The EU Data Storage Directive has been rejected by the Czech Constitutional Court as ‘inadequate against privacy’. Why are there just these countries that are setting foot down for data storage? I would think it would be reasonable, with their close history, to assume that they are very critical of any attempt to monitor all or part of the population. The introduction of the Data Storage Directive is to disregard the democratic rule of law that everyone is innocent until the opposite is proven. Something new is introduced in Norwegian case law. You cross a fundamental boundary of the legal state itself. Several believe that the implementation of the Directive violates fundamental human rights, and legal proceedings have been brought. It is claimed that the Data Storage Directive will be a useful tool for the police. However, the consideration of whether or not the investigative benefits obtained are worth the privacy and legal costs of the Directive is a political issue, not a police issue. At the same time, monitoring can be bypassed by using proxy servers, online e-mail, VPN connection, which the Stortinget has, fake e-mail addresses, unsecured wireless networks, Skype and cash cards from abroad. The directive has been sued to reduce the retention period from 12 to 6 months and thus facilitates the agreement between the Right and the Workers' Party. But what's really in place hasn't been so easy to get insight into. It is unclear what is contained in some proposals, it is unclear what it is going to cost, and who is going to pay. But it didn't give the minority the opportunity to gain insight because they chose the treatment they did. What's going on like that? The Directive shall not enter into force for another year and other countries shall place a foot on the ground. The centre party does not believe that the EU is under stress to get Norway to clarify this. It seems more like there are domestic conditions that make you want to calm down your own internal opposition. In our view, the Stortinge will decide on a case in which there is no explanation of the retention period or content of the Directive after the EU has carried out its audit. The central party also believes that the Directive goes far too far in restricting the right of people to privacy. The majority of the population could have opted for much less privacy intervention. It is worrying that the Workers' Party and the Right now, following the views of the Centre Party and the Data Protection Alliance, opens up a monitoring regime of all Norwegian citizens' legitimate activities online and by telephone. The right could have chosen to be a lighthouse in Europe for privacy interests by saying no. Instead, you do the opposite. It is very regrettable that there is no overall increase in privacy and is contrary to the EU Data Storage Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e648	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e651	Traffic data is currently stored for billing purposes. But Telenor says in her letter of consultation that they have a police response centre that helps the police track people in distress every day and assists the police in their efforts to solve serious crime. In other words, where the limit goes for what is serious crime and when traffic data is to be provided is a matter between Telenor and the police. When we introduce the Data Storage Directive, we at the same time introduce criminal and judicial requirements for the provision of traffic data. Does the Center Party believe that this is a deterioration or an improvement in privacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e657	The centre party has expressed itself clearly in relation to the fact that judicial review is an improvement in privacy. Like a number of other things that we're going to discuss in the future, there'll be a need to tighten up. But it seems strange to the Central Party that first a serious breach of privacy is to be made by accepting the Directive, and then again to see if one can find ways to solve the challenges that have just been decided upon. In addition, we do not know what the directive will contain in a short time, when the EU has carried out its revision of the directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e662	The right was involved in negotiations both with the so-called data protection alliance and with the Workers' Party with a view to obtaining legislation to regulate the storage and deletion of data. The representative from the Center Party still says in his post: "Why do we have so much time?" On 8 June 2010, Minister for Transport Meltveit Kleppa held a wide-ranging conference in which the Data Storage Directive and the question of storage were discussed. At that conference, Deputy Chief Kripos Ketil Haukaas said that ‘it is uninteresting to the police about the legal access to data storage coming from the EU or as a result of a national legislative process’. So says Meltveit Kleppa: ‘I don’t have the answer today’ – but this is very interesting; and ‘some of what we’re going to spend time on in the future’ – namely, creating a national code. Why hasn't the Center Party and the Data Protection Alliance lifted a finger to get a national code in place? There's nothing to say, they're not making any suggestions, they're just against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e669	As the representative from the Right is well known, both the Centre Party and the Data Protection Alliance were interested in entering into a privacy settlement. But neither the Workers' Party nor the Right was interested in entering into any kind of settlement without the data storage directive being included, and it was totally inappropriate for the Centre Party and the Data Protection Alliance to do so. If we had shown an interest in national legislation, to which we took the initiative, to which several of us have referred, we would have been willing to discuss both deferred deletion obligations on IP addresses and judicial control and a number of other proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e674	When we hear the comments from the minority on this matter, it sounds as if the proposal for the implementation of the data storage directive will suddenly lead us to a completely different society. Words are used as ‘monitoring society’ and ‘police State’. The storage time for traffic data is now proposed to be set at six months, and with the exception of IP addresses, which are currently stored for up to three weeks, much of the data covered by the storage obligation is already stored for three to five months. The reality is that the storage obligation does not involve such major changes in relation to current practices. But the fundamental difference is that traffic data should be stored for social reasons, i.e. for the fight against crime, and not for commercial reasons. Is it, then, that the Central Party defines storage for the purpose of combating crime as a threat to privacy that will give us a monitoring society and a police state, while storage for commercial reasons is not?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e679	I note that, like the data protection alliance and the parties, the Data Protection Authority has been very critical of what is proposed, both in the directive and in what was clearly expressed in the debate in the Committee on Transport and Communications and also in the public debate. I also record that the Data Protection Authority has been very clear after the conciliation took place, that there was no argument that the fight against crime was a matter of privacy. We accept that data is stored about us in the big community. But it is often a voluntary matter for us if we want it to be stored services about us. If you, when paying a bill, want to change the phone company because your log is stored, you have the opportunity to change the echo provider. You cannot do that after the data storage directive has been introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e684	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e687	Great Brother, or “Big Brother”, is the alleged dictator in George Orwell’s novel “1984”. The book is about the fictitious totalitarian state of Oceania, which has developed the perfect mechanism for the control and repression of its citizens. It is written in the period between the experiences of World War II and the fear of the cold war. In the society described by Orwell, everyone is supervised by the authorities. ‘Storebrother’ is always present. “Big Brother” even enters the most intimate spheres of life. The population is constantly reminded of this by the slogan ‘Brother sees you’. A section from the book reads like this: ‘Of course, it was impossible to know whether one was being observed for a particular moment. One could just guess how often and according to which system the Thought Police tapped an individual line. It was even possible that it guarded everyone and everyone all the time. But at least it could tap your line anytime it wanted it. One had to live – one lived thanks to a habit that became an instinct – assuming that every sound a team was heard and every movement was examined except in the dark.” This was written in 1949. The Data Storage Directive – and let us stick to the facts – obliges all telecommunications companies to store who you call, where you call, when you call, how long you talk, who you text, where the receiver is, when you are on the Internet – how long – and who you send e-mail to, all for good reasons, in the service of good purpose, useful for the fight against crime. The Data Storage Directive means that in practice all residents of Norway are followed in all their movements in these media. You could call it monitoring or not, but this is a fact. That is why the Christian People's Party is against turning the Data Storage Directive into Norwegian law. The products resulting from this Directive are not proportionate. That is why the directive has recently been declared unconstitutional in the Czech Republic. The Romanian implementation was declared unconstitutional in 2009, and the implementation was reversed. The same thing happened in Germany in 2010. In Sweden, as we have heard earlier in the debate, we have seen that implementation has stopped. It is a great paradox that the Labour Party and the Right are so keen to implement a directive which, in its present form, will hardly ever be introduced in all EU countries. Why in the world is it going to be so urgent to have it implemented in Norway? The Christian People's Party is critical of schemes that rock the freedom of individuals to communicate freely without being monitored. The Data Storage Directive restricts privacy and freedom of expression. The Directive is based on a situation where suspects are monitored to see everyone as potential offenders. There's a big difference in principle from the way it is today. It's not a functional question, as the representative Solhjell quite correctly pointed out, it's a value question. The growth of the information society and the development of ever-new technology require that we have a clear and principled view on this issue: what is man worth, and what are the rights of individual citizens? How do we relate to an information flow that increasingly challenges the individual's right to privacy? A society is based on trust between authority and citizens. The instruments resulting from the Data Storage Directive are of such a nature that they contribute to weakening this trust between the State and the citizen, although I must say that the majority have made sincere efforts to remedy the damage caused to the package they have provided. The Data Protection Authority characterises the law as another step into the surveillance society. The majority in this room are rocking by the individual’s freedom to communicate freely without being monitored. Privacy and freedom of expression are threatened. A principle is introduced in which all are guilty until the opposite can be confirmed. In the fight against crime and terrorism, disproportionate measures are put in place, which, in the ultimate sense, contribute to a crisis of confidence between the state and the citizen. We know that privacy needs to be balanced against the need to combat crime effectively. In many cases, there will be good reasons to introduce stricter controls. Consideration must always be weighed. But if we do not have a conscious relationship with the fundamental principles we are considering, then we will almost go unnoticed by the basic principles of human value and the freedom of citizens, because arguments of value can always be put forward. Each step doesn't have to be dramatic, but it will be a dismantling of privacy based on the principle of ‘take it, then take it’.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e714	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e717	I think the most important thing about this whole law we're getting in place today is combating international crime. It is important to fulfil our international obligations in this regard. The Christian People's Party has been very high on the track with fear and spread what I would call some unwarranted propaganda, and the Højbråt also used in its post "Brother Sees You" and monitoring. Let me ask two questions to Høybråten: Will the Christian People's Party forbid the telecommunications companies to store traffic data, since the Christian People's Party believes this is monitoring? Why is it that banks are monitoring movements in our accounts, if registering our conversations is monitoring?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e726	My good colleague, Tore Nordtun, from the rogalands bench, now performs two quite serious things. First, he claims that the Christian People's Party is spreading propaganda that is not in harmony with reality. Secondly, he himself makes the same loss in the question he is now asking us. It should be well known to the representative Nordtun and other representatives in this room that the Christian People's Party is not at all a party to prohibit the storage of traffic data by telephone, as is the practice today. On the contrary, in negotiations with the Right, the Christian People's Party has proposed a continuation of that practice under certain conditions, but with a clear obligation of erasure. We have also opened a storage obligation for IP addresses; it also states in the setting. It is not that the minority here stands without alternatives to the Data Storage Directive, but we do not want to rush into joining the Directive. We can take time to make national policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e733	This will be a clean rogaland settlement! I know the representative Højbräten as a representative who has very clear principles. In his post, he said that it is a big principle question to store information in order to use it afterwards if something criminal has happened, and that it involves a ‘value issue’. My question to the representative of the Højbrätten is: what is the fundamental difference between what the majority today is in favour of, and the Christian People's Party's national option, which implies a storage obligation of IP addresses, which implies an acceptance that a store telephone communications between subscribers, in order to be able to use it afterwards if something criminal has happened? What is the fundamental difference between what the majority is in favour of, and the Christian People's Party is in favour of as a national alternative?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e741	I will try to answer as clearly as the representative Höie expects from me. I believe there is a big difference in principle between storing an IP address and storing who you write to, when you are on the Internet, where the receiver is located, etc., which will be the result of implementing the Data Storage Directive. But that's not how you might get the impression in this debate – and I tried to say it in my post – that everything is black or white. It's almost imperceptible that you go over these boundaries. Somewhere you have to put your foot down, and the Christian People's Party wants to do so against Brussels' directives on data storage in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e748	The Christian People's Party is among the parties that claim, in their comments, that they go against the bill for the sake of the children. The police have been concerned about getting longer storage time, not least in the fight against child abuse on the Internet. We've seen a number of examples that the necessary data has been deleted prematurely. In view of this, the Data Protection Authority has opened up longer than three weeks to store IP addresses. The Children's Ombudsman and Redd Barna have requested an alternative to the Data Storage Directive. Does the Christian People’s Party believe that the police do not understand the situation? Isn't it urgent for these kids? And if that's not the case, why doesn't the Christian People's Party promote an alternative proposal today for the sake of the children?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e753	Let me first remind the representative Haugli that the whole premise of the data storage directive is the fight against terrorism. Then it is quite right, as the representative Haugli says, that in the argument for some of the measures resulting from the Data Storage Directive, there is also consideration for combating, among other things. the importance of crime against children. That's one of the reasons why we in the setting, along with the other minority, open up a further storage obligation for IP addresses with a deletion obligation of three weeks. But we have also been willing in the negotiations with the Right – and it is known to the public – to discuss a longer storage obligation at that point, precisely in the light of the considerations mentioned by the representative Haugli here. I believe that the Storting in the name of propriety should take the time to discuss the national option much more thoroughly than the majority has requested with the proceedings in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e760	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e763	I want to start at the same place as Dagfinn Højbråten did. I went to high school in 1984, and we read '1984' in the class, I remember well. I remember we had two major objections to that this was going to happen at all times. The first objection was that it would never be possible to store as much information about a human being as is done in the 1984 book. The second objection was that it would never be possible to find a dictatorship so vicious that it would monitor people that way. Now we're there. Now, through a democracy, we have been able to create a system of governance so evil that you want to monitor the movement and communication of each citizen and who you are communicating with. And we've come to the technological point that it's actually possible, what George Orwell wrote about. A liberal democracy is about to decide that this should be done against its citizens. The worst thing is that what you want to fight, it doesn't work against. If you really want to fight the great criminal syndicates, mafia structures and terrorism, this is so easy to bypass that none of them will be taken. None of the big sharks are going to go into this web, because it's so easy to bypass that all the big sharks are going to make sure they're not there. Erna Solberg said the point is not to take the little sharks either. This shouldn't be the system to take the little perpetrators, those who do the little things, or the little cheating in a society. Then I wonder, who is it to take when not to take the big sharks, and when not to take the little sharks? Well, Erna Solberg said to me, someone always makes mistakes. That's when I realized. We're not going to take the big sharks, we're not going to take the little sharks, we're going to take the stupid sharks. Technology and politics always meet and are always demanding when they meet. The important thing for us in this room is actually to do so that what is considered human rights, what is considered liberal important rights in a society, is transferred from the analogue world to the digital world. What we consider reasonable to do to a human being in the analogue world shall be reasonable to do to a human being in the digital world. Now we're about to dramatically exceed that limit, dramatically exceed what we've been willing to do in the analogue world, as many speakers here have pointed out when it comes to monitoring. The left was the first party to take this up when this was up in the European Committee for the first time. I'm really glad it's a broad alliance. I'm very, very sorry that it's not wide enough today. This is a directive that rots from the inside. There's going to be a disintegration in every country where you've tried it. It is about to break up in the EU system, and all my liberal friends in the European Parliament are working hard to get rid of it. Why, then, is it urgent for Norway? Then you say you have to be so sure. It's said to be safe in all areas. Then I almost have to say, is there any system against this that has ever been safe? Last week we discussed in this hall DNA profiles that were on the way. We have almost weekly health records that end up on the wrong foot. We keep looking away that all traffic information that is being gathered is going on the road. Yes, sail the safest systems of the U.S. Department of Foreign Affairs. Swallow the safest systems show leakages. All the stories have shown us that if you collect information, it's also being abused, and it's going to leak out. I would like to address the proposals we have made today – a little too late, President, but it was a fun country meeting! What has been important for the Left, has been to gather police resources and give the police the opportunity to work in the traditional ways, giving the police the opportunity to also work with the new police methods that we gave them when we were in government, but they can't afford to use. In fact, crime is always being combated by traditional, good police work, and it's an illusion to think that gathering all the information about every citizen is going to make us a safer society at all times. I'm sure there'll be a more uncertain society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e786	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the suggestions she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e791	It was an interesting contribution from the leader of a party who was at the head to introduce space and telephone interception in a preventative context without any criminal activity, proposals that were later declared unconstitutional. But I'll leave it. My question to the representative Trine Skei Grande is the following: The Left and the Advance Party have found each other on the issue of data storage. To the class struggle, the representative Skei Grande stated in January that ‘The principle attitude of the party to privacy brings the parties together’. [[...]] In February, i.e. One month later, the Progress Party launched proposals to test all first- and second-generation immigrants to prevent terrorism, forced marriage and other conditions. Does Skei Grande stand by its opinions that the Progress Party has a principle of privacy and is a natural partner for the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e800	First to the first Haugli mentioned. The Labour Party voted in favour of this, too. The Workers' Party supported that implementation. But it's going to rip off a little bit of reality. I just want to say that I am very, very pleased with all parties that support the Left in the fight against the Data Storage Directive. Sjul if SV has not been in the party regarding health records, I am happy that they are in the party now. And sail if the Progress Party has had statements on DNA registration, which I take a great distance from, I'm glad they're voting right today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e807	Let me first express great respect for the Left's struggle for privacy. But I am a little surprised that the Left does not see that there is a danger that the noble struggle will help to ensure that the strong person's privacy is protected at the expense of the victim's right to privacy. What we're invited to decide here is when one's privacy conflicts with another's right to freedom and rights. This is a limit which the European Court of Human Rights has also recognised, namely that privacy is also about the right of the victim to privacy. Finland was convicted on a case where traffic data was ordered after a 12-year-old boy had been published a contact advertisement on the Internet. How does the leader of the Left view this issue? Do you disagree with the European Court of Human Rights, which also recognises the victim's right to privacy and that the police must have the means to combat crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e816	Right has a subtle rewriting of words, trying to turn the fight against crime into the fight for privacy. I had hoped that the Right would rather go for the suggestions left has put into this case, to provide the police with the resources to fight crime, to provide the police with the resources to follow the IP addresses we gave them the opportunity to get when we put together in government. Today, with today's government, the police have no resources to do that job. I would have thought that the Right would have helped us make those promises in relation to the Data Protection Agency's deleterious website and all that goes on to really combat the abuses that are also happening online. But, dear, there won't be any better assault if it's registered. It doesn't get any better for the individual person who's been assaulted, that it's registered. It's not like it's better for the 12-year-old that we're going to have the opportunity to record all the communication around your life so that that's not going to happen again. You have to fight crime, not register all citizens, and it is strange that the Right is in favour.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e823	The representative, Skei Grande and Left, have promoted a proposal for a representative on changes to the eco-nomy law, which should be an alternative course to the data storage directive, which we are also dealing with now. The main proposal on the legislative amendment side there is to make legislative changes to limit access to the provision of current traffic data, similar to the changes proposed by the government majority in the legislative proposal. So you realize that there's something good in the proposition as well. But my question to the representative Skei Grande is about the relationship with the other opponent parties. It's a good mix of lots that make up that alliance. At the Committee's examination, the Left-wing representative's proposal was not supported by any of the other opposing parties. What does the representative Skei Grande think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e831	I must say that I am happy today that it is such a broad alliance that supports privacy. I have to admit that it has often happened in this room that we have been alone on the privacy side. It has often happened that we have also had good results from the Right in important privacy matters in this room, where we have not had the opposition of the government parties with us today. But what's important about this case is that I think there's been an awakening among the Norwegian people. It has been seen what the Labour Party has contributed to this debate – a party that, with its history, has a rather poor rating in terms of monitoring. And the big tragedy for the Norwegian people in this case is that the Right has become trapped in a party that has a history of surveillance and privacy, with which I had hoped that the Right did not want to be in the party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e836	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e839	The current legislative proposal on the implementation of the Data Storage Directive is about combating serious crime, but it is also about strengthening privacy in an area that, in the opinion of many people today, is under-protected, and it is about tightening up and getting a clear framework for the type of data to be stored, and not least what conditions should apply to get this out to the police when the police need it to fight and detect serious crime. I'm going to be the first to admit – something you might not get the impression once you've heard the debate so far – that these are two considerations that are difficult to balance. It's not just a stencil that can be put on, and then one has won and the other has lost. I don't suspect any parties in this room to have noble motives to do the best, both to fight crime and not least to take care of privacy. In this way, I have to say that for some of us, privacy is a sum of many relationships; we are talking about children, we are talking about victims of crime – it can be women, it can be adults of both sexes – who would very much promote their own privacy against being able to get a clarification, detection and prevention against the intrusion to which they have been subjected. You have to bring that with you. As I and the majority of the population see it, the bill as it now exists, in agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right, is an important and correct measure for the police to have the necessary tools to keep track of the development of crime resulting from the new technology, thus safeguarding the privacy of quite a number of vulnerable groups, as the Storing has said through several treatments to have an increased focus and increased protection. It is theoretical and unrealistic to believe that crime in today's society can be combated satisfactorily without this tool. I have to say I disagree very much with Trine Skei Grande's description that the police have virtually no use for this tool. In repeated, major cases, large fish have just been taken by means of traffic data. It's well listed in the proposition, it's media-focused issues, it's known methodology, and there's no criminal policy debate about these traffic data really played the role that the police claim they've done. I would like to illustrate the need for the police with a quote from the Police Directorate's hearing opinion on the matter: «With house burglars came, with money notes came false, with the train came train robberies, with the car came pro-milling and with the welfare state came social security fraud.» Crime follows societal developments, and the police must follow societal developments, including in terms of methodology. Society is through-digitalised, and the police must also have access to digital media in their efforts to combat crime. This is the strong driving force for the adoption of these rules as they are now being proposed, and – I kept saying – also as quickly as possible. The legislative proposal fully demonstrates the importance of traffic data in the fight against crime. Traffic data has been central to resolving as serious issues as killing, body damage resulting in death, serious drug cases, gross traffic, rape and sexual assault against children under 10 and 14 years of age. For example, traffic data has proved to be decisive in clarifying the case of the ‘Skrik’, the ‘Orderud’ case and the ‘Nokas’ case. Fortunately, to this day our country has been proud of extensive acts of terrorism. Historical traffic data are an important tool in the prevention and control of terrorism, and we need to ensure, for the future, that the responsible authorities have access to such necessary data. In this way, it is paradoxical that the Progress Party, which is now voting against these proposals, is in favour of its own proposal to lower the threshold for what is even more intrusive towards citizens in terms of combating terrorism, namely the need to be able to listen. In proposal 4, the Progress Party proposes to be able to listen, i.e. to lower the threshold, and to intensify the type of activity that I define as fully transparent monitoring. The fact that you have to listen to communication or listen to space must be far more intrusive than that telecommunications companies have an obligation to store when you have called, where you have called, and who you have called. Given this starting point, it has been important for me that data storage rules are designed to strengthen privacy as much as possible. I have to give credit to the Right for the suggestions that came from the Right meetings before going into the Storting with this matter, and the input that has come, but also for the negotiations and what has been made by these. It has contributed to the fact that the interests of privacy and the fight against crime have received double profits. The proposition shows that it is possible to find good and balanced solutions, and the agreement between the Right and the Workers' Party represents such a strengthening of privacy. Storage obligations relate to traffic data, location data, subscription and user data resulting from the use of telephone, Internet access, e-mail and broadband telephony. The content is not stored. In nature, therefore, the storage and delivery of data is a much more modest interference in privacy than, for example, the use of data. coercive agents such as listening or hiding camera surveillance. There we experience that the Progress Party chooses to go beyond what the majority does today. The storage time is proposed to be set at six months. With the exception of IP addresses, which are currently stored for up to three weeks, much of the data covered by the storage obligation is already stored for three or five months. The debate sometimes suggests that this is a regime change, or a kind of paradigm shift, against privacy. But de facto, we're facing a three- to five-month storage, which is happening today, and it's absolutely right, as most people have had, that there's an obligation to this. Most of the data requested today by the police are stored for less than six months. However, experience shows that data between six and twelve months of age are requested in the investigation of the most serious criminal offences, including: The killing cases. I am somewhat concerned about the actions that cannot be resolved in the future due to the fact that data should not be stored for more than six months. It is therefore important that the length of the storage period is one of the conditions to be evaluated after four years. In the extension of the purpose of storage to crime prevention, extradition shall be to the police and prosecution authorities in order to combat serious crime. Dispatching shall take place after the judgment of the court. These are the great promises of privacy made at Stortingen’s treatment today – the fact that there is now a clear barrier to the type of crime that allows the police to obtain this data, and not least the fact that it is subject to judicial control. For the provision of traffic data, the general rule is that there should be grounds for suspecting a criminal offence to be punishable by imprisonment for four years or more. For base station search, the requirement is five years – it is more inclusive. Communication between criminals is particularly relevant in organised crime. Therefore, if the offence is deemed to have been committed as part of organised crime, the penalty framework requirement has been reduced to three years. Finally, individual offenders are included in an exhaustive list of lower-criminal offenders, but where data are considered to be particularly central in the investigation. In addition to the fact that there must be grounds for suspecting a criminal offence covered by those conditions, data must be presumed to have a significant impact on the investigation. Many have expressed concern about the potential for ejaculation. I understand that. There is something that, no matter what the Storting should come to today, is going to worry us all. However, the question is now entirely in the hands of the Storting, in the sense that there is a need for legislative changes in order for data to be provided in other cases. It is an important principle of the legislative proposal that is now being adopted. One goes from a situation where, to a very large extent, it has not been permitted what kind of criminal acts provide the basis for the collection of data, to now establish that principle. It's a good protection against purpose slipping. The legislative proposal placed a great deal of emphasis on data security. This is further strengthened and clarified in the Agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right. And a number of requirements are introduced to strengthen the security of data storage, including: the obligation of concession and also that arising from the agreement in respect of encryption. In fact, we are in a situation where this bill continues to allow the police to use a very important methodology, while the majority of people contribute to the tightening up and clearing up of the data protection weaknesses that have been raised in the past. So I think this is a day that can help to strengthen privacy, especially for the most vulnerable, in order to give traditional privacy a strength, but not least to facilitate that the police who are faced with serious abuses against individuals and associations actually have the opportunity to investigate and find out who is behind it and to conduct an ordinary criminal procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e876	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e879	The debate is about an understanding of what the Data Storage Directive is – whether it is monitoring or not. Therefore, I will try to challenge the Minister of Justice on his definition of monitoring. In order to provide the Minister of Justice with some relief, I will at least try to quote what professionals in computer science consider to be monitoring. It's when you're watching something, or you're still having an observation or an observation. Professionals say that monitoring is where it is important to systematically focus on personal details in order to control, influence or protect. Does the Council agree with such a definition?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e886	I think that definition is something more precise than those we have heard other actors in the debate present to us. The closest I come to a definition of monitoring must be the Progress Party's proposal No. 4 in this case, where you want to lower the threshold to hear what people are saying on the phone. Going into the content of conversations, lowering the threshold for it and intensifying that type of activity, I think is the closest we're going to monitor in this room. That's why I think it's paradoxical that the Progress Party is raising this question. When it comes to the question of storing traffic data, I find it difficult to see that it and also the storage of other types of data — e.g. use of credit cards, which are stored for 10 years, we had the legislation on money laundering, where we store financial information – can be defined as monitoring all the time that does not happen permanently and in real time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e893	A year ago, quite exactly, an aggregate increase in the number of police records passed the new law. It is also mentioned in this case and in the agreement we are now discussing. It clarifies and reinforces privacy in relation to the police's own records, and it shall also ensure the effectiveness of police work. That is why it is important for general data protection, and also because it opens up or demands that there be a system of so-called privacy advisors. At the same time, the police are struggling with their existing ICT systems, so this needs to be seen in a context. My question to the Minister of Justice is: What is the state of implementation of the Police Register Act, and what is the status of upgrading police ICT systems in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e902	I think I need more time than that time for lines allows. I just want to say that it is absolutely essential for the provisions adopted today by the Stortinge to come into force under the Police Register Act. One of the reasons we wanted to present it to the Storting before this case and also to have it adopted here is that this is the second part of the privacy debate up against the police business – not only in terms of how to obtain the data and what kind of conditions apply to it, but what to do when you have obtained the data and how to handle it, delete the data, etc. We're aiming for this law to come into force in the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e907	I would like to quote some of what the Minister of Justice said when he was a private representative of big business: I think that we politicians should be better off using what I call the privacy lacmus test: how would a self-react to being subjected to a close and offensive method on a false basis? If you use this lacmus test in criminal policy debates, it changes character because most people would think it was most unpleasant in retrospect to know that your phone or PC had been tapped without valid justification. Or that the living room, the kitchen, or the bedroom at home had been rummy because the aupair was suspected of being involved in the planning of a terrorist act. My question to the Minister of Justice is short and straightforward: how does it feel to iron out your own lacmus test?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e914	This, I think, is a very good quote because it is a salmon must test you always have to take, and that has been one of the reasons why, when we have promoted this proposal, we have done more than what you did in Germany and what you did in the Czech Republic, and what is actually also the legal situation in some other countries. The choice of judicial review with regard to the delivery of the data was such that it was decided to set such a high level of penalties for when to get this out is precisely the result of such a lacmus test. And so it's that what's mentioned there, is precisely measures that are about listening and getting hold of the content, and that I see as far more invasive than my credit card information being stored for ten years, or that my financial arrangements are stored so that they are subject to evaluation under the Money Laundering Directive, or that it is stored where I called from and who I called at some point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e919	The Council of State and I share the objective of effectively preventing and resolving serious crime. In this specific case, however, we disagree as to the extent to which the data retention directive will be effective, and what will be the consequence of implementing the directive in Norwegian law. There's something that says that we have a duty to have as much trust in good people as we do in poor people. Most people are good, I will emphasize. Does the Council of State think that his own party has adequately challenged the risk of storing traffic data being misused by people with bad intentions? Is the Council of State that it is unlikely that criminals will be able to bypass the extensive storage of traffic data through e.g. Skype and other communication channels? Is it not also information about ordinary people's conversations and text messages and emails that are being stored, but not targeted to try to get rid of crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e927	The circumvention argument has been widely used in the debate. It's an argument that you really have to go in and evaluate. But we actually have very little historical experience because the criminals actively and in a good way are able to bypass the police methodology. It concerns a wide range of methods. It was said when fingerprints were launched – in the 1930s it was well – that then all the criminals started to use gloves. Fingerprints are still one of the most important methods we have today. It's amazing: the most professional people put fingerprints back, and that's often what reveals them. DNA has come -- we see DNA is left behind. It is also the case that in the cases where you should have expectations that you are so organized and professional – for example. The Nokas case – should have nothing to collect by obtaining traffic data. I remind you that the head of the Nokas case was just obtained down in Malaga, Spain, on the basis of a SIM card that was found.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e932	I have my letter from the Ministry of Justice and Police to the Stortinget Transport and Communications Committee. It came night to Tuesday, March 29, and it was Constituent Justice Minister Grete Faremo who signed it. She writes, among other things.\t\t You ‘The economic consequences of judicial proceedings and the new tasks of the Data Protection Authority [[(p.a. (7)]] [[p.a. 9]] So before the trial, we don't know the economic consequences of the agreement between the Labour Party and the Right. Since some hours after all will be a decision in this room, we might have known the economic consequences of this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e942	First of all, it is true that the negotiated agreement has consequences in itself, and it was mentioned in particular against the control activities of the Data Protection Supervisor and also the judicial proceedings. It is not uncommon in this room that laws are passed giving the government the task of returning to what kind of costs are associated with this. With regard to both the Data Protection Agency and the courts — especially the courts where we have had a few days to go through, especially in the case of the emergency mechanism — we see that there are costs that are well below 30 million. in the case of the Court of Justice. We will come back to the Storting and explain that in the ordinary budgetary processes. It's not unusual. We did the same when it came to the adoption of the whole new penal code, where we needed new ICT, among other things, and also the police records law, which was referred to in the previous line, where we were just going to spend time afterwards to see what it would cost to do this. I will promise that I will do what I can to get back to Stortinget with adequate information in the ordinary budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e947	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e950	The purpose of the Data Storage Directive is to harmonise the legislation on the storage of electronic traffic data in order to ensure that they are accessible to the police in the process of detecting serious crime. This directive was the subject of thorough debates in the EU bodies and in the Member States to strike a good balance between heavy-weight privacy considerations and the societal considerations behind it – the same debate that we have had. The fact that our debate comes several years after our neighbouring country took its decision underlines the limitation in our form of association with EU cooperation, namely that we do not participate in the joint European debate before the decisions are taken. It gives us a limited ability to influence, to say it cautiously. At the same time, through the EEA Agreement, we are obliged to participate in the harmonisation of the legislation provided for by this Directive. Those who refuse to include this Directive in the EEA Agreement point to the right of reservation. Article 102 of the EEA Agreement requires that there should also be common legislation in the EEA area to ensure legal certainty and uniformity in the internal market. Therefore, the agreement states that the parties shall endeavour to reach an agreement. The possibility of reservation arises indirectly from the requirement for agreement. This is an important point of the agreement, precisely because we do not participate in decision-making processes in the EU, and therefore cannot ensure that specific Norwegian matters or interests are taken into account, as the Member States can. This means that there has to be something special with or for Norway that makes the provisions of the EU have been adopted, not suitable for us. One such example is the Renewable Directive. Our renewable share is 60 pst. – three times the EU target. It is then obvious that the estimates for the increase each country is committed to are very poor for Norway. It is therefore necessary to negotiate an adaptation to Norwegian conditions, and Norway and the EU must therefore agree. Without such an agreement, no implementation. The Data Storage Directive is not of such a nature. The important differences between privacy and societal considerations on which this is based are no different in Norway than in our neighbouring European countries. We can't rely on any particular Norwegian circumstances that make this not true right here with us. As it has been adopted, it also provides a considerable scope for action so that we decide for ourselves key elements such as the length of storage, the safety of storage and the strictness of data collection requirements. The ever-recurring requirement of individual teams to use this reservation option does not address the policy content of the EEA Agreement. The whole point of the agreement is to harmonise rules in the internal market in order to ensure fair competition and legal certainty for businesses and people. The EEA Agreement does not provide for a free choice on the top shelf of the rules to be followed, but it has an emergency exit for situations where the common legislation does not capture quite specific Norwegian circumstances. To date, it has not been necessary to use this option, because we have come to understand the specific Norwegian needs justified by circumstances or traditions that differ from our European neighbouring countries, such as the wine monopoly regime and the use of differentiated employers’ fees in district policy. The Workers' Party does not agree to include the Data Storage Directive in the EEA Agreement because we have to. We say yes because we think that makes sense. It provides, as the law now stands, a much better regulation of the storage, deletion, storage and transparency requirements of traffic data than current legislation does, and will ensure that Norway can fully participate in the important EU cooperation on harmonisation, problem solving and coordination that has an impact on the competitiveness of the ecosystem sector. It is important for Norwegian companies. A little over two years ago, in February 2009, a unanimous decision was taken to implement the third EU directive on money laundering and to amend our legislation in line with the directive. What's this about? Well, it reinforces the requirements and legal provisions that require banks and other credit institutions to monitor the movements of all our accounts. Unlike traffic data storage, this is a real surveillance. The purpose is to detect illegalities, including: money laundering. The computer systems that follow any movement on our accounts alert us if anything suspicious happens. Many have experienced being called up by their bank and asked if they have control of the credit card because the alarm had gone – if so, for example. the card is charged in both Oslo and Madrid at the same time. People are pleased with this service because it reveals and prevents fraud attempts. But people get this help because their accounts are being monitored to see if we're going to do something illegal. This is what the so-called data protection alliance parties in today's settings refer to as: ‘to lay down the democratic rule of law that everyone is innocent until the opposite is proved to be true.’;» [[...]] This principleal limit of the legal state itself, which they claim we are trodden by the Data Storage Act, crossed once in the 1990s, when the supervision of our bank accounts started. If anything happens on our accounts that gives us grounds for suspecting that we are committing illegalities, not just the alarm will go. There is also a notification to Ecocrim, which will carry out more investigations and, where appropriate, carry out investigations. Between our accounts and Ecokrim, there is no court to decide whether Ecokrim should be made transparent. The law that all parties in this room agreed to in February 2009 prohibits the owner of the account from knowing that the alarm has passed and that he is in the searchlight of Økokrim. This has been going on since the beginning of the 1990s. The 2006 Annual Report of Ecocrim shows that over the past five years, Ecocrim has received 22,767 reports of suspicious transactions, but only a few end up in a conviction. We're all being monitored. Some come to Økokrim's searchlight, but very few have done something wrong. The Data Protection Authority was very sceptical about this intrusion that happened, and wrote in its hearing opinion that the police's extended arm is even longer. The balance between privacy and police needs was very central in the legislative proposal at that time. But unlike today, all parties say that the balance was acceptable, even from a privacy point of view. How could the parties that today say no, that time vote for laws that require banks to monitor the movements of our accounts, just to check if we were going to do something wrong? Where was the idea of the principles of the rule of law at that time, about two years ago? To store traffic data for six months, to require a court order to have access to them by the police on grounds of suspicion of serious crimes with a criminal record for many years is, according to these parties, to take a long step into the surveillance society, as they write in the suspension. But to oblige banks to continuously monitor the movements of our accounts, automatically send notice to Ecokrim and refuse to notify the account holder – and this is information that is stored for ten years – is not. So that's where you separate teams with us. For this is to monitor innocent people, without justified suspicion, such as, among other things. The representative, Højbräten, pointed out, as a matter of principle, unacceptable earlier in the debate. This is not a matter of intervention, and I hope some of these parties can explain to us during the debate how this can relate, if there is such a natural and logical context. The protection of privacy is important. But in some contexts it has to be weighed against heavy social considerations, as we have done in combating economic crime, and as we do today in relation to other serious crimes. But it is important that we constantly hold the live debate on the position of privacy in a society where technological development makes us all abandon electronic tracks that can be put together and abused in different ways. Therefore, I hope that all parties look forward to the big message that will come about the position of privacy and that will provide a good basis for this broad and important debate. Finally, it is also a bit funny that the greatest pecuniary concern of these new so-called data protection alliance parties about the law we are about to adopt today is that it should be too expensive to keep the data in a responsible and responsible manner. Concern about costs is usually not so prominent when these parties talk about their heart matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e993	It's going to be line change. The first representative is Mr Karin S. Woldseth. Afraid of the gallery, an audience comes with comments. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e998	The President will ask for... [[The unrest continues, the president clubs]] Then the first representative is Karin S. Woldseth. [[The concern in the gallery continues.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1003	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1008	Just a minute. – The President will draw attention to the remaining members of the gallery that opinions from the gallery, both positive and negative, are prohibited in the Storting – just as they have been said. Then the president gives the floor to Mr. Karin S. Woldseth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1015	The representative of Svein Roald Hansen said in his statement that Norway is no different from the other countries in the EEA area in terms of combating serious crime and privacy considerations. Now it is the case that the Czech Republic, Slovenia, Romania, Ireland and Germany say that this violates privacy and is therefore unconstitutional. In Sweden, there are other reasons for postponing it for one year. I want to ask the representative Hansen: what is the real reason? Why is it acceptable to sacrifice data protection in order to cooperate with Europol and the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1020	At my discretion, you do not sacrifice privacy. I believe that we have found a good balance between privacy considerations and the need to combat serious crime as this law now stands. So with regard to these judgments in the Czech Republic, in Germany, etc., it's not the very principle that they say no to, that's the way they've implemented it. And one of the mistakes you make, for example. In the Czech Republic, police use these data to investigate crimes that have a penal framework that is too low. We have previously been briefed in the EFTA Parliamentary Committee on the audit when it started in the EU. It was said that in Italy, police can access these data to investigate mobile phones that tourists have stolen. It was never meant to be used for that type of crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1028	So far, there's not so much to suggest that the Workers' Party is willing to recognise that imposing the storage of people's movement patterns is crossing an important principleal limit. Instead, we hear a lot of substantiation, I think, of the type: we do this very much already, so this can't be a problem, but it can't be a problem to store people's personal data when we do it already. So in contrast to today's eradicating practice, absenteeism is imposed in the Workers' Party's argument. Another thing I have not heard about the Workers' Party is the requirements that exist for the processing of the data to be stored today. They only apply in Norway. It is fully possible to place this storage under tender to other countries. Maybe a lot of telecommunications operators will too, because this is expensive. What is the Workers' Party's comment on that, with the experience we have, with cheating servants in both the police and the banking community? How will the Workers' Party address such a challenge to privacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1035	I think what the questioner is presenting as a problem underlines the importance of having a common European regulatory framework for this. The check if, for example: add to one of our European neighbours, should in principle be as good as we are, because we have a common regulatory framework to operate within. And of course, you can construct possibilities that you can store it in -- let's call it -- data tax havens, that's outside this area, you can imagine. But that does not mean that we should not use the possibilities we have to harmonise the legislation in Europe, to which we are obliged as long as we participate in this cooperation – which we have therefore chosen to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1042	I will follow up on the previous replica by challenging the question: In what ways does the EU Data Storage Directive contribute to harmonising safety requirements for storage? It could seem that the representative suggested that there were such requirements in the directive, and I would like to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1047	It is true that countries have a great deal of freedom to determine the storage time within the limits set – 6–24 months – and also to determine access to the data based on the intention of the Directive, namely that they should be used to investigate serious crimes, rather than everyday crime, such as drug use. theft of mobile phones. I am absolutely sure that privacy concerns have been strong in the debate in all countries. There are different views and concerns about this directive in all countries, which has provided the basis for debate. It is also being followed up, through increased requirements for and security around storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1054	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1057	I find it sad that you have a Minister of Justice who cannot see that monitoring groups that are involved in crime, or who are suspected of criminal activity, is something quite different than monitoring almost 5 million inhabitants in Norway by storing all information in telecommunications and data communications. I have heard some representatives on this platform talk very much about the children – and everyone agrees on that. However, it does not help many of the children to keep a register where the information is stored, when the police do not have the resources to investigate and see to it that something is done about these matters. It does not only help with a directive and storage, you actually have to make sure that you have the money to carry out research, which I unfortunately feel that the Council of State might not be equally concerned about. I think that if you had given the police the same resources that you're now going to use on a directive that's about storing all this information, you might have researched and solved a lot more things than what you're doing today. No one likes to be monitored 24 hours a day. No one likes the feeling that others follow everything you do. No one likes the state to record who you're in contact with at all times. No one likes to keep a log of where you've been at all times. No one would like the Post on behalf of the police to register every letter you send or receive. The East German intelligence organisation Stasi had a total of 91,000 employees who registered and monitored the East German population. In addition, they had 174,000 informants. Nevertheless, the Stasi archive only had information about 6 million inhabitants of the GDR. Unfortunately, East Germany was not unique in this respect. The Soviet Union had the KGB and Romania Securitate. New technology has made monitoring much cheaper and easier to implement since Stasis' horror. The Workers' Party and the Right will now introduce the EU Data Storage Directive. The directive requires all telecommunications companies to store whom you call, where you call, how long you talk, who you send SMS to, where the receiver is, when you are on the Internet, how long and to whom you send e-mail. In Denmark, the Directive has led to the average storage of 82 000 data per Danish in 2010. In Romania, the Data Storage Directive has been declared unconstitutional. This is, after all, a country that has learned from history — a story in which Ceaussescu ran hard and the secret police Securitate monitored large sections of the population. In Germany, the implementation of the Directive has also been declared unconstitutional. This is incidentally also a country that has had very poor monitoring experience, first from the Gestapo and then from the Stasi. Last week, the Czech administrative court also refused to implement the directive. It is now quite unlikely that the directive will be implemented across the EU. It is difficult to understand what the Workers' Party and the Right really are trying to achieve by drawing an EU that itself is beginning to doubt the monitor. In practice, the Data Storage Directive reverses the principle that all are innocent until proven otherwise. Now the whole population has to be monitored as if they were potential terrorists. This shows that the Right Party and the Labour Party no longer have any confidence in the citizens of this country. It's extra scary that the Right actually goes for this, when we see what's in the Right Principle Programme about trust between society and the individual. I quote: ‘Right will build society on the trust of the individual.’ Mandatory monitoring of all Norwegian citizens represents a massive mistrust of its citizens. I don't know how it works in the Right, but in the Progress Party it is that the Party programme is a work instruction that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has to follow. I have noticed that, among other things. Right Erna Solberg has claimed that the Data Storage Directive is not monitoring, because no one will have access to the data without a legal recognition. This is the same thing as saying that camera surveillance is not camera surveillance until someone sits down and sees through the videotapes. In fact, I have greater confidence in the Data Protection Agency than in the Right in terms of the definition of what is monitoring, and the Data Protection Authority has clearly stated that the Data Storage Directive is monitoring. Let me also say a few words about police methods. I believe that Arne Johannessen from the Joint Police Association is a bit right, even though he is from the Workers' Party. Monitoring everything and everyone can make it easier to solve crime. If you let the police take care of everything for privacy, freedom of expression and other reasons, then you end up with a police state. When Norway introduces the Data Storage Directive, it takes a major step towards a police state and a monitoring society. The Progress Party does not want Norway to become a police state, but we believe that the police must have the tools to do with people who are actually suspected. We are therefore promoting two concrete proposals on this in the vote – a proposal to strengthen the monitoring capacity of the police and the Oslo police against criminal environments, and a proposal to lower the threshold for monitoring potential terrorists. The proceedings before the Committee on this matter have been completely irresponsible. The agreement between the Right and Workers' Party was published shortly before the case was to be given, and the Committee did not have time to consider what the agreement actually meant before the case was to be given. I don't know. 05.33 in the morning came the answer from the Ministry of Justice, approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" 09.30 came the answer from the Ministry of Transport, and approx. %d %s %d %s" is "%d %s" The matter was sent out at 11 a.m. In addition, the majority of the Committee decided that the Ministry’s response to the Committee’s questions should not be annexed to the recommendation, contrary to the usual practice. What is it really Right and the Workers' Party was so afraid of in these answers? Well, let me read a clarifying sentence from the Ministry of Transport's answer: ‘Summaryally, the proposals contained in the Agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right will entail very high costs and will be very challenging to implement.’ It is frightening that, in a matter of individual citizens' rights and privacy, we are not dealing with the usual democratic rules of the game at Stortinget. The direction this case has taken, gives me a bad feeling. Then I want to get a little bit into the source protection. I record that there are twelve sentences in the agreement between the Right and Workers' Party on the protection of sources and the importance of preserving the protection of sources. I think everyone must be aware that being alerts in Norway has been difficult to do now, but with the new agreement, there is a great likelihood that there will be even fewer warnings of illegalities, of fear of its consequences, especially when it comes to alerting matters in state enterprises. I also record that there is a lot of word and little concrete action in terms of how to protect both the press and the alerts from the fact that information is going to go astray, and that it should also be possible to use it against both the press and the alerts. Unfortunately, I believe – for all those who have wanted more openness in our society, and for the alerts to be taken seriously and given the opportunity to come up with alerts – that with the introduction of the Data Storage Directive it is the very opposite we will experience. I am very pleased that the press is very clear that this is a bad directive. It's an attack on the press's source protection. Furthermore, I would like to raise the proposals that the Progress Party has promoted in the matter alone and together with the Christian People's Party, SV and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1097	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1102	Once again, the Progress Party and the representative Hoksrud argue that Norway is becoming a police state if we implement the Data Storage Directive. One thing is that the representative reveals quite a hole in his or her history skills, but what I have more difficulty in understanding is how the Progress Party can dismiss the hearing recordings from the Police Directorate, Kripos, the Police Lawyers, the Norwegian State Attorney's Office, the National Attorney and the Stine Sofie Foundation and establish that data storage is not an appropriate tool for serious crime. My question to the representative is: what knowledge does the Progress Party have about investigating, for example: the spread of child pornography or terrorism which those consultancies do not have?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1109	What this is about is that you see an ever-increasing overlap and that you will come a step closer to a police state with the proposal that is now before you. Then I register that the representative Anne Marit Bjørnflaten does not include in this debate that Redd Barna and the Children's Ombudsman, who I think may be the best to ensure the safety and legal security of children, are very critical for the implementation of the Data Storage Directive and believe that this is not the solution. We also hear police officers working with children and young people say that you are concerned about not getting money to investigate. Then I am not sure that spending a lot of money on a directive and storage is the right thing. I think you should actually spend the money to make sure that they can investigate and solve the issues that lie there, and that you can't do anything with today, because there's no money to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1116	The progress party has, in a known style, gone high on the track in this case. Their problem is that they're offensive on both sides of the way at the same time. It's not a good combination. The company with SV in connection with the fight against crime, and for that part in relation to privacy, does not sound good to me. At the same time, the National Government of the Progress Party has tried to combat crime, the extent to which space listening and DNA registration appear to be the antidote. All law enforcement and police agencies are asking for this tool in their work against serious crime and to secure the daily lives of most people. Arne Johannessen of the Joint Police Association questions the basis and competence by reviewing the professional judgements of the police. That's why I'm going to continue a little bit where the Bjørnflate left off: how can the Progress Party set aside the police's assessments? And why do the Progress Party and Hoksrud think that the party is better suited to see this than the police themselves and can define their needs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1123	Fortunately, we are politicians. That means that we as a political party should deal with both privacy and the fight against crime. We have a responsibility for the totality. The Progress Party is a party which proposes, and which has proposed, many measures to combat crime. In fact, the most important thing is to ensure that the police get resources and resources so that they can make targeted efforts against the criminal environment. The difference is that you now get a lot of money to spend on a directive and storage, which you really don't know will have the effect that Halleraker's representative is trying to do. The Progress Party has proposed concrete measures, but there is thus a difference between monitoring everyone and targeting the target groups. I believe that the fight against crime is much better by going to the targeted groups instead of monitoring everyone, as the Right Party and the Labour Party – which unfortunately have become the ‘monitoring comrades’ – will do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1131	I stand here with a print from the Evening Post on 19 March, which I think is quite interesting. Two of Hoksrud’s party colleagues take up why they think we should implement the Data Storage Directive – first of all, the Vice-Chairman of the Progress Party, head of the Judicial Committee, Per Sandberg, who says that it is obvious that the fight against crime is affected when telecommunications companies cut the storage time. I quote: ‘And we can’t be in it. The day on which the Stortinget will decide on the Directive, there may have been a lot of things going on that may have led to a reassessment by Frp.’ Then Hans Frode Kielland continues Asmyhr – and I quote: ‘It’s a paradox that Frp, who traditionally wants to provide the police with all the necessary tools to combat crime, is now on the sideline of this case because we have taken a stand too early. I want to work for Frp to turn." How will the representative Hoksrud characterise the opinions of his party colleagues?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1146	Firstly, during the hearing in the Transport and Communications Committee, we got quite clear feedback from the telecommunications companies that this is no problem. So there will be no shorter storage times with the new legislation. So this is not problematic at all. But I record that the fundamental difference between the Workers' Party and the Right Now and the Advance Party is that we want to target the efforts against the risk groups, the groups we are looking for, while the Workers' Party and the Right will rather monitor everyone and in that way perhaps take some. But I don't think it's like just getting enough information, you can take people. I actually think it might be the exact opposite. It was also seen in the United States after 11 September, when you had information, but you couldn't use the information. It's my fear here, too, that you'll get a lot of information, but you can't target, and you don't want targeted efforts. That is what the Progress Party wants, and that is what the Progress Party has proposed, namely that we focus on the groups you are looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1153	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1156	I allow myself initially to make a small remark. I think that the term ‘companies’ is as small as the term ‘companies’ that you use about yourself, namely ‘companies of personal interest’. Both parts are a little bit hollow. In fact, for the police to be able to solve crimes, it is absolutely vital that there is evidence to show who the perpetrator is. The police and prosecution authorities have for many years been able to show why a number of crimes have not been solved, because traffic data has not been stored. The representative Sandberg relied on professionals in his argumentation and in his attempt at logic here earlier today, but the prosecuting authorities and the police will not listen to the Prosecution Party. The agreement between the Right and the Workers' Party ensures the means by which serious organised crime, travelling profit-criminals, the spread of child abuse and terrorism can be remedied or resolved more effectively and effectively than at present. It surprises us that there are several parties that have not submitted proposals that help the police to do this. The representative, Mr Solhell, refers to the initiative of the minority parties – and to use a Western expression: it was vesty stuff! He actually stayed no longer than when the agreement between the Right and the Workers' Party was presented. Then there was a massive attack on points that should have been in front of the negotiating meeting. In addition, when the representative of the Central Party, Sjelmo Nordås, refers to the fact that the Right would not negotiate with them because we wanted the directive, this is directly wrong. The right moved into these negotiations with two main pillars: Point 1: We wanted national legislation in this field – all the premises for this were presented to both parties. Point 2: We wanted a special strengthening of privacy – also in other areas of society. With all due respect, it was a little bit of accumulating and concrete, what we got from the minority parties. That is why we continued the negotiations with the Labour Party. The agreement is important for all those who want the protection of sensitive data to be strengthened. A number of key privacy principles — including in other areas of society — have been implemented in the right. It is now a fundamental principle that everyone has the right of access to information about himself – storage and logging requirements – i.e. to trace the use of traffic data. Storage, access and deletion of data subject to storage requirements are becoming far more stringent than at present. Four different investigations over the last ten years have demonstrated that the regulatory framework has so far been unclear, unyielding and unevenly practiced by the various telecommunications operators. The establishment of judicial review before data can be provided to the police and the conditions under which data can only be provided if serious crime is suspected strengthen this security. The right-hand party and the Workers' Party have also committed themselves to strengthening the Data Protection Authority so that the requirements of the agreement can be verified. The combination of these elements gives a much better solution than what we have today. The Progress Party has therefore proposed the creation of a new DNA register, where information on all immigrants and asylum seekers should be stored. This register shall be directly searchable by the police, without requiring high penalties or the security valve of judicial control. In my opinion, such a register would be much more privacy-intensive than the extension of the retention period, and would not result in any targeting of police tools. It has to be allowed to point out the opposite logic of this diametrical problem. It shall also be mentioned that the majority of the Committee is pressing through the matter. The majority don't do that at all. The progress plan has been in place for several months; no later than last Wednesday, a "consulted" committee was in favour of progress. All batches have been able to present their full alternatives to the design of a national storage law during this treatment. It surprises me that the opportunity has not been used. It serves neither privacy nor the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1185	It has been an exciting day to sit and follow up on a lot of good and rich articles. I think it was sad that, in the final examination of the matter, the Committees suddenly got so fast, when so many new things came in. A large minority wanted to spend more time, both in the Foreign Affairs Committee and in the Transport Committee. I am surprised that the majority parties do not have a little more scope and see that it is important in such big and complicated matters – when some parties want to go into it more thoroughly and consider the proposals that are coming, that there is no possibility of doing so. Then there is something that has been positive in this round as well, and it shows a maturity in the Norwegian EU and EEA debates. Since 1993 and until today, we have not had a single debate in which we have really gone into the content of the directives. Now it has been done and dared to discuss the matter, the importance of the matter and have been in favour and contrary to the content of the directive, regardless of the sender. It makes us have a whole new alliance here today that we call the privacy alliance, with both yes-people and no-people, and we agree on a case. Some of the great thing in the Right, I think, is that there have been many representatives there who have followed their own beliefs and strongly argued against the Directive even though they are the most thought-out yes-people we know. I mention e.g. Nikolai Astrup, an active EU-debate, who sits on the board of the European Movement. It is healthy for the Norwegian EEA debate in the future that we finally dare to discuss the content of the matter, regardless of whether we are in favour of or against Norwegian EU membership. I would just like to say, on behalf of the most active no-parties, that we have been too many directives, because we think the directive is good. I am surprised that many yes-people sitting here in the Chamber have never opposed a single directive coming from Brussels. It should make them reflect on whether they dare to enter critically into the matters that are actually coming. I am not surprised that this directive has created the broadest debate across borders, because privacy and the right to privacy are fundamental in society. The Data Storage Directive will significantly interfere with the privacy of citizens. All telecommunications companies have to store who you call, where you call, when you call, how long you talk, who you send text messages to, where the receiver is, when you are on the Internet, how long, and who you send a nice email to. In practice, the Directive means that all the five million inhabitants of Norway are to be monitored when using telecommunications. What would have been said if we had proposed the same for the mail, that all the letters that are sent should be registered – who sent them, and who receives them? It's an unmistakable thought that you should think of that idea. But in relation to the logic of the Workers' Party and the Right, you should also do it. Any communication between people can potentially detect crime. As elected representatives, we are ombudsmen, and we are to fend for the right to privacy, and we are to put ourselves at all times critical of the power of the state and the power of the state over the lives of the individual. Technology offers unprecedented opportunities in many social fields. We as elected representatives must dry up to rule, we must dry up to set limits and say that enough is enough, because it will always be a matter of using technology in new areas, but there are some basic values that we want to fence around, and that is the right to privacy. The fact that four central government councils and four government councils from SV chose to take theses, I am very pleased. Because of this, we have had this lively debate, because it has become a real debate. Thank you to the state councils who chose to take the heavy decision to break out of the government's majority in such an important matter. For it has laid the groundwork, so that we have had a real debate on the content of the directive, not just the consignor. Finally, there are a lot of the points in the majority agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right that are very soluble and that it's hard to see how to put into life, among other things. relative to encryption. It surprises me that two heavy serious parties choose to trump through various measures that we don't know the costs of, that we don't know the scope of and where to end, without taking time to counter-conceptions. It will be interesting to see how the Labour Party and the Right will jointly be able to have a majority on these matters in the future and in future budgetary proceedings, because now we do not know what the agreement really involves. It's sad that the majority parties did not give us the opportunity for solid and proper treatment in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1202	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1205	The central party councils in the government took this into account in this case, and the parties who refuse to implement the directive have been included in their comments in the vote. It says, among other things.\t\t You can change the ‘We have a fundamental opposition to the comprehensive storage of information on all citizens and that providers are required to store data which they do not themselves have in their own right in their business.’;» I mentioned in my article the third EU Money Laundering Directive, which obliges banks to monitor the movements of their accounts. How could the representative Schlagsvold Vedum and his party support the implementation of the third WFD? As far as I can see, the description of the Central Party Councils in their respective, very well fits the Whitewashing Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1215	As my good co-representative knows very well, the nature of politics is such that a balance is always to be found as to the strength of the tools to be put in place to combat crime or other important things in a society. We believe that with regard to the Data Storage Directive, the measures we are implementing are so extensive in so many areas that it is not possible to defend it in relation to the intervention it entails in privacy. We believe that in this case the balance has come on the wrong side, that it is difficult to see that we will be able to have such a great effect of monitoring that it is possible to defend it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1220	The representative, Mr. Schlagsvold Vedum, is pleased that the centre party took hers in this matter from the government. From the right-hand side, we hope it happens more frequently in the future. The centre party has now been in government for six years without ever being able to obtain a majority to veto an EU directive. The centre party has always had a fundamental view of the EU, but a very pragmatic view of privacy. You can see that very well from the options that were presented to the Right. You say three to five months of storage, while the Right wants six months of storage. The centre party wants more storage of IP addresses, while we want six months – and the corresponding requirements in relation to extradition. In other words, it's not about principles, it's about how to actually implement this. The right has had an impact on a significant strengthening of privacy. In fact, we claim that, through these negotiations with the Workers' Party on the Data Storage Directive, the Right has gained significantly greater impact on general data protection than the Centre's government has done in six years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1229	Of course, I fundamentally disagree with the premises of the representative, Mr Kambe. With regard to the fact that the Central Party has such a very pragmatic relationship with privacy, I would like to remind the representative of the government of which he himself was part – not the representative Kambe, but the party Right – that is, the government of Borten. The four parties in government then introduced the public law into a liberal tradition. The centre party was the first party to open its national meetings in a liberal tradition. If you look at the Central Party's tradition of liberal questions, we have a long line, and some of the most proud moments were when we put together with the Right in the Government of the Away. So it falls on its own unreasonableness. With regard to this Directive, it was indeed the Right who had the opportunity to stand up for some fundamental values and to be able to create a majority against the Directive, but unfortunately the partyism is used so that the representatives who have a different opinion from the Kambe cannot vote in their opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1238	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1242	Think of the following: You have an iPhone full of applications that continuously and automatically connect to the Internet 24 hours a day, to update on weather, sports, news, e-mail and other services. There are about 300,000 such phones in active use already in the country. If Norway introduces the Data Storage Directive, all these connections will certainly be registered and stored, plus information on where these connections were at the time. In other words, technological developments will lead to the effective monitoring of the data storage directive for at least six months and the retention of the data for at least six months. It's not a pleasant thought. iPhones were poor in Norway in 2006, when the Data Storage Directive was adopted in the EU. In a few years' time, technology alone could have made the Data Storage Directive quite unmanageable and the effects would be untransparent. These considerations are the journalist Frode Bjerkestrand in Bergen's Official Journal, and the Christian People's Party agrees with him in this. The Christian People's Party will stand up to arrangements that rock the freedom of individuals to communicate freely, without being monitored. The Data Storage Directive threatens privacy and freedom of expression. We may take our freedom and our rights for granted, but we must never forget the fundamental rights of every citizen. One of them is just that society shouldn't be monitoring you for no reason. ‘Monitoring’ is a word that has remained in this debate. It is the Data Protection Authority that says that the Data Storage Directive is another step into the surveillance society. The Christian People's Party does not want a development in which privacy is sacrificed on the altar of good intentions. That is why we say no to the directive, and the Christian People's Party is willing to use the veto right in the EEA Agreement if necessary. It has been said very much differently from this speaker today who has just gone about how we should look at the veto right in relation to the EEA Agreement. It is very difficult to say that we have had an over-consumption of the right of veto in relation to the EEA Agreement. It has never been used. This should so definitely be a good opportunity to do it. The very first wording of the Court’s principal programme, adopted in 2008, reads: ‘Right will build society on the trust of the individual.’ A principal program is the very foundation of the party's politics, and the first sentence is a postulate that is founded in the long liberal conservative tradition to which the Right confesses. The current principle of the Data Storage Directive is that all traffic information from all citizens should be pre-stored for a certain period of time. The reason for this is to have completed information available about us citizens in case we were going to do something illegal at some point, so that the information can be used in investigations and legal proceedings. It does not resemble a society based on ‘trust in the individual’. Finally, I would like to say two things about the committee's proceedings. One is that I will give a great commendation to the rapporteur in charge of Mr Schou. Although we have disagreed on the matter, an impressive piece of work has been done by the case rapporteur. I also want to comment on the majority of the committee. There has been an urgent mention and the need to complete the work. But in the absolutely last round – 17 minutes before we had to give up our position – the agreement was therefore based on the agreement. We asked questions. These questions did not make it possible for the department to answer properly. I believe it would have been more respect for this room if we had taken better time, done a thorough job and had been able to get a proper procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1266	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1269	Last Tuesday, TV 2 news had an entry from a press conference on the Data Storage Directive in the hiking hall, right next to us. The representative Hareide was then associated with a number of other faction leaders from the Transport and Communications Committee, and he presented the meeting as the privacy alliance. I'm surprised when Hareide so strongly profiles privacy and at the same time more strongly warns against the budgetary costs of increasing privacy. Therefore, it would be nice if the privacy alliance's front figure could now clarify how he gets this to hang together.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1281	I'm happy for that question. It's not necessarily spending money on privacy we're negative to, but we want to know how much we're talking about. So we got submitted an appointment 17 minutes before we should give up our setting. And then we have the possibility to ask questions to the ministry: how much does this cost? The only answer we get is that it's going to be very expensive. Are we going to handle this in a justifiable way? What is very expensive? That's what we asked ourselves. Then we thought it was quite natural that we had taken more time to get closer to this, to know what was behind the words of the department, to the government. So "very expensive" was not the word we could keep to. We wanted a defence case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1286	During the Committee's hearing, the national lawyer was also present. He explained this and said that there is no doubt about the usefulness of this directive for the police. There are no adequate alternatives, he said – furthermore, there is no significant new element in this change, but that what you have is essentially what you have. The attorney general stressed that fewer crimes would be solved without the storage of traffic data, and that those who constitute an organised criminal group would not be caught either. So my question to the representative is, does it make any sense when the national lawyer says what he says? Or is it that the national lawyer is wrong, when we hear this bastant post from the representative Hareide?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1293	Like Mr. Werp, I listened with interest to the national lawyer when we had a hearing in the committee. I thought the national lawyer was one of the few people who really wanted to see this case from two sides. Although the national lawyer concluded with a yes to the Data Storage Directive, he also addressed the issue of privacy issues here. It is clear that some of the issues that have been raised when it comes to the directive are the benefits. Would you like to capture the big ones in the police's web? Or won't it? I note that there are some people here who are very clear that it is precisely what this directive does not want to do. When this knowledge is on the table, it's just the big ones who want to sneak away, and it's kind of the little criminals who are being taken instead.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1300	The main aim of the data retention directive is to combat serious crime by providing police access to an important tool. The worst crime we can imagine is child abuse — both child pornography and other child abuse. The police in general, and Kripos in particular, are clear that they need access to traffic data to solve issues related to child pornography and other child abuse. In the setting, the Christian People's Party, together with the Progress Party, SV and the Center Party, stands for a proposal to impose a three-week storage of IP addresses, which is largely the case today and is not sufficient. Kripos’ hearing response gives us more examples of cases where offenders have not been taken into custody because the IP addresses have already been deleted. When we talk to the police, we get more examples, including: about a father who is hilarious to his seven-year-old daughter and who could not be taken because the IP address was deleted. How can the Christian People's Party say that the storage of IP addresses for six months – under the conditions set out in the proposal – is a threat to privacy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1309	As the representative Dagfinn Højbrätten has done well for earlier from this pulpit, the Christian People's Party has been willing to participate in the storage of IP addresses. We've been in good dialogue with the Right Party to make a common accord. Unfortunately, we did not succeed in that work. But the representative Bratli just highlights a challenge related to children. As the representative Bratli is well aware, there are two statements in the statement from the Transport Committee. One is from Redd Barna, which points out that the Data Storage Directive is not a good tool. The other is from the children's environment, which points out that one should use other instruments to fight this type of crime. The Christian People's Party and the Privacy Alliance have chosen to listen to the Red Children and to the Children's Environment, because we believe that it will provide a safer society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1316	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1319	Unfortunately, I must initially spend some time refuting some untruths that have emerged in the debate – last from the Halleraker representative from the Right, who from this pulpit claimed that the Progress Party has made proposals to test DNA and record all information on immigrants. This is, with respect, a lie. The second is the representative Haugli of the Workers' Party, who claimed that the Advance Party should test the DNA and record all information on ‘first- and second-generation immigrants’. With respect to reporting, this is a lie. The representative Gustavsen quoted, and that was a very correct quote. But that was when the Labour Party, the Right and the police used the strongest argument in this debate, namely that all traffic data would disappear. Then I said at the time that if it was a consequence, the Progress Party also had to do something to ensure the access that the police have today. It brings me to the representative, Werp, who claims in the reply here that there are no changes, there are no significant changes to what is today's law and practice in implementing the Data Storage Directive. Then I have missed something significant, because if this debate has this temperature and this interest of the police and others, and there are no significant changes to what is today, then I do not understand why the debate has come to where it is. But let me quote from today's business not long ago. So the difference is that now the right hand side and the working part are going to be equal to the right hand side. «require that my telecommunications company, on behalf of the State, systematically record every time I communicate with my children, my spouse, my friends, my business relations, my clients, my doctor, my political convictions and all the others I communicate with by telephone and e-mail. And that the registration will also include where I, my children and all the others involved in the communication were when it happened – so that the accumulated records over time form the basis for a map of all my networks, connections and physical movements.” That's the new thing. And for the Progress Party, it's that the absence of surveillance is well-being. I am pleased that, in a row earlier today, the Minister of Justice recognised that IT professionals are entitled to the Data Protection Directive as a monitoring directive that will be used in the long term in all sorts of other contexts, as we see in some other EU countries that have implemented the Directive, where many other public institutions will also be given transparency. It is also the experience we have in Norway with the type of register. I think there are an incredible number of people here who are building a huge height of fall, including the police, because when the police have gone so high on the track and the Labour Party and the Right have hoped for, they have used the strong argument that now you have to stop terrorist activities and break organized crime. I think I can picture the results in the future when this is not the case. There is simply no evidence that the implementation of the Data Storage Directive reduces crime or terrorist activity. Terror is about to give a completely different picture, where you no longer communicate. Organised crime is taking a completely different direction, with contacts in a completely different way across borders and with different organisations. The Data Storage Directive has expired as regards what was envisaged in 2006. Several have mentioned technology. Let me say, unfortunately, I have two communication tools. None of these were found in 2006. Today, there are one million people in Norway who have that kind of communication. The point is marked by the type of communication tool. And the Right got an offer from the other parties to implement the privacy measures you wanted. They were also offered to join in expanding the storage of IP addresses. The right said no thanks, and unfortunately I do not understand why.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1340	The President would point out that the expression'lie' is an unparliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1343	First, I would like to say that I think this debate is good and informed. I agree with the representative, Schlagsvold Vedum, that it has been interesting to hear different assessments. It's also refreshing from time to time that the coalition lines go a little bit differently. This matter has been thoroughly elucidated. I think it is important to be able to have such a debate, where, as we are in favour of this directive, we are not accused of being against privacy, and those who are against the directive are not accused of being against the fight against crime. We're actually going into the debate because we think it's appropriate to have one or another position for a better society. We should get rid of each other. I believe that this which Stortinget will now vote on today is a good compromise that has found an agreement that unites the two reasons well, and I fully support the majority position. We have heard some interesting claims in the debate. I assume that the Children's Ombudsman and Redd Barna notice Hoksrud's warm embrace, and that they will use it later, when the Progress Party says these are bodies that know more about crime than all the police acts we have in Norway. That's an interesting point of view. With regard to his references to the Stasi, the KGB and other Communist surveillance regimes, I would say that the European Union is the antithesis of those bodies. The EU is a collection of 27 democratic countries that have made this directive, implemented it through numerous rounds of the Council of Ministers and the European Parliament, and it is now being implemented and implemented in the countries. So I mean that parallel just doesn't hold water. Then I would say to the representative Sandberg, with all due respect: the representative says that with this directive the state will know about all his conversations, with children, business relations, etc. The answer to that is no. The state won't know. The police will be able to know if the representative Sandberg is suspected of crimes that have a penalty framework of up to four years, which we hope is not the case. Thus, we can be sure that the kind of conversations, the type of contacts, will not come to others, irrelevant, too much. In the case of references made to other European countries, at least we need to be precise. It is true that the implementation of this Directive has been more complicated than too many other directives have been. But I think it's part of the context that when you refer to Sweden, there's a broad majority in the Riksdagen to implement it. There is a special procedure in the Swedish Parliament which means that a small minority – and that is probably the Swedish Democrats – have been able to block implementation, which will put Sweden in a breach of the Treaty situation in relation to the EU. The same applies also to Germany. So there have been questions about evaluation: Can we not wait until the EU has evaluated this directive? I am absolutely sure that if Norway should have any influence on the further development of this directive, because this is legislation that can be moving, we have more chance of doing so by joining in and at least using the minimum access we have as an EEA member rather than standing all the way outside and having no influence. The Directive has been adopted and will be through an update and evaluation phase. Then I would like to say to the representative Hareide – he had a wise speech and pointed out to the mountain beach, who has written that the data storage directive can become unmanageable in its current form – that yes, it can happen with technological developments. But then it is a common European issue to further develop the legislation in order to take care of the concerns that it is intended to pursue, namely that the police can use this in order to operate effectively for our security in the age of data. A main argument in my view is that it is right for Norway to enter into this directive, which, as I said, has been adopted by 27 of our most related countries in Europe, and which our two EEA partners Iceland and Liechtenstein are in order to introduce, is to avoid a situation where 30 countries in Europe cooperate on combating crime – minus one. This is to avoid a situation in which we are in this area in the criminal community, which is fast to adapt, i.e. Norway is a safer place of residence than other countries – shorter retention periods, poorer police opportunities to investigate. It has impressed me to hear from Kripos etc. that they have had to refuse requests from colleagues in Europe in the investigation of serious crime, because today we do not have the opportunity to do so at the same level as the others. This directive, with the agreement of the Storting House, actually gives us a clean-up and tightening of privacy in a wide range of areas that could provide all of us with the necessary level of security.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1360	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1363	Just a brief comment on the Foreign Minister's comments: I would like to say that it seems relatively naive to say that we will have an impact on the evaluation, when the evaluation is now taking place and will be submitted in mid-April. I guess we don't have much influence in this respect. But that's not what I was going to ask. On the other hand, I should like to ask: if there were to be a majority in favour of postponement of consent in the United Kingdom today, what do the Foreign Minister think this could have for Norway? Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the use of the right of reservation will have consequences for Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1368	I agree that we cannot influence the evaluation in particular until April. But I believe that in a future scenario, by adopting the directive, we will be involved in the process of professionally assessing a follow-up in 2015, 2017, 2019 and 2025 in the coming period. As far as the suspension of consent is concerned, I agree that this matter has been thoroughly evaluated, thoroughly explained, and that there is a thorough recommendation on the basis of which it is based. So I believe that the Storting, which is sovereign when it comes to making its decision, has a good basis for deciding. The right of reservation has also been mentioned in detail. This is a fact contained in the EEA Agreement. I am in favour of it being part of the EEA Agreement. I think the representative Hansen had a very good review of principal aspects around that question. It is also clear from the agreement that countermeasures can be taken. I believe that this is a matter for itself. The most serious thing, as I see it, is that we wanted to have a situation where Norway, as one of 30 countries, stood outside police cooperation, with a weakened opportunity to investigate and solve serious crime across borders. I think that is more serious than the consequences that would be purely legal of the reservation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1377	As we all know, the Data Protection Directive is under evaluation, and the result of that evaluation can be a revision. The broader EU data protection legislation, implemented in Norway by the Data Protection Act, is also applicable in Norway and is under revision. In the case of the Data Storage Directive, the Government Party of the Workers' Party has not been able to seek support from its government partners, SV and the Senterpartiet, but has had to go to Stortinget and seek majority here. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs then ensure that the Stortinget, and in particular the European Parliament's Committee of the Regions, receives the government's input into these evaluation and revision processes at such an early stage that it is possible for the Stortinget to also influence Norwegian positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1382	If I understood the question relating to the evaluation of this type of legislation that we are talking about here, then the answer must be that we must strive to do so, and that the dialogue we have in the European Committee allows us to come so early that we can get the Stortinges view with us in an inclusive way. We have to try to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1387	The Data Storage Directive may exist in the EU. The Foreign Minister may also be aware of this. What I would ask you a little bit about the purely principle – this with the EEA Agreement, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs strongly defends – is: does never the Labour Party ever come to be able to say no to what comes from Brussels? Can you ever see that it is possible? Now we have the postal directive coming, where there seems to be a lot of resistance. Is it such that the Labour Party is immune from saying no to what comes from the EU? That was the one question. So it's like SV is actually a little bit happy with WikiLeaks, because there it has come out that the government in which Støre is Minister of Foreign Affairs is quite dangerous and radical, not least from the American Embassy. Until then: Isn't it that now when we have to store more, there is a danger that leaks will come that don't necessarily SV and the Worker's Party will have?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1394	The working party is not immune to saying no. The working party led a government that negotiated the EEA Agreement with this right of reservation, which is an absolute prerequisite for such an agreement – that it is possible to say no. When we say yes to this directive, it's because we're in favour. When we agreed to the Services Directive, it was because we were in favour. Here we've separated layers, but we have to respect each other for that. That is quite obvious, and I think once again the representative Svein Roald Hansen gave examples of areas where we can get into a situation where we think it is absolutely necessary. I'm going to totally support it. There's no fundamental resistance to it at all-- let me say rather the opposite. So now you don't need any leaks to establish that we have a radical government that conducts a radical policy in many areas, including the outside world. I'm not excited about WikiLeaks, but I think that in terms of the kind of information that the representative of Langeland has, he doesn't need to read American documents to know what the answer is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1403	It happens from time to time that Stortinget is busy handling matters. This could be done, for example, by: is to deal with pension matters which will enter into force on 1 January in December. You can have transport cases where there is a contract to be signed by a given date. In the last period, we had our case, where there was a temporary device that was in danger of running out, and the Storting was assembled in September to deal with this in order for the opposition to have the time it needed. As far as the Data Storage Directive is concerned, the agreement states that it will come into force by 1 April 2012 at the latest, and in order to bring the Police Register Act into place at the same time, we will talk about late harvest at the earliest. The only reason we are dealing with the matter today is to be left with regard to the meeting of the Right National Assembly. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is concerned with an informed debate. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs think that the debate would have been more informed if we had seen the outcome of the EU evaluation before we debated the matter in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1410	I don't want to comment on what timetable the Storting here has used to come to an agreement. If there is one thing that has been extensively debated for a long time, it is this one. We are already far, far in excess of when we should have implemented this directive. I believe again that the discussion on the EU evaluation is taking place on the basis of the fact that that evaluation will change the whole premise of the directive. We don't have any information to provide it. It will be an evaluation of how the directive has worked and will make a number of proposals. The implementation of the evaluation recommendations may be both one and two years ahead, so there is always the possibility in the EU and in the Norwegian context of pointing out something that could have provided more information next month, next year, on a case-by-case basis. That is why I believe that today we have a good basis for adopting a good position, and then we are in greater intervention to participate in that debate, professional and political, which is going to follow this area for many, many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1418	I am pleased that one in the Workers' Party is not immune to using the veto right in the EEA Agreement. I am also sure that the Foreign Minister is aware of what is in the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee, where the Labour Party and the Right suggests that Norwegian EEA-veto only applies to matters where Norway has a special interest. There is an interpretation of the EEA Agreement that the Christian People's Party is not aware of, that there are restrictions on what we can veto in relation to the EEA Agreement. That is why I ask the Foreign Minister to confirm his way of looking at the EEA Agreement. It is the Storting that fully determines which laws to veto, if any, and there is no requirement for Norway to have any special interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1423	Without prejudice to the fact that I have not followed the discussion internally in the Committee between the Right and the Labour Party, I would firstly like to say that the Workers' Party has been very well acquainted with the Christian People's Party in the understanding of the right of reservation since 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995, as a premise for this agreement. If I am going to look at an interpretation, I would assume that the concept of ‘special interest’ is an expression that Norway in a critical area has an interest that differs from the existing directive adopted by other countries, and if that is the case, we must assume that it is Norway against the 27. I think that can be characterised as a special interest. But it should not be understood, as I see it, as we often use the word ‘special interest’ in Norwegian debate, namely that it is a marginal matter, one that is on the outside of the broad road, so to speak. It must be that there is a case of heavy importance to Norway, and where there is reason to believe through a treatment process that what is close to us has been agreed on by 27 countries is not suitable for us. That's why we have to have that right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1428	The cord change is therefore changed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1431	That has been said, and that is why I start by saying that it is of course a matter of course that we are now in favour of the adoption of the data storage directive here today, not because the European Union is asking for it. I say that because it has been said in the general political change of words. We're just doing it because we need it, and because we think it's right to introduce it. The representative Svein Roald Hansen was also involved in the processes around the directives. What we have done here now in a good way is to adapt this directive to the national needs we have. We've done it in such a way that we've managed to balance two completely significant relationships. One is privacy, which very many in this debate have talked about quite correctly and naturally, and to implement the directive in Norwegian legislation in such a way that we get legislation that provides the necessary legal basis for the police to use these traffic data to solve serious crime. I want to highlight one side of this that I think is all possible reason for the Storing to have attention to, and that is that exactly this, this particular good balance, and the fact that we are giving the opportunity to solve crime, is of course an important prerequisite for what I would call a good, democratic society. As many have been involved in the debate in a reflective way, both those who are supporters of it and those who are opposed to it, it is that by definition, in principle, any attack on privacy is linked to a police intervention — that is, if the police are to do something, it is, by definition, an interference on privacy. On the other hand, of course, we have the situation on which our democracy is based, that it is the national assembly of the country that is just going to give the police authority the power to address personal issues in order to precisely solve crimes that are detrimental to society. It is the balance that this discussion is about. Of course, when we give the police such authority, this authority should be strictly regulated, so that we can precisely safeguard the privacy and privacy. That is why in this agreement that we invite the Storting to adopt later today, we say that we should just collect and process these data when necessary, and that they are not used for purposes other than those for which they have been collected. We must also be aware that this has been done since the mid-1990s, that this type of investigation has been used since the mid-1990s. I have not heard that someone in principle has protested against it and said that this police method should not be used. I have not heard anyone in this room or elsewhere who has said it. So there is no new principle in the way that the Storting is invited to adopt today. On the contrary, traffic data have proved to be of great importance for the fight against crime, which many have already experienced. It is that we should facilitate and regulate this, which is our aim of the agreement we now have with the Right, and which we invite the Stortinget to adopt. It should be unnecessary to say it, but I feel the need to say it, because it has been made up of many people – not in this room and not in this debate, but in the long change of words – that this is an attempt to address the content of communication. It should be unnecessary to say that, but I want to say that, of course, it's not right. It's not about that, and any attempt to give the impression of it is to lead the debate on wild roads and mislead the population, if you claim it. So it's saying, as many people have been about, that we've had a big hearing, and many have spoken out. The opinions go in different directions. That's right. But the whole apparatus that is involved in the investigation of crime is completely unambiguous. They say that the storage of traffic data is an important prerequisite for managing the new technological developments. Of course, what the Greatness has to do is – now as always – what the Minister of Justice said in a very good way, that is to stress the importance of keeping up with legal developments in society. It has been done by all the legislative authorities in democratic societies throughout history. This is nothing but that. So the community is already like that on the point that it's through digitized. Just look at our own business here in the house and anywhere else, and then we shouldn't have legislation that is as up-to-date as possible in relation to the challenges that crime now represents in that area! I don't understand. I don't understand. I would also like to say that when it is said in the extension of it that this is a kind of monitoring, which is in a way at least at the forefront of some of the criticisms of the opposition parties, especially of the Progress Party, I would say, less from the others, but especially from the Progress Party – it is highlighted with a heavy and high voice from this speaker, I do not understand that it can be said – all the legal regulations and barriers that can be thought of are put in place, just so that it should not be monitoring. It is not that the police have access to their traffic data without further delay. No, it has to go to court under strict rules, and it has to be a minimum of four years' punishment, so it has to be a very serious crime. So serious parties allow themselves to call it monitoring. I mean that -- to have said that, I hope it's not against your list, President -- it's not serious, because it's just not. It's not serious. The representative Hoksrud was challenged several times to say why they stand out from all the assessments made by the prosecution and the police. He refers to money, all of a sudden. That calls for the political smile, I would say – the political smile, I would say. So I'm going to add that we don't hear any fundamental objections to the use of this, but it's said that it's monitoring and can't be followed in technological development. That is what the Progress Party has been saying here and in this debate. Then we know that. We know where they are, and we'll take it into account the way we can, but of course, it's not a valid argument. Finally, I would like to say that what we have seen through this debate, which is an essential aspect of it, which is underlined, but which I would also like to stress, is that the opposition parties in this matter do not have an alternative. Reference is made to the fact that a major initiative has been taken. What we can only see is that it is at least not reflected in the setting. What is the opposition parties' proposal, to put it like that, which is not a proposal, is simply that it should be the way it is. We who represent the majority in this Chamber in this context should not ask us the question, but they should ask themselves the question, namely, is there a security of privacy and legal certainty that it is as it is? No, of course not. That is the absolutely worst solution. For that reason, too, it is with good security and political tranquillity that I strongly recommend the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1452	New technology gives many of us great joy in everyday life, but it also creates major new challenges, including: Because it creates new crime arenas, it creates other and more modern challenges for the police, to investigate crime, and the large amount of data and communication creates privacy challenges when we collect it. I want to say that there is one thing that pleases me more than anything else in the room today, and that is that we have got someone who now calls himself the privacy alliance. We have been looking for alliance partners for years in this room to improve privacy in many areas. I am pleased if it is that privacy is now an important key in dealing with many other issues, because then we may have more alliance partners to play on in the future. Our starting point in this case has been the attempt to weigh the need to provide the police with the means to investigate serious crime, to stop offenders from being researched and found, and to allow victims to experience that their cases are being dealt with, against the fact that when you collect as much data as you can, it challenges a lot of the data protection issue that is being reviewed by all the different types of directives. Therefore, the right has not initially agreed to the Data Storage Directive as proposed by the EU. Our starting point was to discuss what balance we need between privacy policy and what we allow to store, to see if we could find a solution to those two questions. We believe that we have found that. Therefore, we could go and talk to the five who today say no to this, and say that we were willing to negotiate the data storage directive with them if we did not find a solution with the Workers' Party that was satisfactory to us. It is not that we broke the negotiations. No, it was actually that we were told that we could not negotiate two ways. We respected it and kept it open that we could come back if we could not find this balance with the Labour Party in the negotiations we had. That is why it is not the starting point of the Right that we are going to reach the directive to the EU. The starting point is to be sure that we have a good enough framework around the processing of these data so that we can allow them to be stored. There are some important challenges. We know, for example. that snooping is a problem – snooping in the form that in almost all registers we have had and have, it is the unauthorised employee who looks for and finds information. It happens every year that people are recited to the health care system because they have been snooping in information. Therefore, it has been important for us to make a safe and good frame around this. We believe that with the technical things we have done, related to how the storage should be, and by providing the Data Protection Authority with encryption, we have ensured that it is not possible to snoop. In addition, we have experienced the realization of an important principle that we have not been able to implement before when we have processed the individual registers here in Stortinget, namely the principle that in terms of privacy we should have the obligation to log who is inside the register, and we should have the right to access the log of our own data. It's a big breakthrough for us, because we've tried to get it into the health records and got no from today's government – all the parties, including those in the privacy alliance, have said no to this. So now we're going to have a system for both Nav and the health records, which allows you to be the most important controller of how your data is processed. It's a matter we've been fighting for too long, and we feel we're getting through for now. That is why we believe that we have improved privacy through the solutions we have here. So I think it's relevant to say that anti-crime is also privacy. It's not just me saying it. That is the consequence of the only judgment of the European Court of Human Rights on this matter, namely that of the one against Finland. It's a boy's right to get out stored information that concerns his privacy, and to know who's behind it. In fact, there are many who claim that privacy is just to take care of the information that is there and not to store it, but it is also the individual's right to be able to ensure that people are convicted and removed, which is part of this – and that's an important part of what we can do now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1469	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1472	‘Extensive scope of old and new forms of registration may represent a threat to privacy and freedom of expression’, says the Right in its principal programme, which is fully supported by the Progress Party. That's why I don't understand why the Right couldn't wait. I would like to hear the representative of Solberg explain to us: why this urgency, when the Right too knows that an evaluation is being carried out, and in particular because an evaluation might change the directive? Perhaps the penal framework will be reduced? What do we know? So the representative Solberg can explain to me: why this haste?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1477	The right principle program is very good. More people should read it. I was also the head of the committee that made it, so I know it quite well. We have just protected privacy through the proposals we have made in cooperation with the Workers' Party, because we have secured these data much better. We've made it less transparent, and we've made sure that there's a court order for the police to look at it. That is why I believe that we have fulfilled our principal programme and the discussions we had ahead of that principal programme, by addressing the serious data protection challenges associated with this. Our starting point has been what kind of national legislation we think we need – not the EU Data Storage Directive. So we've ended up with the sum of demands we made to enter into negotiations – either with the five who are not now in favour of it, or with the Workers' Party. In fact, it is also independent of the EU evaluation. We have now opened up the possibility of changing things after the EU’s evaluation and revision has been completed, but it takes time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1486	There's not any copyright on reversion, but since George Orwell has been mentioned here before today: Let's try to delimit the amount of euthanasia, I suggest. SV can call itself an oil party because we're particularly concerned about oil policy. One might say that privacy is the same thing as fighting crime because it protects people from crime. The next one might be that fire protection is privacy because it protects people from fire, etc. I think maybe the Right would stand by saying that they gave priority to this consideration. One has been looking for that privacy alliance for a very long time, and when he's finally here, they won't be there. Then it can't operate so incredibly high in the body, at least. My question to Erna Solberg is quite simple: One might think that a seeker for more knowledge and used the chance to make party democracy work for the Right side, with a rather short postponement. It could have taken care of both. What is the Right Fear of Postponing the Decision Today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1493	Right doesn't fear anything at a postponement, but the right has taken a stand. The right was the only party that did not have a position until the matter came to Stortinget. Right was the only party that hadn't decided before we saw what the government proposed. The right is the only party that has systematically worked on how we can ensure that privacy improves with the proposal that comes and that has systematically gone through what we need of national law to ensure it. So the right-hand side has drawn a conclusion. We are the only party that hadn't reached a conclusion before any implementation proposals from the government were on the table. That's what all the other parties have done here. We have done the process that I think more people should have done, and so we were ready to make a decision on this, a decision that I believe places great emphasis on privacy and crime prevention. So it's not just me who believes that fighting crime also has a privacy page, for example. to be able to access, to be able to rehabilitate and destroy data relating to one or to provide victims with protection and conviction of offenders.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1498	I'm probably fascinated, along with Solhjell, by the orwellish novelty. Not since Orwell wrote the book, you've probably experienced such a novelty, where suddenly saving personal data to people becomes privacy. I'm completely sincere -- from the heart of my heart -- I'm sorry that the Right goes away from the classic, liberal position and the bourgeois position in which to protect the individual, and that there's actually a point in itself. But instead, the Right chooses to go into the surveillance alliance together with party secretaries from the Workers' Party – and they have a good tradition of having a good idea of what they're talking about in this field. They also showed that from the pulpit today. But my question is, once an agreement has been reached with the Workers' Party, how many breaches of that agreement – that things are not technically feasible, that things are not economically feasible, and that things are not possible to progress on – are going to make it possible for the Right to back up and turn?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1504	I believe that those who are really trying to scare people are the ones who are constantly trying to call passive storage of data to be processed in court, like surveillance, like GDR states or other things. It's not that. These are data that will not be available to anyone else until a criminal act has taken place, which means that a court will have to open up. That is why I believe that we have achieved a good framework, which is needed to ensure this for privacy reasons. So I know that we and the Left disagree on some things, for example. that the achievements we have now received are principles that the Left voted against in this Chamber earlier. The duty of logging and the right of access to the log is a privacy requirement that the left has never been behind. I always think that's been sad, because I think that each of us is the best guarantor to make sure that no one snoops in our data. Left didn't want to give.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1509	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1512	Before I start what I was really going to say, I have a couple of little recordings. What is gratifying about this debate today is that we are getting a strong focus on privacy in Norway. What is also gratifying is that we get focus on fighting crime. However, the background to this issue is an EU directive – and it is a deplorable background and a poor basis for discussing both privacy and crime prevention. I think it might be useful to remember that the purpose of the EU directive has changed – in fact – twice along the way. Those changes have received little focus in the debate, I feel. One is that action was taken to combat international terrorism. So it went to the fight against crime, and in the fight against crime, it has actually changed from ‘necessary’ to ‘useful’ — foreign from ‘necessary’ to ‘useful’. It is of great importance, not least to those who, following a deplorable decision here later today, wish to pursue this matter to the European Court of Human Rights. Then I would like to refer very briefly from a chronicle in the evening post last Thursday, April 8th – the date was not random – under the theme: freedom – our new scarceness. The chronicle is written by Georg Apenes, who has been doing both computer surveillance and has also been present in this room for many years. I allow myself to quote cards from the end, in the last paragraph: ‘In our Norwegian Community model, privacy needs to continue to be based on the individual’s right of governance and information about itself. It follows from the self-understanding of authorized persons that they wish to be regarded as just that, as authoritative, responsible and trustworthy. This must assume that they are granted the right to have something for themselves, have secrets, be unobserved, and respected for their choices and their preferences in the private sphere they want to mold themselves and their own." One of the important principles in this case is the presumption of innocence. We're going from investigating crime where there's a suspicion, to recording data and movements on communications among the entire nation's population. It is – to the representative of Kolberg – a quite significant and dramatic change. That is why, as we see it, the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right on the introduction of the Data Storage Directive leads us a step towards the police state. It is not surprising that the Workers' Party wants more state control and control, but it is both surprising and disappointing that the Right allows privacy to be sold. Right chooses to be a rescue party to the Workers' Party's yes to the Data Storage Directive. The lot Right hand turns out to be a champion of increased bureaucracy. Right-wing conciliation with the Workers' Party requires the establishment of an additional bureaucracy and procedures in areas where one would think that the Right as a party would be very sceptical. Of course, significant parts of the Right are, even if they are likely to vote in favour of this directive later today. Because the right just sells privacy on sale, the agreement is wrapped in political novelty. The Data Storage Directive weakens privacy. The right-wing leader says that the agreement strengthens privacy and that the agreement ensures privacy in a better way than today. The best contribution would be to make sure that more data about us all aren't stored. However, with the agreement, the data storage framework of the Data Storage Directive is being adopted. The storage time has been reduced by the agreement, but the storage of a huge amount of data on all residents of the country will be done. The Data Storage Directive continues to weaken privacy. The Progress Party, like the Data Protection Authority, says that the collection of ‘as many data on people in Norway’ — a quote from the leader of the Right — involves monitoring Norway’s population. There has been a lot of talk about participating in this matter. But it is not the partisan which leads to the adoption of the Data Storage Directive. It is the political whip of the European Union that ensures that the EU-faith parties, the Labour Party and the Right, rush through the Data Storage Directive. Last week we read that Norway is the second most obedient EU country, Norway has introduced 1 774 out of 1 777 EU directives. A lot can be said about this in isolation, but in this context it is important to point out that such an important directive as the Data Storage Directive is not something to be knocked through. On pensions and on climate, broad settlements have been concluded in Stortinget. Privacy is much more important, but here the Workers' Party and the Right are pushing through an introduction that all the other parties in the Stortinget are opposed. It gives me the opportunity to thank both the SV, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left for a good and constructive cooperation in the work on the Data Storage Directive. There are two things that show that political cooperation does not know partideological boundaries in matters where one actually finds that one stands together, and it also shows that political work against the Data Storage Directive goes through the whole political scale. This matter is not urgent at all. The EU itself has not implemented the Directive in all countries or in the same way in the countries that have introduced it. The EU itself recognises the need to change this. The EU has also announced a revision of the EU data protection law and that work is under way, and it is said that efforts are being made to strengthen privacy. Our Privacy Commission, that is to say the Norwegian, gave its position on privacy in Norway early in 2009. In fact, the Commission gave its own opinion on the Data Storage Directive in its setting. It has the privacy alliance included in the settings. I hope there are a lot of people who want to turn to it and see what it says. I mention a few quotations: «We believe that the Data Storage Directive puts both privacy and freedom of expression to the test.» And quote again: ‘In the Commission’s view, the introduction of the Directive could weaken the experience of private life and private communication.’ Other than me have pointed to the urgency of the committee. What is special about this matter – at least I have not experienced it in the time I have been here – is that we get so clear a message from the department that the consequences cannot be explained in detail, but that they become comprehensive in terms of costs and actually very challenging to implement. I am excited if the specialist council can clarify it a little more in its article. There was no time for the Committee to find out what the clear opinions actually entail, including in a cost-effective way. I assume that it is not such that the costs are of little interest to the two contracting parties, because they do not intend to follow up that part of the contract. That would really be the basis for saying that privacy is cheap. Norway does not need the EU Data Storage Directive. Norway does not need more monitoring of its citizens. Norway needs to strengthen data protection. Norway needs more effective response to terrorism and organised crime. It can and should be done without the Data Storage Directive. The Labour Party and the Right fail in this important national case of data protection in Norway when they choose to let the EU govern.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1564	The message is crystal clear from the police, the prosecution and the police security service. They state unequivocally that if the proposal in this case is not adopted, they will resolve and detect fewer serious crimes than at present. This in itself is very thoughtful, and it underscores both the seriousness of the matter and the consequences of the choice we are going to make. The right does not question the police's message about the high value-added. At the same time, of course, this must be weighed against the contradictions that the matter raises. This is the main concern of privacy. These are cross-cutting considerations, and I'm proud to represent a party that has really spent time going deep in this very question. For the Right, our position is not based on the appropriateness or one-sided acceptance of police arguments. It is based on a thorough balance between many and conflicting interests, where privacy considerations have also weighed very heavily. The European Court of Human Rights takes the K.U. in relation to Finland in 2008, they have an obligation to provide mechanisms for identifying and punishing persons who violate the lives, health and right of privacy of others. This decision was taken by reference to Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights, which deals with the right to privacy. Fighting crime is therefore also part of privacy in this perspective. Technology gives us many opportunities and advantages, while also opening up new arenas for serious crime. Right will not establish unexplored spaces, while the tools and power of criminals are increasing in the same space. Without a balanced legal regulation, such a lawless vacuum will be established. Four different public investigations have also pointed this out in the last ten years, and have demonstrated that the legislation has until now been unclear, unyielding and unevenly practiced by various eco-providers. The police often experience that traffic data have been erased when they contact the providers. Unfortunately, it does not help with never so good investigators or many thousands of policemen. Once electronic evidence has been deleted from the suppliers, they are gone forever. Several articles have affected the fact that a few weeks ago there was a coordinated police action in a number of countries, where people who had spread child abuse pictures on the Internet were arrested. Children were rescued from assault. In Norway, no one was arrested. Unfortunately, there are several such examples. This example also shows the international dimension of police work. Organised crime is increasing in scope, it is being better organised, borderlined, both geographically and technologically, and it is becoming more cynical. In order for the police in Norway and abroad to meet this, the tools need to be adapted to the reality. So it's claimed that it's easy for criminals to bypass and avoid traffic data being used against them. Then it must be thoughtful for those representatives who base much of their argument on that very argument, that the police have thorough evidence for a long, wide range of issues up to now where traffic data has been crucial for the clarification. A very central question is whether alternative tools exist to combat crime by the police. Here I agree with the national lawyer, who is very clear that there are no alternatives. On the contrary, the national lawyer points out that if we do not regulate the storage and access of traffic data at the next crossroads, more interventional police methods will quickly be required. This does not come as a demand from the police, the state attorney believes, but from society, politicians or the media, who feel that the insecurity and lawlessness need. Unfortunately, this case shows how sadly accurate the national lawyer's analysis is. We just need to read the proposals of the Advance Party on increased police surveillance and their previous proposals on DNA testing in a large number of foreign affairs to understand what the national lawyer is thinking about. Police have been using traffic data in the fight against serious crime for over 15 years. The agreement between the Right Party and the Working Party ensures that these data are made available in a balanced manner also for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1594	I want to start by saying like several others: this has been a useful and informative debate, a good performance of different views. I still mean after this debate so far that there is reason to ask, like the Data Protection Agency: how far are we really willing to go in the surveillance of each of us? No effect detected, on the contrary, very controversial. The Data Storage Directive is perceived by many as infringing the individual's privacy. The use is disproportionate to neither the amount of what is to be saved nor the load it may become for the individual. Why is the introduction of the Data Storage Directive a weakening of privacy? The answer is as simple as storing more data from several actors and comparing it for a longer time with today. This can not be called a privacy enhancement. The directive represents a sharp increase in the registration of our communications. A banal example is that if we had asked a person to make a statement outside the green mailbox, not to open the mail, but to register which letter came, and also possibly which one was sent, it would be perceived as an infringement of privacy, not as a reinforcement. In this setting, it is claimed from the majority that today's providers store without a legal home. I have to comment on that. The Data Protection Authority has detected some offences. Most providers are used to managing personal data. They do their utmost to comply with the laws. The echo industry cannot be produced as notorious lawbreakers that store data without a home. The reasoning that because the providers are lawbreakers, the police have access to data today, and if a tightening of supervision, the police will get less data; therefore, we need to introduce the directive, in my view, is totally unacceptable. Such a premise to introduce the directive would be completely wrong. The storage champions have always argued that there will be less data in the future and that a result will have to implement this directive. It's a statement I want to refute. The trend is that providers of services and new types of subscriptions lead to the need for providers to measure and control traffic volumes. There will be more data in the future, not less. There is no indication today that the need for providers to store information about their use of electronic communications by end-users will be lifted. Then, of course, the police's access to traffic data was an important issue in today's debate for both opponents and followers. Let me say that I believe that the police will have access and will have access to data in future without the directive. I like to get serious criminal cases solved. I also see that the police should have had access to some data that is not so person-sensitive, for example. IP address, which they often don't get today because they've been deleted so early. You must be able to see how to handle this without introducing the directive. What is the big dilemma of the Data Storage Directive is that it is a package solution. One cannot make a good enough assessment of what is needed and what data is less necessary for the police. An alternative to the Data Storage Directive is absolutely necessary. It's not primarily for the police, but for the sake of society. It must then involve a national law where the police can access, such as today, where we maintain the obligation to delete, where we see closer to this with IP addresses, which are therefore a little person-sensitive, but necessary for the police. There's also a statement from the Data Protection Authority that they're on a change. And today's access rules have to be tightened up anyway. What's in the legal setting, whether a court decision, i.e. an intensification in relation to today's situation, is good. Then both "Scry" sacs, "Orderud sacs" and "Nokas sacs" are here referred to as examples of clarifications, and as an example in a future where the police do not have the necessary access to data. So I mean, the police are still going to have to. Then costs have been a theme, not because costs are important here. The importance of the Directive is privacy. But let's be clear that the Norwegian people are far ahead when it comes to using new technologies and innovative services. We have a great variety of providers and services. We have a good offer at good prices. If one is to introduce the Directive, one should have considered the consequences it would have for those operators who actually have to carry out storage – the costs it would incur for the providers. The analysis company Teleplan has calculated the cost of introducing the Directive between 200 and 260 million. Norwegian kroner over a five-year period, and that is without encryption requirements. Who is going to pay these extra costs? When it comes to the status of the EU and its evaluation, Sweden, Germany and Romania have not implemented the Directive. The last news is then the Czech Republic, which more people have been in. The Czech Constitutional Court endorsed the directive. It is therefore clearly a directive that is also controversial in the EU. The European Commission is carrying out an evaluation of the Directive. This one's been waiting. The delay is caused by the Commission having to collect data from Member States which show that the Directive is useful. They can't document this. They had set a date, September 15. Then we've listened to several other dates. The last one is, says rumor, April 18. However, the premise of the EU Commission on this evaluation is that the importance of privacy needs to be better balanced, that one should look more closely at the purpose and who should have access to it, that one should look at what data is needed, and consider concrete alternatives to data storage. Harmonisation of storage times is necessary. The Commission also has a notice of revision of the Directive. Both the expected evaluation and the warning audit indicate that one should wait to introduce this Directive into Norwegian law. The multiple configurations in the configuration have now proposed an evaluation to be submitted to the Size slider. One might think that the impact of the directive, i.e. whether the directive is a tool in the fight against crime, was an element of this evaluation. But it's not from the plurality of this room, although it's a specific topic in the EU. When countries such as Germany postpone the implementation of the directive, I think there is reason to think about it. Norway does not need to introduce a directive like this as long as other major and important EU Member States refuse. I have to say in the end: there have been several times that asking for insight into what is stored about each of us is something new today. That's what they say from the Right. In fact, individual individuals can ask their provider for transparency — make an agreement — in what kind of data is stored. There is nothing new in this appointment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1626	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1629	As the Council of State was about, costs have become a topic. The minority also mentions a number of restrictions on storage and access to traffic data, including: the introduction of strict rules on data encryption. I have noticed that, despite the fact that the legislative proposal takes account of different storage solutions with different levels of security, and that a separate cost model is to be developed for the calculation of the distribution between the eco-providers and the judicial authorities, the Minister for Transport writes in his letter to the Transport Committee dated 29 March: ‘If stricter safety requirements are introduced, the State should cover the cost thereof.’ That is why my question becomes to the Minister for Transport: What does the Minister think the minority's proposal will cost in view of the fact that the State will cover the costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1641	I must be allowed to say that I answered 12 questions in record time, they were submitted on Monday afternoon/evening, and, as was said here, I sent them to Stortinget the next morning. It is quite clear that anyone who finally covers the costs and the extent to which they will be covered must be the subject of a discussion of his own. It is my personal view that when a charge is imposed on the providers, perhaps to some extent, substantial costs – so there are 236 providers, here are many small ones, here are some large ones, and here there are large numbers – with the aim that the police should have access to these data, it is unthinkable that there are small and large providers to bear these costs. Here it is so far different practices to refer to in different countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1648	It wouldn't have been completely unreasonable if the Council of State had calculated what the Council of State's own party had presented as the first proposal, but now let it be. The Council of State has been concerned that we should have national legislation in this area. To say it a little unparliamentary: I haven't seen that spin off. I know that the Council of State has been concerned with both privacy and instruments in the fight against crime, and I can absolutely recommend a common package. I see that the Council of State has either not wanted or has not wanted to obtain that package in its own government, but sees that the package is now ready in Stortinget. Then it remains for me to reflect on the fact that what remains of the Council of States is the resistance to the EU and a directive from there. Once again, I allow myself to ask the Council of State where this national alternative to national legislation was.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1657	It would probably be very special if I started an arrangement in the Ministry of Transport about an alternative when the majority of the government had sent a proposal over to the Storting with a recommendation on how to handle this matter. So I've nevertheless dared to make some points about how I think such a national settlement could look, a national law. It also has what is today a minority, after what I understand, conducted conversations with just the Right about. First of all, it would mean that the police will have access as they have today, second, that they will also have access to IP addresses that are being deleted quickly today, and thirdly, that the deletion obligation will be postponed. The three elements in themselves would mean that the police are still, as today, able to follow up on different issues. I just have to say that in the rounds I have been in, in the meetings I have been in, it has not been our directive that has been the police's favorite number. 1st@item: inlistbox It has been a law that ensures that they have access to different data.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1669	At the time of the launch of national legislation, the government had not presented its view, so it was a full opportunity for the Council of State to make what was the national directive visible. But I'm following up on another area. A number of patient organisations, the Data Protection Authority and the Medical Association have criticised the government for adopting changes to the laws that seriously violate privacy and health care obligations. The centre batch claims to be against the Data Storage Directive for privacy reasons and will therefore not provide police with access to traffic data. What is the reason why the Center Party will not store information about who you have called when, while it is okay to store and disseminate information about your mental and other health information? The Council of State has also been the Council of State in this area in the past, so I attend to a justification.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1678	Let me underline once again that I think it is important to clarify crime to give the police access to data, even beyond what they get today, with deferred deletion obligations and with access to IP addresses. Then I thought that precisely when it comes to health records and different patient organisations and their interests, I told you how careful a person should be in relation to storing sensitive personal data. Here, there is an extensive communication based on the storage of information about one of us locally and centrally, not least in health care. Let them be a reminder that we're thinking very carefully before we introduce something we don't know the consequences of.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1685	I'll follow up where the representative Injerd Schou left off. This national option that the Central Party has called for, we haven't seen anything yet. The only thing the so-called privacy alliance presents here today is a no, a reason and a postponement proposal. It is interesting that the Council of State in its statement admits that longer storage of IP addresses is needed. So it's not the principle of legal storage that's the problem. I understand that the Council of State cannot, on its own initiative, promote an alternative proposal. But I want to ask her, what does she think about no one else doing that either – that the privacy alliance does not promote an alternative proposal? As the responsible State Council, can she briefly outline how a national alternative would differ in principle from the legislative proposal we are going to vote on later today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1692	Firstly, I understand very well the minority that today argues for a postponement – with the rushing that this matter received in the final phase, and not least in view of the fact that the evaluation of the EU's own directive has been postponed several times. There is, of course, the very basis for a national law in this field, rather than saying yes to a directive that we do not know the consequences of. We know it's discussed in several areas. We know that a country that Germany did not see the benefit of having the directive and has taken it out again. A national law in this area, where we know where the boundaries go, is quite different from saying yes to a directive where the evaluation did not lead. It has to be revised.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1697	I represent a party that is happy in competition, and thought that the Right, as a party to the Agreement with the Workers' Party, was also happy in competition. I record in the letter of reply from the Council of State that one is concerned about the competitive situation of some of the companies. There are now more than 200 companies providing these services. Can the Council of State say anything about the potential consequences of this, and whether this will mean that customers and people will most of the time be offered a lower level of telecommunications with the implementation of the Data Storage Directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1702	What characterizes the situation in Norway is that we have many small and many large providers – we actually have 236 in total. There's a lot we don't know at this point in time. We know, for example. not how much encryption should be generated here. It has also been very difficult to say anything about the costs. We've asked Telenor. We know that they alone calculate that the stockpiles that are currently proposed can amount to 100 million. kr extra for them. We know that with extensive encryption, it could be several hundred million dollars in addition, but we don't know the limits there. And then we see that this can have a big impact on small and large providers, and actually on competition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1707	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1710	For those of us who are concerned with both the fight against crime and privacy, it is good that we now have a majority on the Stortinget which ensures the implementation of the Data Storage Directive. For, as many have already been involved, a yes to the Data Storage Directive is not a choice between combating crime and privacy – that is, thank you both. The Data Storage Directive is about providing the police with the tools and methods they need to prevent and solve serious crime such as violence, rape and assault. This is crime that intervenes in the lives of individuals, which often brings great consequences to the victims. It is also about creating a framework for the transparency of stored data and for the use of these data. The implementation of the directive in Norwegian law is a regulation of access to the data that we know that telecommunications providers are already storing. It is a step forward for privacy, not a step backwards, as some have claimed. The Data Storage Directive responds to the evolution of crime in terms of change. This must be combated by modern technology, a technology that also presents new challenges, both in terms of police access to evidence and in terms of individual privacy. The criticism of the Data Storage Directive has been that the Directive weakens the rights of individuals. This I believe is to reverse the problem on my head. Because without data storage, the individual individual in some cases will be deprived of the opportunity to have his or her case resolved, because the police will not have access to critical information. This is a problem I want to challenge the opponents of the directive: what about the victims of serious crime? We are all aware of examples of a lack of data storage that has led to a breach not being resolved. I'll mention a famous example from March this year. Europol then revealed a child pornography network that identified 34 Norwegian IP addresses, i.e. Internet addresses, to 34 computers in Norway. As Kripos wanted to have access to the addresses, it turned out that they had already been deleted from Norwegian network providers because they are not allowed to store the addresses for more than three weeks. With knowledge of these addresses, the Norwegian police could have captured the physical address where there are people involved in the spread of child pornography and in the pedophile network. With the Data Storage Directive in place, the storage time for IP addresses would have been slightly longer, and these could have been revealed, and future abuses would have been prevented. The Party has stated that it is committed to finding a solution other than the EU Data Storage Directive. I will quote Hoksrud from the Nations on June 18th in 2010: ‘We want a solution that will ensure that the police do their job. But we don't want to give the police carte blanche." To the Hoksrud and the Advance Party, I would like to say the following: that's exactly what we're doing now. Our solution ensures that the police have done their job, while at the same time demanding when the police will have access to the data. We don't in any way give the police a blank authorization to extract stored data. On the other hand, we say that privacy is so important that in order for the police to have access to the data, there should be serious crime, and it is the court that has to decide whether the police will be given access to the specific case. These are limitations which mean that there is no reason to fear a so-called monitoring society, some of which are concerned about. When the Progress Party itself proposed data storage as early as 2005, it was without these criteria and restrictions that safeguard privacy. The Labour Party is committed to taking responsibility for ensuring police and prosecution authorities the tools they need to combat and investigate serious crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1730	I count myself a liberal person and am not a follower of any Tut-and-run justice policy. I was among those who, in 2009, applauded Minister of Justice Knut Storberget’s stop in so-called ‘preventive space and telephone interception’, the rules introduced by the Bondevik Government in 2005, which the Methodological Control Committee has later considered to be unconstitutional. Fighting crime is important, yes well, but privacy, the right to privacy, is a fundamental right. The effectiveness of an investigation method to combat crime is not enough. What society wants to achieve — the benefits — must be balanced against the intervention of those affected. All use and retention of personal information is interference with privacy. However, in a number of areas of society, we accept that personal information about us is kept and used because it serves other important purposes. The central thing is that the interference with privacy is not disproportionate to what you would otherwise like to achieve. There must be proportionality between intervention and purpose. The question is, if the storage of traffic data for six months contributes to the resolution and prosecution of serious crime, is this a proportionate intervention? My answer is yes. Many have been involved in the debate on the Data Storage Directive. That's good, because it contributes to increased awareness of privacy. Overall, there has been a good debate. Unfortunately, some have chosen a form that is primarily suitable for creating fear. The former Director of Data Protection Georg Apenes set the standard when he pulled in the GDR secret police station Stasi. In several readings, representatives of the Left and the Advance Party have used words as ‘police’. Today, the representative Trine Skei Grande has referred to the bulk of the population as ‘wicked’. Others have claimed that the rule of law and democracy are at stake. Of course it's not like that! The 20 EU countries that have implemented the Data Storage Directive, such as our neighbouring countries Denmark and Finland, have neither said goodbye to democracy nor the rule of law. Those who suggest something else are trying to scare us into believing that this is a fight between the rule of law and the police state, between democracy and dictatorship, between black and white. This rhetoric creates a climate of debate that no one really deserves. In addition, such opinions help both to legitimise the mistrust of the authorities and the police and to suspect that – data storage directive or not – privacy and crime prevention must be balanced against each other. The representative Sandberg used part of his statement to accuse the undersigned and other representatives of the lie. The background is that the Progress Party has called for the DNA testing of immigrants as an action against coercion and terrorism. In my reply earlier today, I was injured to say that the measure would include first- and second-generation immigrants, as I understood the proposal. If forced marriage is to be prevented, it will not be possible to test one of two parties. I now understand at Sandberg that this is not the way the Progress Party has planned this arrangement. I would therefore like to make it clear that I now understand that it is only the very first generation of immigrants Progress will test the DNA. It is equally fully a serious interference in privacy and a gruesome expression of a ‘us and them’ tanker. But the right one should be right. Norway’s main drug issue was clarified because, unlike Norway, the Netherlands had data storage rules. The Data Protection Authority’s own study concludes that traffic data are crucial in criminal matters. The same conclusion was reached recently by EU Commissioner Cecilia Malmström, the Swedish People's Party, on the basis of figures from 20 EU countries. Preventing and making it possible to prosecute terrorism, identity theft or exploitation of children on the Internet is not just about combating crime. It's also about privacy. Recently, the police received tips about a father who operated as a hallik for his seven-year-old daughter on the Internet. The father informed me that he himself misused the daughter, attached three pictures of her and provided an e-mail address. When the police got the tip, the man's IP address was deleted from the Internet service provider, in line with today's storage rules. The matter has not been resolved. On Wednesday 16 March, Europol announced that they had rolled up the world’s largest pedophile network. An estimated 230 abused children have been identified in 30 different countries. As Kripos wanted access to the Norwegian IP addresses that had been used, the data had been deleted. Such stories make impressions, and they place the minority’s comments in a strange light in which they go against the Data Storage Directive of ‘respect for children’. The minority refers to the opinions of the Children's Ombudsman and Red Barna. But Redd Barna's letter of hearing says: ‘Save Children considers that the State’s obligation to protect children from abuse is far-reaching and can in some cases be overlooked in the interests of privacy.’ Fear The Children ‘explains assessments of alternatives to the Data Storage Directive’. They go on to say, ‘This must be done before Redd Barna finally takes a decision on the implementation of the Directive in Norway.’ The Children’s Ombudsman concludes that they do not find any basis for deciding on the Data Storage Directive. Without having concluded, therefore, the child-care consultancies are calling for alternatives to the Data Storage Directive. The Progress Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party give them no help. They don't provide an alternative. With all due respect – that’s not how this case came about. Some crimes are committed online, for example: the exchange of images of abuses of children. It is not new that traffic data are used in the investigation of such and other crimes. It's happening today. The revolutionary new thing would be if the Storting made the network an “exploratory zone” and declared that no matter how serious the acts may be, the right to have its data erased should go ahead of society’s need to investigate and punish. It's a mockery of the term 'liberal' to define it as being willing to say to criminals: be so good, here's the button. If you want to delete the proof, click No to be researched and punished. In what other area of society would there at all be discussion about the possibility of equipping offenders with the ability to decide for themselves whether the tracks they leave behind could be used by the police or not? The idea appears to be completely monstrous, but it is in practice the resistance to storage obligations: society should refrain from obtaining information. Many people have made the impression that the state is now going to follow what we're doing. Among these are the Dagsnewens Hege Ulstein, who on December 1, with reference to WikiLeaks' publication of secret public documents, wrote: ‘If they can’t keep their own secrets, how are they going to keep ours?’ This overtramp fits into the array of misleading headlines in the media. The country is not the one to store traffic data. This ‘de’ that Ulstein fears does not exist. It is her own provider of network services that will store her traffic data. My supplier will store mine. Currently, data from electronic communications are stored in some cases without legal support, often for a short time and sometimes longer than permitted. The bill will clean up this. The proposal also implies that data currently stored for commercial reasons, billing, are to be stored below according to the needs of the Community, crime prevention. It makes it possible to investigate and prosecute serious crime. In addition, the requirements for storage itself are strengthened. Concession obligations are imposed on providers, personnel authorisation requirements are imposed, encryption regulations are in place and the obligation for suppliers to delete data that are no longer mandatory for storage is tightened up. The police will then have to walk the road to a court in order to obtain data. Normally, they must have concrete suspicions of serious crime – crime with a penalty framework of four years or more. In addition, they must demonstrate that the data will be essential for the investigation. It is incomprehensible that this strict regime of some is referred to as monitoring. It has nothing to do with monitoring – on the contrary. The proposal balances the fight against crime and the protection of privacy in a way that strengthens legal certainty for all. In addition, Norwegian police are given the same tools as their European counterparts. It's important. If the rule of law is to operate and open, it is important that privacy is safeguarded. At the same time, it is essential that serious crime is effectively combated.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1779	Norway is already aggravating with regard to privacy before the introduction of the Data Storage Directive. In this country tax lists are pure entertainment. In this country, people can know who owns a car, just by sending a text message to the State Road Administration. In this country, all drivers are photographed in the new photo boxes. In this country, you can get to know everything about every small enterprise by looking up in public registers. In this country, Nav can snoop at who they want whenever they want. In this country, medical records are so public that many people hesitate to go to a doctor even if they are ill. In this country, a law firm has had a concession to operate private monitoring of file-sharing networks. Now the Right Party and the Labour Party are going to introduce the Data Storage Directive, and Norway is unfortunately at full speed towards becoming like the old Eastern bloc, where the government had full control over where people were at all times. The Data Storage Directive involves a total monitoring of everyone, whether you are old or young. What would have happened in Norway during World War II if one had introduced the Data Storage Directive in 1937, and exactly what had the occupying power used this data for? At the time, the Internet did not exist, but the Post could have logged all the paper letters instead. There is one thing that I am a little surprised at when it comes to the Right and the Workers' Party's eagerness to introduce the Data Storage Directive. When these parties believe that they can justify recording all electronic communications, why should not the same apply to face-to-face conversations? Why should you register where people have been when they bring their cell phone, but not where people are when they put their cell phone at home? What's really the principle difference between a conversation that's happening over the Internet and a conversation that's happening under four eyes? The Constitutional Courts of Germany, Romania and the Czech Republic have been rejected by the Data Storage Directive. All three countries have been exposed to the brutal surveillance communities of the Communists, and they know painfully where the border goes between the fight against crime and monitoring. We already know from today's red-green policy that the Workers' Party will have a cumbersome mix of sensitive personal data. There is therefore no reason to be fooled when they initially restrict access to a few public authorities. Let me say once and for all that I am very disappointed in the Right in this matter. It is possible that I am naive, but I thought that the Right was with the Advance Party to protect the rights of individuals. The right to remain anonymous initially applies everywhere — both on the roads, when a chatter is on the phone, and when a surfer is on the Internet. This is what the Progress Party wants to maintain. The representative of Kolberg said that the Progress Party is not involved in technological development. We can probably have a debate about who is involved in technological development or not, and I think many will be surprised and embarrassed about themselves. But we know that those who plan criminal acts – and then I say I plan criminal acts – are very well on track, and are very well up-to-date on technological developments. They know when they plan to avoid registration, among other things. using proxy servers, online e-mail, VPN connection, which we have here on Stortinget, and fake e-mail addresses. They can use unsecured wireless networks and Skype and cash cards from abroad. The result is simple: those who plan to commit criminal acts take advantage of these possibilities and thus circumvent registration. The result is that those who are then potential offenders – that is, criminals – are not registered, but law-abiding citizens who really have nothing to hide and who have no intention of committing crime are registered. Then it becomes strange to me to introduce a data storage directive with the result that we do what makes a right-wing state worthy, that you are innocent until the opposite is proven. Now all information is recorded no matter how innocent or guilty you are. The result is – as also the State Council of Storberget has been involved – that we also have the opportunity to check people out of the matter. If we are to use the Data Storage Directive to check people on matters, we will have a completely new legal principle in Norway, and the Progress Party is strongly opposed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1796	I'll take the floor for Prop. 50 S for consent to the inclusion of the EU Data Storage Directive in the EEA Agreement. My colleagues from the Right have previously gone through the agreement concluded between the Right and the Labour Party on Prop. 49 L and the reason why the Right finds it possible to give such consent. I will not go further into the substance of the directive and the agreement, but will nevertheless allow me to point out what appears during this debate and the voting as a great paradox to us who are sceptical of the directive. The representative Per Sandberg said in the debate earlier today that ‘the absence of surveillance is well-being’. How, then, it is possible that the alternative of the Progress Party to implementing the Data Storage Directive is to increase, among others. the use of telephone interception? In the Prop settings. 49 L writes the party, among others the need for police intervention can be addressed without the Data Storage Directive and, in their view, ‘communication control, communication interception, screening and infiltration, instruments on which greater efforts should be made’. These are, of course, forms of monitoring against which the Right and other parties place strong constraints, precisely because there are very interventional instruments and because, unlike the Data Storage Directive, these instruments monitor the content of the communication. The Progress Party is in the position to amend the police law and lower the threshold in order to enable the police to operate so-called preventive surveillance for possible criminal acts. If you are concerned about privacy, this setting seems to be a bit funny. This case is one of several in the last years in which it has been discussed to use the so-called right of reservation in the EEA Agreement, or the right of veto, as it is also called. The right of reservation is governed by Article 102(1) of the EEA Agreement. 5, which states that the exercise of the right of reservation results in ‘the relevant part of the Annex being considered temporarily suspended’. What is the relevant part of the Annex may often be difficult to establish. In practice, decisions will be taken by the EU in a situation where no agreement on the relevant legislation is reached. Although the Norwegian side should have good legal cards on hand in certain cases, the EU decision will be just as political as legal. I'll get back to that a little bit. Of course, the fact that the right of reservation has never been used makes it difficult to make clear predictions about the consequences in both directions. However, I record that Professor Fredrik Sejersted in the committee's hearing on questions from my co-representative Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum replied that the right of reservation is real. But it's never meant to be free. Article 102 states that the agreement shall be so-called dynamic and uniform. There are many legal and political arguments that can be drawn in both directions as to the consequences that a possible right of reservation would have for the EEA Agreement: on the one hand, arguments that would indicate that it did not have such a significant impact, inter alia. that the Directive can be said to lie within the external borders of the EEA Agreement, that little of the rest of the Agreement is concerned, that the Directive has been in dispute within the EU and can thus provide an increased understanding of any Norwegian reservation law, and that Norway has been extremely loyal to the principle of dynamic uniformity for 17 years. On the other hand, you can use arguments against. There is widespread reluctance to let the EFTA States choose a little à la carte what they want to be included in directives. The reservation could also mean different market conditions. One argument that can actually be used both ways is that the fact that the directive is controversial in the EU may also be an argument against allowing a foreign country to avoid implementing it. I note that the government is particularly concerned about Norwegian participation in European telecommunications regulatory cooperation in a possible reservation against the Data Storage Directive. Let me also underline that reservation when the EEA Agreement was negotiated was considered a safety valve for matters where the central national interests were adversely affected. I think you can conclude that it is not unfair to use the right to reserve because it is part of the agreement, but it is not a loyalty account that Norway has worked up over many years. So evaluation of use must be an assessment of different interests. In view of this, the right agrees with the government’s proposal to consent to the inclusion of the Data Storage Directive in the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1825	This is a good day for those who want more effective anti-crime and enhanced privacy in this country, because that is what we are now getting. So to the debate: it has surprised me, and has done so as long as this matter has been going on in the press and the media, that the Progress Party is so strongly opposed. But they probably have their reasons, without me yet completely realizing which. They have previously tried to present the Progress Party as the party that has been most concerned with law and order in this country. We have heard that there is too little punishment, that we are clearing up far too little, that it should be done under as difficult conditions as possible, etc., and that all funds should be used. They obviously don't think so anymore. Privacy – and let me underline, as they define it – is more important. But there's someone who needs less protection than others, and it comes out well in the notes. They will amend the Criminal Procedures Act and the Police Act, so that the threshold for initiating surveillance against suspected potential terrorists is lower. I assume, then, that it is the Progress Party that is going to set the criteria for who comes under the category of potential terrorists. They can't believe it, for example. is a job that PST should do, because in this case it is clear that they have very little confidence in them. As the representative Halleraker was also involved in his post, the Progress Party will also set up a national DNA register to store the DNA profiles of asylum seekers. It is in this image that they are now trying to present it as if they are most concerned with privacy. However, privacy should clearly not cover the immigrant population. Per Sandberg said in his post or tried to explain that this had never been the intention of the Advance Party. I recommend Per Sandberg to read the setting and comments from his own party. Some opponents of the directive, and in particular the Progress Party, continue in this debate, as they have done in the past, to run on with well-known horror propaganda. We hear about the GDR and Stasi, etc., and call the storage of traffic data for monitoring. The main argument is that now the Right Party and the Labour Party are going to put the entire population under continuous surveillance. Sometimes it almost sounds like it's supposed to be people watching and following us all every second of the day, hearing everything we say, seeing everything we do. It is also given the impression that it is the state or the police who are going to store the data, as they call it, and not the telecommunications operators. We have to know better than that. Monitoring is something quite different: it's constant human observation. Let me quote what the PST says in its consultation post: ‘Let it be clear: we have neither permission, nor capacity nor interest to follow what the ordinary citizen is doing. Our focus is to protect Norway from serious crime. When we think there is reason to fear that serious crime is planned, we need to go to the court to get permission to implement the necessary methodology. The same will apply to historical traffic data: there must be a need and a legal knowledge, and we must use the information in line with the current guidelines — and it should not be necessary for me to stress that everything PST does is subject to thorough control, not least through the EOS Committee.’ I wish in this debate we could relate to what the matter is really about. To put it simply: it is not monitoring, but it is, once again, as many others have emphasised before me, traffic data to be stored – a little longer than before, but now under much stricter legislation and in controlled forms. Finally, I also wonder a little about what those who oppose the introduction of the directive are most concerned about, whether it is the offender or the victim of the infringement who should have the best protection. Individuals who are subject to assault, violence or other criminal offences shall obviously be deprived of the opportunity to obtain the best possible clarification. For the Workers' Party, the fight against serious crime and the strengthening of privacy is important. By adopting this directive, we are now achieving both.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1852	I allow myself to take the floor in this debate in order to justify the opinion of the Swedish Government in connection with the Data Storage Directive. Dissertation has been a rarity under the red-green government, but this matter is a matter of principle disagreement and a different emphasis for important reasons. It is then neat and correct that the disagreement in the government is presented to the Stortinget, as it is today. In our view, the EU Data Storage Directive involves approving extensive registration of whom we communicate with, when and how we communicate and where we are when we communicate with others. When such storage is made compulsory, it means that the extent of registration of Norwegian citizens, the mapping of important information on how we live our lives, will increase further. It's such a trend in our society already, and it's a trend that should worry us all. Technology gives us great opportunities. It gives us opportunities to make society more efficient in different ways. It gives us opportunities to communicate more and better, and it gives us opportunities to detect and avert crime. But new technologies also present difficult challenges. It requires us to discuss in principle the importance of borders in our society. There is a worrying tendency today to want to exchange freedom for security, or illusions about security. It is a shared responsibility for us to prevent such development. There has been a discussion of the extent to which the Data Storage Directive will actually improve the Norwegian police's ability to fight crime. I see that it has also been the subject of today's debate. I'm questioning it, because the experience shows that the criminals are good at adapting to technology, good at lying in front of those who are after them, so they can avoid registration, avoid re-tracking. Most people, on the other hand, don't do that. I am therefore afraid that there is information about those who are innocent who are mainly going to be stored. However, if we accept the premise that the Data Storage Directive will be an important contribution to the fight against crime, it is problematic. And further, it's clear that today we can avert crime if we take full advantage of technology's ability to monitor and monitor what our citizens do. But will we? Privacy cannot be a matter of increasing non-compliance as technology provides new opportunities to combat crime. That is why the debate on where the border is going is an important political responsibility. SV believes that joining the directive that the Stortinget is currently dealing with is too far to go – for several reasons: because we risk that data with important information about each of us may get out of hand, because there will always be a risk of misuse of such information, because it is a contribution to a social development that we already experience in the direction of more comprehensive monitoring of our movements and actions, and because we believe that the measures are disproportionate in the sense that suspicions to a few should ensure that information about us all is stored. The agreement between the Working Party and the Right provides for a minimum storage period of six months. These differences and disagreements are initially not affected by this, as the storage time does not determine the problem of the Directive. As the Data Protection Authority has emphasised, it is not such that the adverse data protection consequences are reduced proportionally by a halving of the storage time initially proposed. Just because it is a political responsibility to discuss where the limits of registration and monitoring are going, the Stortinget must pursue a continuous debate on privacy, regardless of the EEA. Fortunately, this has now been a different EEA debate with tension in Stortinget about the implementation of a directive. I want to commend all those who have contributed to it. We rely on such important issues of principle to dominate the debate on the European Union. Hopefully, the debate we have had now has shown at least clearly that there is a right of reservation in the EEA Agreement that the Storting can use if the Storting will. I have also followed the reports from the Røjre Storingsgruppe and understand that there will not be a majority in the Chamber for what was the minority view of the government. However, I would nevertheless like to take the opportunity to repeat the recommendation made by the Swedish State Councils, namely to ask the Stortinge to reject the Data Storage Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1873	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1876	The light tray says that it is not the storage time that is important. It may seem that, as SV is acting in the storeroom today, it is actually as if an alternative in terms of storage time is not present at all. It is expressed as if the option to the Data Storage Directive is not at all a storage option. The reason why SV doesn't go into an alternative is that then the parliamentary leader Solhjell and the State Council actually had to write his posts completely about, kept them one more time. Because in the offer – the letter of temptation – to the Right, SV offers three to five months of storage time. They offer extended storage of IP addresses, from three weeks to many months. You offer storage facilities, you offer legislation to monitor your citizens, to use SV's words. Why hasn't SV made its own choice when you really have it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1881	I have seen that there has been a review in the debate that Right has called for what option Right could be created in cooperation with the parties that are now becoming minority in the Stortinget. I think it's a little strange, all the time it's right that even bears the responsibility not to have examined it further through a process. There was a clear indication of the direction in which the Right Group would move. I think it's natural that the SV Storingsgruppe took note of this, and that the process, where the Right has cooperated with the Workers' Party, has gone its way. Had the Right chosen the second starting point, it is of course such that even on the SV side we would have been willing to reach out to reach an agreement that provided better data protection than the result that Storting's treatment will now provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1886	The President would like to give the representative Kambe a new line, but unfortunately there is no room for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1889	Now I'm not concerned with what Right and SV could get in place, but it's part of the same question really. Because we have observed that the so-called privacy alliance has already cracked. The Minister of Transport confirmed in his statement that the Centre Party is really for the storage of traffic data, including the extended storage of IP addresses if it was provided under national legislation, but that they are against the Data Storage Directive because it is an EU directive. Since SV is also part of the so-called privacy alliance, it is natural to ask the Swedish State Council whether the same is the case for SV. Is SV actually for the storage of traffic data, including extended storage of IP addresses, if it is provided under national legislation? And is it that SV is also against the Data Storage Directive because it is a directive from the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1894	SV is against the Data Storage Directive for the reasons that both Me and Bård Vegar Solhjell have explained in our articles, important fundamental reasons for us, of course no matter what framework it is inserted into. That it looked among the parties that are minority in the Storting today, different opinions about what could have been an alternative solution that would better protect privacy than the one that is now on the table, are quite natural. It is clear that also from our side it would have to be willful to reach for an agreement if it had been the way the Right wanted to go. But that's not it, and that's what's probably the result of the Greatness treatment today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1899	The councils are running a double game. The right-hand side was told by just SV and their buddies that it was not appropriate to proceed with negotiations, precisely because it was their side that would not be negotiated two ways. There is reason to remind the Council of State that he is here as Minister of Children. Children need safety. On the security aspect, the Council of State said the following: ‘Illusions about security’. Well, if you just use the close story as an example, it was a big children's porn network all over the world that got rolled up. The IP addresses you found from the Norwegian side, nothing happened to them. They were set aside because the data was already deleted. When Kripos gets the question, Kripos says that there is every reason to believe that if you had had six months of storage, you would have managed to achieve a lot more. Does the safety of children mean nothing? Does storage time mean nothing to the Council of State?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1908	Firstly, I think that the Right should stop pushing responsibility for own voting on others. It is the Right who has made a clear decision as to which direction to go. The fact that this was taken into account by the other parties is natural. And that's what I think right there should be. Secondly, the safety of children means everything to me. The discussion on how to combat crime against children, not least how to combat child pornography, is very important. However, I believe it is essential that we discuss it within the framework in which it should be discussed, and not as a result of an EU directive that imposes on us a number of different measures and a significant storage of data on the whole population, and that, as I said in my contribution, we also need to discuss in principle where the limits of monitoring of our citizens and storage should go.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1915	I share the starting point of the Lightbaking Council, that it is very important that we manage to reconcile freedom with certainty – that we manage that balance in politics. But I want to challenge SV on: Where are these limits going today? That's what we're wondering about. When the Lighthouse argues why SV has taken it into government, and why it is not possible to go in for the implementation of the Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law, many fine words are used: fear of misuse of data, detour data, wrong social orientation and disproportionate measures. But I wonder, what is the SV really want? I do not think it is useful to hide behind it that SV has not come to a negotiated solution with the Right, because SV will not tell the Stortinget what they want instead. That's the challenge I have to the Council of State Lighthouse.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1923	I would agree with the representative that it is not that, through the Data Storage Directive, we are taking the step from an innocent state where there is no monitoring of citizens or monitoring, to a state where this suddenly becomes massive. It also means, of course, that when we say no to the directive, we do not defend all the arrangements in Norway today. The beginning of a development is not an argument for it to continue on its own. I believe that the debate on the Data Storage Directive has contributed to something important in that sense, regardless of the outcome, because the Stortinget and the people of Norway are now having a fundamental discussion on this. My considerations of freedom and security were not just the coin of those who believe the same thing as me. I believe – as the representative – that this is a responsibility we must take together, and a discussion we must all participate in, regardless of what we think about this directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1932	I fully share the views of the Council of State Lighthouses, which he has prepared here. When I choose to use the opportunity to take a reply, it is to clarify some aspects of what he is responsible for as a specialist council. In the hearing of the Transport and Communications Committee, the Children’s Ombudsman was also concerned with the principal aspects of this. sites where information about bullying is sought, or information of a sexual nature, would like to assess their sexual orientation. It can also be cooling in terms of political activity, which can be negative, from our point of view. What assessment has the National Council of Children made of how we can remedy the fact that children will not be able to be curious in the future even if we adopt the directive?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1939	I also noticed the views expressed by the Children's Ombudsman. They contribute significantly, I think, to nuance the discussion of the child perspective by what we are dealing with today. When Stortinget now makes the decision Stortinget seems to do, I think it is essential that we enter into such a discussion. What possible consequences does this have for children and for others, both in relation to the fear that some will relate to how the information on them is recorded and in relation to the danger of abuse that will always be in such a system? These are important reasons why SV has had the view of the directive that we have. When our vision doesn't win, it's natural to discuss what we can do to best mitigate negative effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1946	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1949	The EEA competition law is concerned, but deserves further mention in this debate, on the basis of some fundamental issues. Is the veto right? When should it be used? Does it have consequences for Norway to use the veto right — in which case? When Stortinget acceded to the EEA Agreement on 15 October 1992, Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland was challenged by SV’s then major representative Erik Solheim. He claimed that the use of the EEA Agreement provision on veto would lead to serious problems with our partners. To this Harlem Brundtland replied: ‘And we will be prepared to use the right granted by the agreement, to oppose the proposal becoming a common EEA rule, if we consider it necessary.’ So far, this is the only time the Stortinget has discussed the veto right. It is therefore important to use speaking time on this topic in today’s debate. The enlargement of the EU and the reduction in the number of EFTA countries have increased the importance of the EEA Agreement for Norway. Pure trade balance shows this. Although the right of veto for Norway is real and implies political freedom from a legal point of view, the political space for the use of the right to veto has been reduced – that is my claim – since the EEA Agreement was signed. But of course, in a given case, we can use it. However, my claim is that any Norwegian use of the veto right has more adverse effects on Norway today than was the starting point for the conclusion of the EEA Agreement. Let me start by saying something about the formal process of new EU legislation after it has been adopted in the EU. When the Commission submits a proposal for new legislation to the Council and the European Parliament, Norway and the other EFTA/EEA countries are given the text of the proposal. We assess whether the proposals are EEA-relevant, and if so, the internal evaluation of the proposals may begin. The issue of the inclusion of EU legislation in the EEA Agreement is therefore presented to the EEA Committee as the conclusion of a thorough information and consultation process between the EFTA and EU Contracting Parties. The process is aimed at reaching an agreement. Fortunately, this almost always happens. If a country had constitutional problems with its content or claimed other fundamental national interests, a compromise was reached during the negotiations on the EEA Agreement. That will is still present. In fact, this is a fundamental prerequisite for cooperation. Norway is not alone in having a position. Our special assessments are not always as special as we think, but are often shared by EU Member States. Often we stand together in a Nordic block. Once compromises have been reached, Norwegian interests have been safeguarded in the process across national borders. The action space for the countries is established. Data storage is such an example where EU countries have discussed and concluded through a compromise. If there is no solution in the EEA Committee, the matter will be referred to the EEA Council, i.e. the Commission and the participating countries at ministerial level. If, despite long-term attempts to find a system in the framework of EEA cooperation, Norway decides to use the right of veto, the relevant part of the EEA Agreement to which that provision applies will be suspended, not only between Norway and the EU, but all EFTA countries and the EU. The unanimity principle in the EEA Committee implies this. If one EFTA country disagrees, EU legislation will not be implemented for them either. As a result, Norway, Iceland and Liechtenstein are no longer allowed to continue exporting to the EU on the basis of the old and often less stringent rules. In other words, simply: Norwegian producers who want to operate on the European market still need to adapt to the rules in force there in order to export to the EU. The possibility of veto being used in the EEA Agreement is important and is real. Nevertheless, my review today illustrates that there must be very special national considerations that Norway can rely on for the veto right in the EEA Agreement to be effectively applied. The implementation of the Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law is definitely not such a case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e1982	As you may know, I come from Finnmark. I even come from East Finland. And when we're talking about surveillance, there's probably no other part of Norway that's had more of its population monitored, both in terms of storage and movement, than East Finland. Should I take seriously and seriously that you have actually had a monitoring of your own population for nearly 40 years? We all know that the result of this has not been one-sidedly positive. On the contrary, there's been a lot of negative noise around it. Shall I take seriously that a very small majority in this Chamber here want to introduce the Data Storage Directive, DLD, at the expense of all the individuals and families who do not want to have this in their own home, who actually demand integrity? You want me to take it seriously? At the top of it all, it may seem that those who don't want to introduce this, can well end up financing the entire package, because no one has yet received an answer. The right to remain anonymous is basically universal — both on the roads, when you talk on the phone, or when you surf the Internet. This was achieved by a total increase when the ‘one information society for all’ was addressed in 2006–2007. Unfortunately, the Labour Party and the Right have changed their mind on the matter and now DLD wishes to welcome it. The representative Svein Roald Hansen wondered where the other parties were standing in that matter. Then I can tell him that it was a unanimous big deal in 2006-2007. This is not just about what the future will be like in Norway. This is also about our common history and heritage. The Eidsvollsmen were far ahead of their time when it was about important themes, such as individual freedom, freedom of expression and legal certainty for all. After 134 years, the Declaration of Human Rights appeared, in 1948, followed by the same ideas. Already in 1814 they understood the basic principle that the person who sacrificed freedom of security does not receive any of the elements. Our Constitution leaves no doubt as to what the Owners thought about freedom of expression, privacy and the individual's freedom. The Constitutional Act § 102, which has not been amended since 1814, states: ‘House Inquisitions shall not be located but in criminal cases.’ What do we experience today? Well, we experience that in every single house and apartment you can go in and intercept all the technological conversations. And what does the Data Storage Directive mean? So it's a mandatory registration every time you communicate with your children, your spouse, your friends, your business relationships, your clients, your doctor, your political senses and anyone else you want to communicate with. We experience that the politicians from these parties, the Labour Party and the Right, push the children forward in the matter and claim that they need protection from the invaders. No one can agree that our children need protection. But what does the Children's Ombudsman think about the matter? I quote from the Children's Ombudsman: ‘Based on the enquiries received by the Children’s Ombudsman, the police and the prosecution authority appear to have challenges in ensuring the legal certainty of children in criminal matters. However, the reason does not appear to be primarily the absence of the Data Storage Directive.’ Further: ‘The one-sided focus on the Data Storage Directive alone to protect children from sexual abuse appears to be something sought from this.’ Furthermore, the Children's Ombudsman wants to highlight the issue of which society we want to deliver to our children. Don't children have the right to privacy? And not least, don't children need integrity? The Children's Ombudsman doesn't want it, Redd Barna doesn't want it, and the Data Protection Authority doesn't want it. The journalistic team, the Press Association and the Editors Association do not want to introduce the Data Storage Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2015	A lot has been said in this debate so far, and it is not so easy to add completely new arguments. I still want to come up with some considerations. I don't want to go so far as to say that this is a joyous day, but neither is it a judgment day for the free state of Norway, as several of the opponents try to give the impression. Today we make absolutely necessary and correct legislative changes that strengthen privacy, cf. Today's practice, while taking care of society's need to solve serious crime. We all agree, I believe, that the Data Storage Directive balances these two considerations and that the boundaries between them need to be carefully assessed. That's what the Workers' Party has done. Where it lurks for me and many others, is how the rhetoric of the opponents can be so violent, all the time we know what today's practice is. There are no limits to how serious this alleged monitoring will be in the implementation of the Data Storage Directive, with legal texts adapted to Norwegian circumstances. I respect that when you balance at a limit, there may be different views on which side of the limit you are. I respect that there may also be different views of when you cross that limit. But when one discusses in the border country and suddenly the counterparty accuses not only of crossing the border, but to grab the legs, run, continue and not look back, it does not hang the rhetoric at hand. When we know what is today's practice of storing and delivering traffic data, unless requirements and less privacy, it becomes difficult for me to understand that what we're doing now is a quantum leap. That kind of argument I don't think serves the opponents' cause. Then I can't leave the representatives Hoksrud and Ørsal Johansen a visit. They have articles that scare me pretty much. At the same time, one post was a good example of, I think, how the data storage directive opposes people. Ordinary people do not believe – and of course, rightly, they do not believe – that the Workers' Party and the Right will introduce Soviet states in Norway, and that they are like Stasi or like Ceaussescu. The type of rhetoric from the Progress Party is only devastating to the matter they want, and it is on their behalf and as their loss. But what scares me about the comments made by Mr Hoksrud and the attitude of the Progress Party in the matter is the desire for a more stringent immigration policy as a kind of alternative to the Data Storage Directive and, not least, the proposal to amend the penal code, so that the threshold for initiating surveillance against suspected potential terrorists is lower. This, together with the fact that in the vote they draw the parallel terrorism and Islam, scares me. It's suspicion, it's stigmatisation, it's intolerance, and it's xenophobic rhetoric from the Progress Party that I'm taking a distance from, and that I'm going to warn against. Here you will easily sacrifice the privacy you claim to be concerned with, and take more offensive measures against suspected, potential terrorists. Many questions arise, but first, how do you find out who are potential terrorists? Who's going to define it? The representative Hoksrud spoke of the gust of the past. The party of progress stands for gusts in the present. The Data Storage Directive does not involve monitoring. Data is stored by the providers. The possibility of encrypted storage is given, and data on specific persons can only be accessed by the authorities after legal notice. There must be a suspicion of a criminal offence with a four-year penalty framework. Traffic data is stored for six months, and then deleted. I land on that side of the border where we are, which does not mean the interference with privacy, as the sum of the legislative proposals is, it overshadows any tools that this may have for my and others' security to be safeguarded also in a broad perspective. I believe the veto right is real, and has been open to use it in other questions. But using it in this case will be wrong, because we need these changes in law and the strengthening of privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2041	The issue of the implementation of the Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law has been demanding. The debate has largely focused on privacy issues, and there have been good arguments both for and against implementation. But it surprises me when someone says that those who are in favour of the directive are at the same time against privacy. I think that's not right. The proposal we are going to vote on today involves several ways of strengthening privacy. Even today, echo operators store data from electronic communications for short or longer periods of time for commercial purposes. Some people deliver data to the police when the police ask for it. Others require a court order before they deliver. Some providers delete data when they have to, but not everyone does. Better rules will hopefully help fix this. At the same time, there are some data, and I am thinking in particular about IP addresses, which according to the legislation today have to be deleted after a very short time. This is unfortunate for the investigation of a number of criminal offences in which this type of electronic trace is crucial to police work. That's why we're making sure to fix this right now. This means a little longer storage time for the data that the police may need in their work. At the same time, I understand that some people experience this as a privacy challenge. We have taken this challenge seriously in the proposal for new legislation. When we now impose storage obligations, we take a number of steps to ensure the privacy of the data subjects. First of all, and I think that's very central, we're getting clear rules on when the police are going to be able to get data from the echo operators. It shall no longer be sufficient to send an application for exemption from the obligation of professional secrecy to the postal and telecommunications authorities. Under the new rules, the police are required to obtain a court order before they can request information from the provider. I have confidence in the Post and Telecommunications Authority and that they have made a thorough assessment of these matters so far. At the same time, I believe that legal recognition is an even better guarantee that a thorough assessment is made of the police's need for data against the data subjects' privacy needs. I am sure that Norwegian courts will make these assessments in a good way and that they will ensure that privacy concerns are given the place they deserve in these assessments. Secondly, there will be tighter conditions for the police to be able to provide data. There must be a suspicion of serious criminal offences. So there are penalties that we're not in the vicinity of having today. In fact, no criminal penalties are required at all today for acts that are intended to underpin police access to data from electronic communications. At this point, I believe there is no doubt that the changes in the rules we are debating today are good privacy measures. They limit police access to data to situations where data are actually necessary for the police's important work. This criterion of necessity is essential in terms of privacy. The agreement between the Right and the Workers' Party has provided for further data protection measures. The supervisory work of the Data Protection Authority has revealed that not all providers have equal security in their systems. The agreement helps to clean it up and tighten the rules for securing the stored data. The introduction of the obligation to store and process data makes the Data Protection Authority aware of all those who are required to store echo data in accordance with the new rules. The concessions may lay down specific conditions for the protection of privacy. In addition, I assume that the Data Protection Authority strengthens its oversight of the ecosystem sector in order to ensure compliance with the conditions set. The data surveillance authority shall be empowered to impose encryption where it is considered necessary to ensure the data. In addition, all access to the data shall be logged. Any reading, disclosure or other processing of the data will leave traces in the system. This should include, inter alia: prevent and, where appropriate, detect unauthorised access. In addition, we are in fact imposing not only a storage obligation, but also a clear obligation to delete the data once the mandatory storage period has expired, i.e. after six months. This is a clear indication that providers have an obligation not only to store data for crime control purposes but also to delete data for privacy reasons. Overall, I believe that the bill, as it now stands, goes a little further than today's actual storage practices of most providers. At the same time, the legislative proposal and the amendments of the majority will significantly strengthen privacy. Judicial control and clear penalties provide significant sanctions. Many security measures to prevent unauthorised access to data and ensure that data is only provided when they are actually necessary for police work reinforce this. An important aspect of the debate on the implementation of the Data Storage Directive, and the high interest in the population on the issue, have contributed to raising the interest and awareness of privacy. That's very good! I'm pretty sure there's not a lot of echo operators in the future who could say that they don't know the rules on the storage and deletion of traffic and location data. Because now the rules are getting clearer, and we're going to make sure that they get well-known and that they're being observed. It will also be a strength for privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2079	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2082	The Council of State is responsible for the coordination and coordination of ICT in state activities and agencies. We've seen Nav challenges with billions of dollar bills. We have ALTINN, which cost a billion to implement, and with which, at least, we had big problems for a long time after the tax tasks were spent. And here you have to implement and be responsible for storage, without really knowing the consequences and costs of this. I want to challenge the Council of State whether she believes that there are few complications in implementing this. How can we be sure that all these actors are well-managed when we feel that government departments are unable to keep information secret from the outside world? How, then, can you be sure that you can keep this information away from the outside world and avoid abuse?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2090	First, I want to remind the representative Hoksrud that the data is already being stored today. I agree that it is important for us to set up good security procedures, and therefore the agreement proposes that the Data Protection Authority should consider whether to introduce encryption requirements for the data to be stored and transmitted. In the proposition -- I think it's on page 125 -- it's explained what the possible cost of such an encryption solution is. Fortunately, there are more and more commercial offers related to encryption. I have good faith that we will put in place encryption solutions that will ensure what we want to achieve if the Data Protection Authority finds that they want to use that option in their work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2097	There has been a great deal of focus in the debate on police use of traffic data, but traffic data and subscription data are, of course, relevant in civil matters. A topical issue that has been raised was Lyse, which was required to deliver the owner of an IP address – or at least the name of the owner – to the lawyer firm Simonsen in the so-called Max Manus case. My question is whether the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right now means that telecommunications companies no longer need to provide information about their customers when, for example. a law firm investigates on the basis of a client, as was the case in the Max Manus case. Should an interpretative signal given in the debate so far, this information should only be provided to the police, and I ask for confirmation that that is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2104	It's a question that I can't answer directly. I think that's a question that the Minister of Justice has a greater understanding of the consequences of. But as I understand it, there won't be any direct changes in the situation we have today. What happened in the specific case will remain the legal state after we have implemented the Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law. As far as I understand, there should be no changes in the specific relationship associated with the implementation of the Data Storage Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2111	The Council of State referred to the proposition on page 125, on the cost of encryption. There are several parties who have just asked questions about this, as the agreement between the Labour Party and the Right was published. From the department it turned black: ‘Summaryally, the proposals contained in the Agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right will entail very high costs and will be very challenging to implement.’ [[...]] So my question is to the Minister responsible for competition: will she ensure that we have a good competition? Would it not be natural for providers not to take the cost so that this does not affect competition, in particular the small providers?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2121	I agree that it is important that we have a high level of competition in the telecoms market in Norway. There is a well-regulated market where there are very many operators today. Earlier today, the Minister of Transport has operated with 236 – as far as I noted – and it is important that we are able to maintain that competition. I evaluate, and have registered, the information given in the proposition. We may need to make some adjustments, and of course we will come back to that in budgets and through the legislation to be drawn up in relation to the costs of possible encryption, as the agreement states. However, there are no significant costs. We are talking here about a significant number of telecom operators and costs accumulated over a five-year period. I believe that this will be sensible, and I am absolutely sure that we will find sound solutions on how to recover the necessary costs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2128	First, I would encourage the Council of State to really go into what Pollestad asked about. It cannot be true both what the Council of State says, and what the partners of the agreement say from the pulpit here today. But what I want to ask for and follow up, is what Hareide mentions about the costs of the telecommunications operators to implement this agreement. They're going to be significant and big. It will also lead to telecommunications companies trying to find the cheapest storage capacity. It is not in Norway; it is probably outside Norway. Is it the case that the Data Protection Authority that is to enforce this under the agreement – enforce this legislation, check that it is doing so correctly – will also be given authority outside Norway? If a telecommunications company chooses to store all this information in Romania – on the cheapest server for that company – will the Data Protection Authority be empowered to contact the Romanian authorities to ensure that it is properly implemented? Or is the Data Protection Authority limited to Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2135	It is such that telecom operators operating in Norway are required to comply with Norwegian law, and it will also apply to how to store the data. If it is considered safe to store abroad, the Data Protection Authority will not have a direct supervisory responsibility for it. However, this will only apply in cases where the Data Protection Authority either considers it appropriate or where the individual has agreed that this may be stored abroad. When the Data Protection Authority is then to supervise the activities carried out abroad, it must do so in cooperation with the authorities of other countries. Data protection in Norway cooperates with supervisory authorities in other countries, if there are foreign actors who need assistance from the Data Protection Authority for things stored in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2140	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2143	The Data Storage Directive is about the kind of society we're going to leave to our children. Even I have four children, three daughters and a son, and I want them to live and live in a society where the state respects people's right to privacy. However, the Right Party and the Workers' Party have now agreed to introduce a directive, all of which is to be monitored. As many people have already said, the directive obliges all telecommunications companies to store whom you call, where you call, how long you call, who you send SMS to, where the receiver is, when you are on the Internet and how long, and who you send e-mail to. This applies not only to adults but also to children and young people. So the right and the Labour Party will force the telecommunications companies to register information about our children. I feel this as a direct distrust of parents, but also a distrust of children and young people who will now be monitored as if they were criminals. I have noticed that both the Redd Children and the Children's Ombudsman are bringing forward the Children's Convention in their hearing opinions. The Children’s Convention states that children are not to be involved in their private, family, home or correspondence at random or unlawfully. This is worth noting. Nor do we have absolute guarantees that data from the Data Storage Directive can be leaked online. Then WikiLeaks will fade in proportion. The German politician Malte Spitz was allowed to monitor for a six-month period in line with the Data Storage Directive. This resulted in tens of thousands of stored data, among others. on the cities in which he had been in, with whom he had always had contact, and e.g. which hotels or bars he had visited during his spare time. I simply do not want such information to be recorded about me, my children – who are now young people – and my other family. I guess no one else wants it either, except the Right Party and the Labour Party politicians. What the Right Party and the Labour Party are doing now, in my opinion, is a gross infringement. Fighting crime is important, but I do not believe that such a monitoring directive is the answer to all the challenges facing the police. Those who are really criminals will probably find ways outside, while ordinary people are being monitored. There are criminals in South Africa too, but the police already know who they are. Then it's completely wrong to put the whole population under surveillance. I'm going to encourage every right-wing representative to go in and ask, what kind of society do I want for myself and my family? The right-hand line in this case may be – or is – very difficult to understand. So when it comes to monitoring five million people in case any of them are going to do something wrong, this reminds me of the comic book about Knoll and Tott, where they both get the Christmas of Captain From – in advance, in case they were going to do something wrong in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2164	I have the floor at some point in the debate, as most things have been said. However, when I choose to take the floor on such an important matter, it is precisely because – as the previous speaker said – this is about how we want to deliver society to the future generation. I want to bring in some perspectives, which is so far mentioned several times, but which underlines why it's actually about what kind of society we're going to create through such decisions that are taken today. I have to admit that when I have been listening to the debate and followed the submissions, I have tried sincerely to listen to the good arguments for why to introduce the Data Storage Directive. And I've heard some good arguments. I have heard some arguments where I have seen that perhaps the Data Storage Directive could have done something right there. But I find it extremely difficult to understand that the Data Storage Directive is so important, because this is a directive that came about after the 2004 terrorist attacks. The EU took a decision on the Data Storage Directive in 2006. We are here today to deal with a matter to be adopted or introduced, implemented and thus brought into force from 1 April 2012, i.e. six years after the decision taken in the EU. If the Data Storage Directive had been so important, I almost think it is a shame that the Norwegian Government has not brought that directive to Stortinget until today. If it had been as important as it is argued for, especially from the Workers' Party, I do not understand that one dare not bring the directive to the Stortinget before six years later. The second perspective that I think makes it difficult when I see the good arguments for the adoption of the Data Storage Directive is that it is so easy to avoid. For example, when you refer to: iPhone, which was at least not so widespread when the Data Storage Directive was planned and introduced into the EU, already knows that it was created for a completely different time. And when one knows that one can use the same phone and call through Skype or talk through Facebook or use Hotmail or Gmail, or use foreign SIM cards on a cash card in a phone, it says to itself that if it is so important, and if it is to be taken so many, they are very stupid those who cannot avoid it. That's why I think it's hard to reverse the principle that you're innocent until the opposite is proven, and monitor the whole community just because one believes that this should first of all be so important, and second that one should take so many. I don't think it's worth it, even if I see any arguments. That's why I have to say that I don't think a person can say that one argument is good enough – and the next. There are always some arguments that are good enough, but if you continue like this, one will move into a society that one does not want in the future. That is the decision that we are making today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2177	Today, the Stortinget will decide an important case for Norwegian society. It is a matter of so much more than police instruments to combat crime both nationally and as a result of international organised data crime. Deepest of all, the Data Storage Directive deals with whether we should sacrifice democratic and important rule of law principles in order to comply with the wishes of light ways – if any – to combat crime. In this debate one can choose to debate good and bad practical examples. I will not fall for that temptation, but try to keep the debate at an overall, principled and ideological level. This debate is so fundamental that we must all, and not least the Members of this House, rise to an overall level. Let's say it's raised above any doubt that no matter what position you choose, you have to sacrifice something. This is simply a question of democracy, nothing less. We are happy to live in what is presented as the world's best country to live in. The good life can not only be measured in material values such as house, boat, car and salary, or in the absence of sickness, etc. Thanks to a good health care system and good care for the elderly, although many questions can be asked about these too. Rather, a good life can only be measured in one’s own opportunities for self-development through right to school and inclusive working life. For the basic element of good life, democracy – the right to choose – is the right to be human on good and bad with their own good, and bad, choices, and, not least, the absence of coercion. In summary, democracy can be said to be ‘building society on the confidence of individuals’ and ‘the main task of policy is to ensure the fundamental freedom of individuals, not to restrict them’. In addition to the perspective of democracy, this is a question of the rule of law, which, of course, is also fundamental in a democracy. In this particular question, I don't need to spend a lot of time finding good arguments. Many well-founded, thinking people have said and written a lot correctly on this very question. So let me quote the Director of the Data Protection Agency Georg Apenes, who wrote: ‘The limit does not apply if the data are stored for 12 or 6 months. The limit is by allowing Norwegian citizens to have their behaviour stored without even suspecting that they have done something wrong. Can all of us who have fought for the liberal state of law be involved in eroding the very foundation on which it rests? [[Applause from the gallery]] Do we want a big brother to see and store which one of us is talking to on the phone and sending a text message to? So I'm summarizing, and I think I'm doing it on behalf of a real majority when I say that technological development is giving new opportunities for monitoring individuals through the collection and compilation of personal data. However, a key task for a liberal judiciary is to protect individuals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2200	The President will only state that there will be peace in the Chamber during the debates.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2203	All providers of telecommunications and the Internet are thus required to store all traffic data in view of the subsequent criminal prosecution of customers. This departs from two principles: first, the basic rule that personal data should be used only for the purpose for which they were collected. What has so far been banned for private purposes is now becoming a norm for the state. Second, the principle of investigation: that no preparation for criminal prosecution is to be done without concrete suspicion. The representative of Kolberg said in a previous post that data collection was only for the perpetrators of serious crime. I'm afraid that's not true. The case concerns the collection and storage of data for all users. If we assumed that no information would go astray and be misused by the criminals you say you would fight, if we assumed that no one in the administration and police could do wrong or wrong, if we assumed that a democratically run state could really ensure that no one would break its own security rules, even then we would still face an instrument that has a cost side greater than money. Society where law enforcement is the result of external control and detection risks is fundamentally different from countries where law enforcement is based on incorporated standards and citizens have made their own responsible choices. Of course, we all agree not to use torture or degrading treatment to impose confessions, without any reason being accused of not wanting to fight crime. But there is a long civilisational development behind such a position. On the other hand, it appears that policy in democratic countries has not yet been able to set any fundamental limits on the use of technological instruments, only degree limits. The limits have so far been set by courts which have assessed the interventions against constitutional protection of individuals. The Directive is part of a change of mood triggered by events for approx. 10 years ago. The size was dealt with five years ago by extended and in-depth investigation methods. Even then, it was said that a perfect balance was found between privacy and police methods, not least because the investigation principle, which is now abandoned, was retained. Unfortunately, the directive has the potential for further slippage. Already in view of what is serious crime, there has been a slip while the matter has been on the agenda. During the debate we have heard that data storage is almost a higher expression of privacy. It is based on the misconception that the individual's interests are fully integrated in and cared for by the state. The greatest mistakes in human history have been made on the basis of such misconceptions. The directive is no profit for the development of justice, and I would also like to take the consequences of the subsequent vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2224	I think we should keep the Data Protection Tab high when we discuss investigation methods for the police, because it must never be the police that dictate the elected authorities on the subject of anti-crime tools. The tools must come after political balances. But privacy is also about the basic security of each individual because society has a responsibility to prevent crime. It is also important to ensure that if we are exposed to crime, our chances of being exposed to crime are high. We don't necessarily need more monitoring, but the goal must be to have a smarter use of traffic data that we can access. The legislative proposal for the implementation of the EU Data Storage Directive means that more stringent requirements will be imposed than today on the use of traffic data in criminal investigations. The Data Storage Directive obliges the providers of communications such as the Internet and telephony to store traffic data, to which they are not obliged today. This means that today there is a great deal of uncertainty in each case where the police consider that there is reason to retrieve data from individual companies, when companies have different practices, and also when the handling and securing of data is too poor. The agreement between the Right and Workers' Party goes a long way in tightening up the guidelines for the use of traffic data, which I believe is a double victory for privacy, as the data collected is made more secure forewarned and more difficult for uninvited eyes, while giving the police a better opportunity to resolve more cases. The Data Storage Directive is important for the resolution of serious crime, such as child abuse on networks, terror and organised crime that goes through several countries. Out of 1,450 criminal cases in which criminal penalties had been imposed for murder, serious drug crimes, serious crime and sexual assault, traffic data had been collected in 52pst. In 82 p.m. of cases where traffic data had been collected, the main investigator was of the opinion that traffic data had a significant impact on the outcome of the case. Traffic data must now be stored for six months and the maximum volume of traffic data is requested here. But I'm pleased that the length of the storage period is some of the things that are to be evaluated after four years, because in some of the major and major criminal cases, traffic data is also needed in the period six months to 12 months. First, any disclosure of data shall be subject to judicial review and, second, data shall only be provided to the police where there is ‘disputeable grounds for suspecting’ a criminal offence which, under the general rule, has a penalty framework of more than four years. Thirdly, it is combined with a requirement that the provision of data must be essential for the investigation. Finally, these three last points show that the Directive will have very little impact on our everyday lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2247	For a long time we have taken freedom and our rights for granted. Principles such as freedom of expression and human dignity have been carriers of our democracy, and the idea that someone would rock these principles has never been present before. As mentioned earlier in the debate, this directive is an annihilation of one of the most important principles on which our country of law is founded, namely the principle that you are innocent until the opposite is proven. In this principle lies, among other things: not to be investigated unless one is suspected of planning, contributing to or having committed a criminal act. This is strongly reflected in both our legal position and in the European Convention on Human Rights. The introduction of the Data Storage Directive will impose a collection of data on all, without taking into account whether they are suspected or not. This makes us move towards a nation that is then based on distrust over trust. Yes, it is true that information about a lot is already stored. Credit card usage, telephone usage, bombings and the like are often stored in order to be able to bill users afterwards. The important change is that the directive now requires all telecommunications companies to save who you call, where you call from, when you call, how long you talk, who you send SMS to, etc. So, everyone has to be investigated as a criminal without any suspicion or charge of participation in criminal acts. Now that the state of Norway is monitoring its citizens, I think it is frightening. It gives an unpleasant feeling that big brother sees me even more than before. I agree with the Council of State Lighthouse that the criminals will probably be in front of the technology, that they will be able to figure out ways to get away, while we are the others who are not criminals, who will feel uncomfortable by being monitored. We are going into a future that really rockes our freedom of expression and the human dignity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2262	Before the next speaker receives the floor, the President will state that the called alternate of the county of Hordaland, Roald Aga Haug, has taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2268	The purpose of the Data Storage Directive is to detect, investigate and prosecute serious crime. In my approach to this matter for over a year and a half, I have tried to deal with the matter as I do with the world as it is, and not as the world should be. Against this background, I believe that the Norwegian inclusion of the Data Storage Directive is a necessary adaptation to the development of a modern society. Today's practice means that data traffic is stored from 10 to 5 months. The right will, through voting in the Storting today, increase it to six months. IP addresses are stored today for three weeks. The no lots and data protection will further increase the storage of IP addresses. It is supported by the right, but we want to limit it to the minimum of six months in the directive. Kripos reports that traffic data are used in half of all serious criminal cases in Norway — even higher in the most serious cases. Since 2005, the use of traffic data has been an important part of the evidence in all cases of organised crime or terrorism. The possibilities of criminals in a new technological everyday life and the future must be balanced by the ability of the state of law to follow their tracks. In the old days, the police could wait for the criminals at a hidden meeting place. Today's technology makes meeting places change. In the old days, criminals could run from the police, they could hide from the police, they could hide in the woods for the police. Today, criminals are hiding more and more on the Internet, and then a logical consequence, if the police are to be able to follow the criminals, is that they can also be searched on the Internet. Privacy and societal considerations need to be properly balanced. I believe that the directive had a good starting point, which was improved by the government, but which has become significantly better through negotiations with the Right. As a representative of the Right, I am very concerned with the rights of individuals, the principle of freedom under responsibility, the protection of private property rights and that the State should refrain from detailed regulation and unnecessary monitoring. Norway is a state of law and will remain a state of law after that, and I am very sure that the inclusion of the Directive is very well adapted to a modern state of law and harmonizes well with the Right Principles, the Right Values. Opponents have still not come up with an overall alternative, despite a year and a half, because then they would have been revealed. Then we could no longer have just discussed the principles, we actually had to discuss the storage of it, where it should be stored, how long it should be stored, who should be given insight, on what basis, who should pay, and who should check. That's what the opponents have defined themselves away from. The rest of us have done it a different way. The Right Party and the Labour Party have taken a national responsibility and are now contributing to a good decision in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2287	I'd like to quote Benjamin Franklin as others: ‘Whoever is willing to sacrifice his freedom for a time in security does not deserve either freedom or security.’ Unfortunately, this temptation has fallen to the majority. The Labour Party and the Right have taken a piece of people's freedom because they think it will create security. A country should have confidence as a starting point for policy. In this case, the majority shows distrust to the Norwegian people. Probably we haven't seen the end of the mistrust. The representative of Arve Kambe, who was long speaking in the data storage case, is quoted as follows in the Nation on 5 May 2010: "What is my biggest criticism of the directive is that it does not go far enough. It is too easy to get away using Skype, Facebook and other open networks, and these holes are so obvious that they have to be sealed." I am told that the right to those degrees is rebellious about the idea that individuals should have the opportunity to communicate without the State logging it. New Right has forgotten its ideology. The right to privacy and privacy is a fundamental human right. In other words, it would be pointless to talk about the majority of the people being in favour of the directive, as some of the supporters have done in the debate. The central party has a principle approach to the directive, and our position is not influenced by polls. It's been said about us in the Center Party that we're good negotiators. But after having seen the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right, I must say that the Workers' Party has also learned something. Right-wing boasts that they have been perpetuated in a number of areas, but in sum there is a trifle, for the truth is that the Stortinge will today adopt the largest monitoring action in Norway's history. I was in 2009 in a radio debate with right-leader Erna Solberg. The case involved automatic traffic monitoring and storage of cars that passed, for two to three minutes, a measure that would save lives in traffic. Solberg rejected this in cash for privacy reasons. I remember being impressed that it was possible to be so principled, putting privacy ahead of a measure to combat damage and kill in traffic. Yes, I was almost impressed – but it was that time. Today, we see that principles are falling. But the Central Party will continue to fight for individuality and against the monitoring society, and we will continue to fight for people's right to fundamental freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2310	The good dialogue on considerations that need to be balanced makes policy exciting. In this case, we need to find a balance where the police are given the necessary means to combat crime, while at the same time protecting the privacy of individual citizens. This balance sheet is reflected in the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right on the Data Storage Directive. New technology is desirable, gives us new opportunities, but also new challenges. When new technology provides new instruments to criminals, we as legislators should also provide the police with new instruments to combat crime. If Norway is to be one of the few countries in Europe that do not store this type of data, we are at risk of becoming a haven for the type of crime that traffic data is needed to combat. An important premise for me is that the fight against crime is also largely about safeguarding the privacy and integrity of the victims. Many opponents use great words about principles, but it is practical and sober that a small contribution from each of us in the form of traffic data storage can help prevent and solve serious crimes against children and other vulnerable groups. My traffic data will have to be stored for six months if the gain for others can be so large. I support all that Martin Kolberg has said about the use of the monitoring concept. I believe that when the Workers' Party and the Right are described as a monitoring alliance – and if the GDR and the KGB are involved – it is taken completely out of proportion with the people who have experienced real monitoring. It is, after all, that we also today store data from invoice considerations, so that we can pay bills in a comfortable way, for example. every three months instead of paying each day. Then I think that in the future we can also store for the protection of privacy and the integrity of others. I don't think the most people perceive today's storage as privacy-invasive. Look at the bank overview of our accounts, as Svein Roald Hansen was in on earlier today. The bank's ability to intervene on suspicion of misuse of our accounts is probably welcomed by most. Policies are both rewarding and demanding when different principles need to be balanced against each other. It is no longer ethical to choose the majority’s right to the protection of traffic data over the minority’s right to protection against abuse and crime. The exchange of information need not in itself be an intervention against privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2323	In this case, the purpose of combating crime is to protect privacy. It is sometimes heard in the public debate as if this question were to choose either one or the other, as if it were to fight crime while taking into account the individual’s demands for anonymity and protection against unjustified surveillance, would not be possible. I do not agree that this is a either-or-question. This is about balancing interests and finding good solutions, like most of the most difficult political issues. In this case, I believe that we have found a good and balanced solution. I am pleased and need to underline the importance of cleaning up the legal situation in the field. Today, there is an arbitrary practice among providers with regard to the collection, storage and delivery of traffic data. I'm worried because there are no clear demands on the area for the data that is already being collected and stored. The requirements for the procedures to be applied are, I believe, a clear strengthening of the protection of individuals. The encryption of data, storage requirements and restriction of access to data establish important barriers to ensuring that data does not compromise and fall into the hands of unauthorised persons. At the same time, some more traffic data on communication will be kept. But it is not that these are information that governments or anyone else have access to and can monitor continuously to control all citizens in this country. Luckily, a judicial review is being introduced for the disclosure of the information, a clear improvement in legal certainty for individuals in relation to the current state of law. The disclosure of information shall take place when there are concrete suspicions of serious conduct, following judicial review. When I read my bank account statement, I really think I don't have to keep a diary. That's what the bank does for me. On the bank statement, I can read where I've been, what I've done, and when I did it. Perhaps there should be a basis for ensuring this information in the same way as we now ensure privacy through changes in the eco-nomy law. For me, privacy is not just about protection against surveillance and that the information can be balanced. Privacy is also about protecting citizens from serious crime. Privacy is also to ensure that organised crime can be combated in society. Privacy is also making every effort to protect our children from sexual abuse and gross exploitation. That's why we need to find balanced solutions, so that we can also create a safe society in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2336	Today, we have heard many start by what they perceive that the data storage directive is really, and what it is about. I believe that the Data Storage Directive is really about what we perceive as freedom. We boast of being a nation where the individual is free and legal certainty well cared for. In my opinion, freedom from surveillance is an essential part of the concept of freedom. The starting point is that the country's citizens should be free from surveillance unless they are suspected of anything criminal. In such cases, the use of regulated coercive measures may allow the monitoring and registration of individual individuals. The whole point of the Data Storage Directive is to restrict the sphere of freedom of citizens. The authorities shall be able to record information about where you are, who you are talking to, how long you have talked to them, and what websites you are visiting, without any reason. The registration shall apply to all persons. Of course, only the most naive people believe that this will help to improve the resolution of serious crime. Criminals plan their illegal activity. They know their traffic is stored. They're the closest to finding new ways to communicate. They don't have to take this into account in any special way. Those who remain, those who suffer from this, will be ordinary people who really don't have anything to hide – other than ordinary everyday sins, and it may be bad enough if that information falls into the wrong hands. The experience suggests they're in the wrong hands. We've read bank statements from the royal family's accounts in See and Hear. DNA material is stored on the identity of the Forensic Institute despite the fact that it is specifically prohibited by law. Health records are temporarily freely circulating, and traffic data are surprisingly easily accessible. Technological developments mean that soon there will be no limits to what kind of monitoring and registration may be relevant for the sake of good. So why don't we monitor more? Why should we not register more as long as reduced crime can be achieved, better protection for health or reduced accidents? As soon as there are no limits to what the monitoring arguments can be used for. This is the problem when the discussion starts on principles to deal with practical adaptations. Freedom from surveillance is a fundamental value in any legal State. The majority today adopts a clear violation of Norwegian principles of freedom, and perhaps the breach is also so serious that it rockes at the very foundation of the Constitution. The Constitution § 102 to prevent privacy violations for persons who are not suspected of crime is one element. Unfortunately, I think that the Labour Party parliamentary leader contributes to a clear derailment when he later acts as if this is about how to define monitoring. It's not worth this hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2349	I think it's pretty great to hear the representative Anundsen talk about monitoring, when his party, the Progress Party, says that instead of the Data Storage Directive, we need to make more use of space listening and telephoning – that is, to save both the content of the conversations and who you're talking to, etc. I think these are big words from the Progress Party, which unfortunately falls on its own unfairness. This is not a matter of concern. After four years as head of the Justice Committee, I learned one thing. It's that one of the main reasons why the police are able to solve so much crime is that the criminals are doing wrong. They make a lot of mistakes. There is a great deal of crime that is being perpetrated, and much of this will help to clarify the Data Storage Directive. What I really wanted to say a little bit about is something that few people have talked about. The representative Pollestad from the Center Party thought instead that it was the Workers' Party that had negotiated very well. I understand that if he, like many others, has not read the agreement that has been concluded. The only thing that is produced by the opponents of the Data Storage Directive is that the Right has been passed on for one thing, namely six months of storage. Yes, had it been so small, I would not have voted in favour of the Data Storage Directive either. We've been through a number of points. In the 2009 Stortingen, this room dealt with a comprehensive privacy proposal from the Right. None of the items were adopted. Everyone was confounded by the red-greens. And now we're going to get an average of a lot of points, for example. data logging. We have access to information about who has been in and looked at our data, for example. in Nav, e.g. data according to the Patient Register Act and many other laws. We also say that there should be a much stronger protection of data, with encryption. We say that there will be privacy officers in different state agencies, so that a person will have a much less chance of the royal family's account information or other information leaking through cheating servers. It's going to be a much stronger review of the whole foundation for data storage and protection – and I think many will be happy about that. For example, in the Social Security Act, we have to. stress that only in the case of social security abuse by handling personnel and ensure that records are processed exclusively in the Special Control Units of the Working and Welfare Session. The last point that the Progress Party should be pleased that we are now finishing is that information on tolls can be used by the Equation Authorities. This is what the Right Party and the Advance Party have been fighting against for many years. Now we're going to get a pass on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2365	The Data Storage Directive clearly shows that the batches represented on Stortinget have a very different perception and a very different approach to the implementation of this Directive. Different angles of incidence give different conclusions. The Labour Party respects the fact that other parties conclude differently from us. Many who oppose the Data Storage Directive have an individual approach in which the individual's rights are addressed to society's needs. The matter has been thoroughly clarified, not least through today's debate. Traffic data will be stored. The storage will be for six months. In order for the police to obtain these data, there has to be some cause for suspicion – so indiscriminate that it has to trigger a four-year penalty. I will not comment on whether it may feel like an infringement to others, but I know that for my own person it is not an infringement that my traffic data is stored, so that someone can go back and find out who I have contacted, and when I have contacted him in the last six months. It is not an intervention in my privacy, it does not threaten my integrity, and I have nothing to fear if I am not suspected of anything serious criminal, and if I am suspected, I actually have confidence in the police handling of my data. It doesn't even feel like a privacy victim. I record that many of my co-representatives do not experience it that way. We have to live with the Workers' Party and the Right, setting up societal needs and privacy needs against each other and weighing them in such a way that we get an implementation that gives the police one of the tools they need. Left's Skei Grande provides for an increased opportunity for the police to work with traditional methods. Police must use all methods, both traditional and technical. What is certain, at least, is that the criminal environments are not content with just traditional crime. We have to take the development of crime seriously, and we have to give the police the tools they need. This room is quick to criticise the police if serious crime is not solved. When the police come to us and plead for a tool that their European colleagues have, and which they prove they need, we have to take it seriously. That's what the Working Party and the Right do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2380	I've read the Right Party program. It says a lot of good things. I could almost recommend more people to read it, not least right-wing representatives who are voting for the Data Storage Directive today. It says, among other things: That right we build society on the trust of the individual. It states that technological developments are constantly giving new opportunities for the monitoring of individuals through the collection and compilation of personal data. It says that the Right wants a society built on a strong rule of law and the principle of innocence until the opposite is proven. And it says that the Right believes that privacy needs to be ensured in all areas of society. When assessing the need for new research methods, data protection considerations must weigh heavily. These are all good wordings, and as I said, one should wish that the representatives of the Right had read this. I am so proud to stand here and represent the Progress Party, which is voting against today. I am also proud to represent the South-Trunde County, where all six parties represented in the Stortinget have taken decisions against the Data Storage Directive at county level. Then it is incredibly sad when only three out of ten of the counties' representatives actually follow up the decisions in their own states and vote against today. The representative Anders B. Werp said that it is well documented that it works. That was new to me. I have the impression that the EU is struggling with this evaluation because it has not been able to prove that it works. So if the representative Werp has information from safe sources in the EU, it should have been presented to the Stortinget – thoroughly and properly. I know you don't have time for a thorough examination of this matter, because the Right Party will have a meeting soon, and the Right Party will not accept it. But if the representative of Werp had this information, it would have been okay to have it presented. Then you argue that this will lead to more settled cases, and many of the representatives have talked about sex crimes. Now it's like for those billions -- at least hundreds of millions of dollars -- this is going to cost, you would have got a lot of good police work. Once again, the police themselves, those who work with sexualized violence in the police, say that there is an increasingly negative attitude to working with matters within their field, it is more difficult to put the necessary resources into this field than for example. in drug matters and in other acts of violence or investigation. Obviously, with a few hundred million extra dollars for police work this year, we could have done a lot to protect the children and the women who are exposed to sexualized violence. The Data Storage Directive will not do that. I will take the liberty of quoting Arne Johannessen – in 2003 – who wrote to Dørum that telephone calls are not used in planning organized crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2397	This is a case that will leave strong traces in Norwegian legal opinion and Norwegian social development. The fundamental principle of the liberal rule of law is that until the citizens themselves have been given real reasons for their mistrust by the State is to have confidence in the citizen. The Right Party and the Labour Party are turning this fundamental liberal perspective on their heads. Now everyone should be suspected if they use a telephone. Fear of terrorism has led to many interferences in privacy and privacy. It is a development that has long been the concern of most people who are concerned about the central principle of legal security. But with the implementation of the Data Storage Directive, we are crossing a new level of principle. By allowing citizens to be monitored for no reason to be suspected, we are entering a monitoring society that is difficult to assess. The worst thing about the Data Storage Directive is the lack of confidence in the citizens that the unsuspected principle of monitoring is based on. The Norwegian model of society with a low level of conflict is based on trust between citizens and the governmental powers. Now the surveillance comrades are signaling that they no longer trust the people. Can they then wait to be met with respect and confidence back? Right-hander likes to adorn himself with being a liberal game. And the Labour Party is busy defending the Norwegian social model. The Data Storage Directive violates the basic principle of a liberal party, and it concerns the most fundamental part of the Norwegian model of society, namely trust between citizens and the rulings. So both sides go on chords with their own core values. I have a big problem understanding the urgency of this matter. Are the supporters of the directive afraid of the important and exciting debate that is now taking place in other European countries? More and more people realize that the Data Storage Directive breaks a dam that it is not possible to rebuild. Breaking trust in the citizens and replacing it with supervision, we get a colder, less human and less solidarity society. Is this worth the loyalty of the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2414	Through this debate, I have gained enough self-confidence to realize that through my post I am unable to change the position of those who are opposed to the introduction of the Data Storage Directive. This matter is characterized by both doubt and faith, and so has it been with me. But once the positions have been taken, they are often presented in a black and white perspective, with strong and clear arguments for their position, and that is also part of the nature of the policy. However, like the representative Håkon Haugli, I react to the fact that in his speech, the representative Trine Skei Grande refers to a democratic majority and its opinions as ‘wicked’. It is with respect to report a very disrespectful way of meeting the opinions of others in such an important debate that we have today. When the word ‘wicked’ is first used, I will also use it, but then in a slightly different perspective than the representative Skei Grande chose to focus on. The key element of this debate is to facilitate the prevention of serious crimes, and there is no one in this room who disagrees with me that some of the most vicious and repulsive crimes that happen are crimes where children are involved. In such a setting, it is right to use both the words malicious and repugnant, regardless of the position you have in this debate. Last week, as members of the Family and Culture Committee, we were travelling in Vietnam and Cambodia. Among many interesting and important topics that were discussed were the kidnapping and sale of children. There was no concealment that very many children were sold to brothels, who were visited by men from organized group claims from around the world. They came from China, Taiwan and various countries in Europe, probably also from our country, without mentioning it. In the slumber of one of the cities we visited, we met many trusting children full of dreams of a different future than they were in there and then. Unfortunately, it is likely that the childish joy we could see in these eyes can quickly be filled with tears and despair, because they can be victims of a cynical trafficking in human beings and put on a price tag against the sexual, brutal and not least malicious actions and lusts of adults. In relation to today's debate, the use of modern technology is one of the most important venues for disseminating information and building up precisely for such obscene actions. Fortunately, we see that such networks are discovered, but often too late. Facilitating at the earliest opportunity to prevent such networks and crimes from developing is part of this debate, no matter what position we might have. Through common European rules, we can help prevent as many children as possible in slums and elsewhere from becoming part of an information that will later develop between users via digital media.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2427	Late in the debate, there is reason to say that there is a lot of talk about the EU in this matter and little about our own data protection commission, which, in fact, when it presented its report at the beginning of 2009, had its own opinion on the Data Storage Directive. It has very few affected. I understand that the two parties that are now imposing this directive on the Norwegian population do not want to talk about what the Privacy Commission said. Among other things, it said: «We cannot support the implementation of the Directive without better evidence of the need for extended storage.» We still believe that this is not well documented, and we believe, and also see in the EU, that it is difficult to document the particular effect on the fight against serious organised crime. On the contrary, we believe it is clearly demonstrated that the Data Storage Directive has considerable scope for action for smart and organised criminals – and for us to obey law to that extent as well. It is relatively easy to bypass this large mask that the trailers will pull out. This space for action is growing rapidly, with rapid technological developments in the field of communication. That is why we believe that the directive will have an impact on the fight against crime, at least old-fashioned and naive. There is no effective fight against organised crime through the nine-day monitoring of all the law-abiding citizens in the country, and that is what you should do. The Privacy Commission, a Norwegian investigation, appointed by the previous Stoltenberg government, also said: «We believe that the Data Storage Directive puts both privacy and freedom of expression to the test.» And on the other hand, «EMK» – European Convention on Human Rights – «the second paragraph of Article 8 provides for interference with privacy. In order for such an intervention to be sound, it must, inter alia: be necessary in a democratic society.’;» So these aren't my statements, but it's the Privacy Commission, and I keep quoting: ‘In this context, it is according to the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights that it must be’ — in foreign language — ‘a ‘pressing social need’ to intervene in privacy. [[EMD]] It does not hold that it is appropriate, reasonable or desirable. In addition, the action taken must be proportionate to the objective pursued.’» And the Privacy Commission says that, in their view, it is problematic to introduce the Directive, precisely in relation to this ‘necessity principle and proportionality principle’. So those who want to go on with this to the EMD, have good reasons to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2454	We've been on for almost seven hours debating whether we're going to be allowed to have a system that allows us to come back to and get hold of those who have made mistakes in society. Some believe that the steps that many of us think are right – we who want a secure society – will lead to the monitoring society. I have the feeling that they think we have a Stasi in Norway that is going to sit and analyze each person, in order to be able to counter-react to anyone. "Brother sees you," they say. No, Grand Brother doesn't see you at all. The data collected goes into -- we can call it -- a black hole. No one touches those data unless there is cause for suspicion of an untruth leading to a four-year or more prison sentence. Here's the difference: if you had the data available all the time and could use it for something, it would have been something else. But those data are hidden, so no one has access to them, unless the court has said that the police will have the opportunity to use them to solve a matter of fact. It can't be a surveillance society. It's because we want to have a good society that protects us from those who've made such lies. In the past, I operated airspace control of aircraft in the air, and everything was recorded. Everything was logged and lost. But no one used it, except when something was done wrong and you should go back to see who had made the mistake in this case. No one reacted to it, because you have to stand for your actions, whether it's here or there in society. But someone doesn't want to. What was the starting point, at least for the Right when we started negotiating about this, was that we should get legislation to meet the needs of Norway. So come in the second phase: does this data storage directive satisfy? Yes, it did. Perhaps it was a bit of a shame, when we now hear that the Minister of Transport said they were also interested in getting a Norwegian law, but when the satisfied data storage directive, it was not that good anymore. So that might have been a little bit of a shame. But at least we have come to a law that we agree with. The and says freedom. Yes, freedom to do something wrong, that's what it has to be. And then we've heard that this costs a lot. I started with encryption already in 1966. Then it was complicated, then it cost a lot. Today, encryption is a very reasonable matter. So there's almost one suspicion here: when the Department of Transport says this is going to be very expensive, we're wondering where this information comes from.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2469	I want to use my article in this debate to talk about what for me is crucial in the matter of whether Norway is going to implement the Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law. First, in Norway, we're innocent until the opposite is proven. I think it's going to be a mistake to store traffic data from every citizen on the assumption that any one of us can do something criminal in the future, and that this will have to secure possible evidence. The second is the question of whether one can be confident that private and important information about one’s self is certain to be exploited by the unsolicited. I think it is serious that the Right Party and the Labour Party are in favour of introducing an EU directive like this without compromising the risk of misuse of the stored information. And then I'm not necessarily the most concerned about the state and the police doing it. But there are other environments and individuals that might be interested in digging in information, and no system is dense. The third thing I want to mention is the possibility that the criminals have of avoiding their communication being stored. Traffic data for ordinary people is easy to store. But those with unlawful intentions will always find ways to communicate that did not allow themselves to be stored. The fact that there are so few issues that are solved using traffic data — after all — may indicate that this is exactly what is happening. Then I want to move on to the principle, to something as fundamental as privacy and freedom of expression. It's about the right to live our lives free of surveillance and the right to move and express ourselves freely. To have this right, we need to have confidence that what we say, and the communication we have for us, can't be abused. So, are people most free to communicate with others if we do not trust that stored traffic data will be secure against abuse? The source protection system is relevant in this way. The rule of law is not worthy of citizens not being able to tip police and journalists without being concerned about being revealed as a source. I fear that there will be significantly fewer tips in the future, and that the Data Storage Directive will prevent you from witnessing events and individuals with important information, not afraid to report. Technology is developing as we know it all the time, and it's very good at it. When technological developments in many areas are ahead of the development of the law, we must have a conscious hold on what kind of use we should allow and not on technological innovations. We must dare to say no. It's not all the technology that makes possible that actually brings us and society forward. The party in the privacy alliance, of which the Center Party is part, wants to set some limits. We want developments to be socially useful, and not a threat to fundamental values such as freedom of expression, freedom of movement and privacy. The Data Storage Directive is such a threat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2486	I thought I would follow up a few enquiries from Sjelmo Nordås, Schlagsvold Vedum, Hareide and Hoksrud, which seem that the proceedings in this case have been irresponsible, in order to use their words. Then it is good to know that you have followed the ordinary procedure, and there are no cases as far as this period that you have spent as much time on as this one. The proposition was delivered last December. Four months later, we will deal with the matter and have the debate. Locked positions have existed long before the government delivered its proposition. There has been a broad consultation – two days of consultation. We had the first disagreement in the committee on 14 January, where the timetable was set, and the minority wanted this to last for once in the middle of May. It was a long time before the minority knew anything about the agreement that was in place, on which they now believe they have had too little time. Subsequently, the proposal for a postponement has not been included in the Committee. There has been unanimity for the further case management and timetable. In addition, there have been conversations with all parties, and there have been negotiations with all parties. In February and March now, all parties have been familiar with what has been the Right's overall package, and have thus had a good opportunity to prepare for what might be a possible content, and a most likely content – I can say – that I hope, in what is now in the negotiated agreement. Yes, there were three postponements of time limits for consideration of the matter in the committee. They were unanimous. It was notified by my side that there could be a postponement, with short notices, and there was no other suggestion that you should not follow it. So it was unanimous. In addition, the minority in the Committee, not for the advancement itself, wished that there were in particular two letters from the Ministry of Transport, which were the two most recent annexes submitted to the Committee, which were to follow the case in Stortingen, while the majority thought that all the hearing opinions and their opinions should be on the matter and be informed where it was to be found, including where it could be found. online. So a little visit to the Left and Skei Grande, who is very concerned that she would rather strengthen the police. I would like to say that this is a good measure that the Right would like to be included in, and that we have certainly proposed on several occasions when we have discussed the budget. But there is no contradiction between strengthening the police and ensuring that they also have the necessary tools.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2497	The Data Storage Directive violates previous legal principles by storing contact between people who are not suspected of anything in case they – or we – should be suspected at a later stage. This is to put aside the democratic rule of law that everyone is innocent until the opposite is proven. This leads to something completely new in Norwegian case law. Not only does the Data Storage Directive lead to a major step into a monitoring society, as the Data Protection Authority describes it, but it also means crossing a fundamental boundary of the legal state itself. The Labour Party and the Right have, through today’s debate and also over the past week, tried to present the monitoring agreement between them as positive in relation to data protection measures. It's simply not to believe. That story cannot be written on the Right and the Workers' Party can't get away with it. Because it's the monitoring parties Right and Workers' Party that are now making sure that we move a step closer to the surveillance society. And it is the Right Party and the Labour Party that are now introducing a new principle in Norway: we are all suspected. One would almost think that the Right Party and the Workers' Party have changed their view of what it means to be Norwegian – from the fact that it is typical Norwegian to be good, to the fact that it is typical Norwegian to be suspected. The right could negotiate with the privacy alliance. They wouldn't. But the offer was on the table; the opportunity was there. Proposals for a series of measures were presented to the Right, which well balanced the fight against crime against privacy. But we didn't get away. Now we have an agreement between the Right and the Workers' Party that contains several uncertain moments. The Government itself states in its replies to the Storting that the proposals contained in the agreement are ‘very challenging to implement’. The only thing we know for sure is that we're being more monitored here. Privacy is under pressure and new technologies allow for increased surveillance. New technologies always provide new opportunities. But it is up to the politicians – it is our job in this room – to limit technology when there are conflicts of interest between privacy and the rule of law. The Data Storage Directive changes current practice, from a limited storage option for billing purposes to a mandatory storage of traffic data over a long period of time. This is a big step, a principal step. It's a step I don't want to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2510	Democracy is characterised, inter alia, by: the fact that citizens control the State and not the other way around. It is an important role for us politicians to play in ensuring that balance. Privacy will always be under pressure. New technologies will create new conflicts and new opportunities for monitoring. That is when, as politicians, we have a responsibility to be involved and set limits, when a new technology creates conflicts with another important principle, such as: privacy and the rule of law. The Data Storage Directive requires the State to store all traffic data, telephony and Internet usage. The storage of data to the extent required by the Directive means that the authorities carry out systematic and continuous screening of the use of what we are saying by the whole population is everyday means of communication. The intervention in the private situation of the population is very significant, and the risk of abuse is high. It challenges established rights such as: the press's source protection. There is a theoretical discussion about whether or not to call the monitoring rules of the Directive. In any case, the Directive will result in a significantly higher level of information on us than in the past and without suspicion of criminal offences justifying this storage. It may seem that the Workers' Party and the Right want a state in which the individual is subordinate to the state's need for knowledge and control of individuals, a kind of thought that all the problems can be solved by a large collection and storage of personal data. When technology makes this possible, as politicians, we need to be involved in setting limits to protect important principles of human rights. The sharp increase in the recording of individual data also leads to a significant risk of misuse. We have seen in many cases that seemingly safe information is going on, and we cannot be so naive that we do not take into account that this can happen in this case as well. Then you can only imagine the kind of widespread consequences it will have for fundamental principles such as the right to privacy and freedom of expression. Several representatives from the Labour Party have today referred to the position of the police in the matter. Yes, if you're going to follow that argument, there are hardly enough limits to how far we're going in the surveillance. There is a reason why poachers and the police do not have the same role and the same tasks, and there are good reasons why the police are not going to lead what is needed and what is not. It may seem that the Right Party and the Workers' Party do not see the width and consequences of what they now want to go in for, but with the urgency they have to get the matter through in the Stortinget, it does not seem that they are interested in getting that knowledge either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2527	The introduction of the Data Storage Directive is nothing more than a massive mistrust of the population of Norway. I think it is a pity that the data-storage directive's followers are so concerned about faking boiler rings that they do not see them breaking with fundamental principles in the relationship between authorities and citizens: monitoring and investigation should be based on suspicion. We are the big politicians, the elected people, and the government that is going to ask for trust from our people. It is not the people who should ask for trust from the state. This must be the guiding principle of a democratic rule of law. The Data Storage Directive is turning the whole issue upside down. It shall no longer be necessary to focus on the fight against crime. All citizens are now to be regarded as potential criminals at the outset. I don't just think this is a complete short cut. I just think it's hair-removing. To me, this is like a cold gust from the past that reminds me of how some historical states we don't like to compare with, nor did they trust their people. It reminds me more of the logic of a police state. The police can already have access to data communications today when they consider this to be important for investigations into specific issues. The PST is also responsible for continuous surveillance, regardless of the suspicion that people you believe might harm the national security. Telecommunications companies must have a right to storage already today, and if more of them seem to have forgotten it. And we have freedom of storage and erasure against the companies. The Data Storage Directive is going to be the opposite. Then there will be a storage obligation and a deletion ban for six months or possibly 12 months, as the EU decides, if I understood the case rapporteur correctly. All citizens shall be considered as potential cellars. If we meet physically or on Skype, there is, at least for the time being, no one who requires this to be logged. The whole thing is a massive breach of trust between citizens and the state. It cannot be justified by pushing the fight against crime in front of it. Interprets and other cellar rings will easily avoid the storage of data. It's completely incomprehensible and illogical to me. It's kind of like the old story about the father who went to be so strict. He practiced corporal punishment and was not so careful whether the dash that was given was fair as to whether the children had done anything wrong or not. Because if they hadn't done anything wrong, they would probably do it, as he said. I think several of us think it's a little special practice, but that's roughly equivalent to the logic of the case today. If we haven't done anything wrong, we're going to do it, and that's why we all have to be monitored. The rapporteur said that the introduction of the Data Storage Directive is a paradigm shift. The representative of Schou is quite right about that. That this happens with wide-open eyes, this makes the paradigm shift extra evil.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2554	I had my work in the Norwegian press from the end of the 1960s to the beginning of the 1980s, i.e. at a time when we had to expect that A-press journalists' communication with the outside world with the modest means of communication of the time was monitored. The same was true of many of those on the left-hand side of Norwegian policy. This irregular activity ended with the Lund Commission in the 1990s – at least we got control systems and control bodies that are now supervising our secret services. In this way, I understand the skepticism and turmoil that many people feel when we introduce legal rules that make electronic communications, which have become an increasingly important part of our everyday lives, a time is stored, even though it is not the content of this communication, but traffic data that we are talking about. However, such data is already stored. I am not sure at all that it always happens under reassuring conditions. Just because I'm concerned with privacy, precisely because we need an international code that regulates access to such data, and that reduces the possibility of such data being compromised, I am in favour of the implementation of the Data Storage Directive in Norwegian law. It is high time that we regulate police access to traffic data, and that we demand a high level of criminality and judicial decision. It is high time that the obligation to delete was introduced, that the supervisory authority of the Data Protection Authority was strengthened, and that we got clearer rules on data storage and protection. When we move on to Karl Johan, from Stortinget down to Oslo S, we are followed by camera eyes all the way. When I drove from Nøtterøy to Oslo today, I passed four toll stations. The Accounting Act determines the retention period for this type of data, and they are available to the police in close proximity at any time when the police need them. When I took out money from the ATM in the Stortingets lobby today, the transaction was registered. In the online bank, my transactions have been available on the Internet for several years. I am not primarily concerned about police access to such information as part of the clarification of serious crimes. On the other hand, it may be extremely unpleasant for unauthorised access to such data. The press organisations are concerned with source protection, and that's good. The protection of sources is essential for all activities in the press. That is why I am very pleased that we are now getting a legalization of the source protection – finally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2571	Why is this implementation being implemented today for which the majority is in favour? We're not doing this because we're going to make the most of the trouble and destroy privacy. We do it because it's appropriate, to get a better society to live in, and to focus on the increasing and cross-border crime. Then we also have to take care of the evidence. Then we have to do it in a proper, proper and tidy way. The international community is developing. Unfortunately, there is a trend on the crime side that is deeply regrettable. But we must be prepared for this development. We must take our countermeasures, so that this international crime does not develop more than it has already done. Then traffic data is very important. Traffic data and not the contents themselves are to be stored. I must admit that I am somewhat surprised at the argument of the Progress Party tonight, given what they have been doing in previous debates. I just want to remind the Progress Party of one thing: The Bondevik government introduced space listening as a prevention measure. The Bondevik government did. Knut Storberget intervened when he became the Minister of Justice and stopped this so-called preventive space listening. Why did the Minister of Justice do that? Yes, because, among other things, The Methodological Control Committee stated that this was strongly contrary to the Constitution. It was very important. At that time, the party criticised the government for listening to the Methodological Control Committee, which said it was unconstitutional. The progressing party would continue to maintain space snooping. Where is the argument for the Progress Party today? There you change the argumentation by weather and wind. The second thing I also think is very important in this case is that we also have to meet our international obligations. There is cooperation across Europe to do this in a proper, tidy and proper way, including in the police. It should have taken place when there are 30 countries that want to introduce the directive – there are also major discussions, as here today – that Norway is standing outside and saying: we are not going to be involved in this in Norway. Norway will be a haven for criminals. I don't think that's the wisest thing to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2587	The introduction of the Data Storage Directive also has an economic side, a side of the Directive which is so far little illuminated in Norwegian context. Following questions from members of the Committee on Transport and Communications, neither the Ministry of Transport nor the Ministry of Justice could respond to the budgetary implications of the implementation of the Data Storage Directive on the basis of short deadlines. In Sweden, they have taken time to examine the impact and costs of the Data Storage Directive. An analysis carried out by the telecoms companies' professional organisation in Stockholm shows that it will cost approx. Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bnth, Bn, Bnt, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, Bn, In addition, an annual operating cost of 364 million is added. Swedish krona. The Norwegian model of a data storage directive is likely to be very similar to the Swedish proposal. I hardly think that the Right Party and the Workers' Party intend to take that cost at the expense of the state. This means that the costs are borne by the telecommunications operators. Telecom operators do not have funds of their own to cover the costs, so that the costs are borne by the customers. In practice, it means that you and I are going to pay for the storage of data. The costs that will be incurred by each telecommunications provider will require equal technology and requirements, whether they have 1000 or 100000 customers. It will once again weaken small operators and not stimulate competition in the telecommunications market. The data industry refers to the fact that, as it now exists, the Directive is expensive, poor and difficult to implement. ICT Norway questions whether it will at all be possible to introduce the requirements set for encryption and that it will only increase costs and not increase security. I record that the Right Party and the Labour Party have committed themselves to voting in favour of the budgetary consequences of introducing the Data Storage Directive, without at all taking over the economic consequences. It appears that the Data Storage Directive should be introduced at any cost.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2602	More than 15 exceptions have been made to the rule of at least four years of criminal penalties for obtaining data — including the collection of secret information, which has been mentioned in a few lines earlier today. This means that the much more severe restrictions on data storage that the Right Party and the Working Party boast have to give up when the Data Storage Directive is really effective. It's a rather inconvenient logic, and I'll give you an example of why it doesn't hold the goal: In 1977, journalist Ivar Johansen gathered information about the secret services in Norway. This was at a time when the secret services operated well beyond their mandate, as the Lund Commission later confirmed. They committed demonstrably gross crimes. Nevertheless, journalist Ivar Johansen was convicted of violation of paragraphs 90 and 91a of the Criminal Code. Ivar Johansen was a journalist. He collected information on highly critical conditions in the Norwegian state power. Had the Data Storage Directive been in place in 1977, the Norwegian government would have free access to obtain full information on Johansen’s contact with its sources. The working party and the right must claim that they do not weaken the source protection by doing this, but they do. And they have such a bad conscience for this that they have put in between themselves a section on restrictions on access to space listening editorials. This is probably an example of the fact that the data-storage directive's followers later on, as if they did not understand the difference between the space interception of suspected people and the storage of data on all. It's depressing to listen to, and to be honest, it's quite disappointing. I am disappointed that, later on, you see as if you don't see the difference between the deletion obligation and the storage obligation. I am disappointed that one is willing to treat the tension between privacy and crime control as non-existent – and that in a legal society in which we usually assume an innocent presumption that was invented several hundred years ago. And I'm disappointed that the majority of the population uses the opportunity to apply different rules and other legal principles because today we've invented and used the Internet. I think that is a reason why no one, as far as I am aware of the history of the Storting, has proposed to store all correspondence: Who sends letters to whom? Where are you when you send the letter? How much does the letter weigh? The reason why it says itself -- no one would think about it. But that such a proposal would contribute to the fight against crime, which is the big argument today, there can be no doubt about it. It only shows that the majority in this room for eight hours – when this debate will be over – have managed to pretend that they do not understand what the objection to the Data Storage Directive really is. There should be reason to expect better from an upward growth rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2611	For the Workers' Party, the fight against serious crime and the strengthening of privacy is important. Therefore, we will introduce the Data Storage Directive, DLD. This is not about monitoring, but about the storage and deletion of electronic traffic data. And it's the electronic traffic to be stored, not the contents of it. Traffic data from electronic communications will henceforth be stored on the basis of commercial considerations, billing, to be stored out of social interest, simply to fight crime. Traffic data are important tests in criminal matters. Baneheia and Nokas saka are examples of criminal cases where police access to this type of data was decisive for clarification. An internal investigation in the police of 1450 positive prosecutions revealed that traffic data were of great significance for the investigation of killings, bodily injury with death in succession, serious drug cases, gross gangsters, sentencing and sexual assaults against children. DLD is also about privacy. It is important to prevent terrorism, identity theft, child exploitation, and important for the fight against crime. Not long ago, the police received tips about a father who was operating on the Internet for his seven-year-old daughter. The father informed me that he himself abused the daughter, added three images, and provided an e-mail address. When the police received the information, the information was deleted from the Internet service provider, in line with the current storage rules. Therefore, it is so important to have extended storage time. But this must be balanced with strict access rules, which are also subject to judicial control. The main rule is that traffic data can only be provided to the police in cases where there are grounds for suspecting criminal offences that could lead to prison for four years or more. With the agreement that has now been negotiated between the Right Party and the Labour Party, which we are today invited to adopt, privacy will also be even stronger, even for those of us who are not suspected of criminal acts with a high criminal record.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2624	I have a desire to comment on some issues that have been raised in the debate. The minority is critical of the examination of the directive and of the progress we have had in the transport committee in this matter. Like the rapporteur, I would like to reject the fact that there has been unfair treatment. There are few issues that have been so carefully assessed and debated as just the question of the implementation of the Data Storage Directive. And so it happened for a long time before the proposition was presented to the Stortinget and in retrospect. On 10 December last year, the government presented its proposal to the Stortinget. That means that the bill has been in the Storting for four months. On 18 January, progress was made at the committee meeting and the rapporteur explained the process along the way and that there would probably be short deadlines at the end. That's not the way it works, among other things. has been claimed by the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Hareide, that the minority was given only 15 minutes to hold the preliminary meeting of the Committee. It had been briefed that, if appropriate, extraordinary committee meetings would be held in line with the usual practice of Stortinget. The provisional delivery meeting was also held on the day following to meet the needs of the minority. This is not an isolated case — the same type of procedures were, for example: followed in the context of the proceedings of the pediatric conciliation. Then I would like to comment on the situation in the Czech Republic and Germany, which has been brought forward. I need to correct some of the things that have been said about it. The German and Czech Constitutional Courts have come to the conclusion that the implementation of the directive was contrary to the Constitution. The Courts have pointed to matters that have been important for us to take care of in the legislative proposal that has been put forward. They have pointed to a lack of judicial control. We've taken care of that. They have pointed out that there is no requirement for a criminal framework. It's taken care of. The German Constitutional Court also pointed to the need for private storage. This has also been borne out by our proposal, where we are just saying that we want a decentralised solution, in order to take care of both security and privacy considerations. So the concern raised by these two courts, I feel protected by the bill. So many people ask why we have such a hurry, whether it's because we're pressured by the EU. Yes, we are in a hurry, but it has nothing to do with the EU. Today, in this debate, countless examples of issues that cannot be investigated by the police due to a lack of Norwegian legislation have been cited. Now we ensure that we get Norwegian legislation in place, and I feel that the majority is now taking responsibility for ensuring a law that also ensures conditions that the minority have been involved in, such as the increased storage of IP addresses, such as the strengthening of privacy. That is the responsibility of the majority. This is the important thing, and this is urgent for us to get in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2637	I would also like to comment on a little of what has emerged in the debate today. Just talking about strengthening privacy many times enough, the Workers' Party and the Right actually think that's what we're doing. But then someone has to come and tell me how to strengthen privacy by following everything I do on the phone and on the Internet. I don't get it. It may sound like the Internet came to Norway yesterday, when we hear the representative Haugli, since it is now going to be so good for the police and help them in terms of online crime. But I have actually surfed the web since 1995, and from 1995 to today, serious online crime cases have been solved very many times – completely without a directive. And then you talk about privacy. In the Member State of Denmark, for example, an estimated 15 000 storage units per person have been stored. There were 100000 storage units per person per year. In another EU Member State, four public bodies were required to have access to the stored material. It turned out after a few years that 181 public authorities had access to stored material. So we know that personal data has been sold and misused after the directive was introduced. When it comes to the suppliers responsible for the storage, this means that it is not just one who handles the stored information. One of them said that the stored information disappeared into a black hole. It's not like that, the information is stored and can be retrieved from those who serve the stored documents. The representative of Kolberg said that the Progress Party is not involved in technological development. But with all due respect, the Workers' Party will introduce the Data Storage Directive and the DAB radio and can hardly be claimed to follow it. Neatly, it is also to believe that encrypted information remains secret. The top five minutes it takes to decode such information. Norway's population has to be monitored, but not enough – we have to pay for it too!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2652	I must say that, after a long debate in which there is no longer much new, we can eventually conclude that the debate is about criticising the Labour Party and the Right without making so many own proposals. There's a couple of things I'd like to catch up to. One is that from several of the minority speakers there is a reference to a letter from the government. One of these letters is a letter from the Ministry of Transport containing a total of 12 answers to questions. One question to the Council of State is: ‘Did the Ministry consider waiting for the introduction of DLD in Norway to the revised Data Protection Act to be available in Norway?’ Several in the minority have said that it is better to postpone this and get back to it. Then the Council of State answers: ‘I am of the opinion that Norway should not introduce DLD. I believe this is independent from the EU's data protection law review.' Then I ask myself, is that the government's view? No, this is the vision of the Ministry of Transport, and the vision of the Meltveit Kleppa. I have to spend my time clarifying, as I unfortunately got hurt to be accused of lying from the Storting Chair. It's a pretty tough accusation, so I'm going to try to clear it up. I hope it doesn't repeat itself. I pointed to the small double morality of the Progress Party in this, when they have their own national government meeting and adopt things for asylum seekers weighed up against what we are dealing with here today. Here I stand with an excerpt from the VG where the party's spokesman for asylum and immigration policy, Amundsen, says that the Progress Party will DNA-register all asylum seekers to detect sibling childhood and polycony, as well as to combat terrorism. In the same meeting, a mandatory DNA profile was also adopted for all criminals. So these are pure quotes. I must also take a last quote, which is in the setting available in Stortinget today. I am the first to agree that it is very unfortunate to have to refer from the setting, which should be obvious to everyone. But here's the comment from the Progress Party: ‘The Progress Party’s bill opened up a DNA test in any foreign case where it is necessary to establish whether there is a family relationship and Section 90 established that photographs, fingerprints and DNA profiles are to be taken in connection with a number of other foreign matters. These DNA profiles shall be stored in a national DNA register which shall also be used in connection with, inter alia, crime control.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2678	When I read about the data storage directive for the first time, I got a little nuance on my back. I come from a state where the storage of information about human activity causes a lot of people to freeze on their backs – a state governed by a party that defines itself away from the idea of individual freedom, individual rights and duties, individual responsibility, and which is thus usually out of respect for privacy. That's why I have a basic scepticism for words like data storage and stuff. We have heard several times today the concept of ‘monitoring’ being used. I also have a basic scepticism for monitoring, but in this case I must actually be allowed to file that it is wrong. What we are talking about today – this type of data storage – is therefore, in my opinion, not monitoring. Some of the recordings that have arrived today must be allowed to characterize as a little bit to the side of the goal. I will refrain from commenting further. I will also refrain from commenting on the doubts that have been raised as to whether the Workers' Party was to trust in this matter. There are parties that have a lot better knowledge of whether the Workers' Party is to trust than what the Right has, so we don't have to comment much. However, I would like to know that it is a pleasure to listen to all the representatives who have read on the Right Programme in this matter, and with such patos making quotes with politics they otherwise spend a lot of energy on and work against and vote down in this Chamber. My main appeal against the Directive is to store communication data with prevention and potential needs as justification. I have been faced with a fundamental scepticism and opposition to the EU data storage directive. At the same time, I record that the arguments for storage are many. It is not difficult to understand that the police are struggling to find tracks that have been deleted and that this may be important information in complicated investigations. Nor is it difficult for me to understand that we need a national law to meet today’s need for the processing of communication data. So the reason for looking for the good compromises is absolutely present. For the Right, this has been a matter of privacy. There has also been a question that goes much, much deeper than just the Data Storage Directive. That is why we have taken the aim of designing a national law for the processing of electronic data. It is our goal to strengthen privacy while providing the police with an effective tool to combat crime. The legislation shall regulate the storage, securing, and – equally important – the deletion of data. Communication data shall be encrypted and access to communication data shall be regulated by judicial review and any use of data shall be tracked and logged. So I'm going to know if anyone needs to use my communication data. The source protection of the press shall be ensured and the penalties shall be high in order to obtain the data. All these are moments that have not had a satisfactory law until now. This is also my reason for swallowing the compromise, swallowing the data storage directive and agreeing to adopt a law that guarantees privacy and ensures crime prevention in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2695	The agreement between the Labour Party and the Right, which constitutes a majority proposal today, provides a good balance between privacy and the possibility of combating serious crime. The representative, Mr Woldseth, said quite early in the debate today that it was very inconceivable from the supporters of the majority proposal and the data storage directive. To that I have the following to say: Someone should probably cool down a couple of dots. It shows the greatest extent of the debate here today. I have collected some statements and some characteristics that I thought I would go through: the surveillance alliance, the surveillance cameras, the surveillance parties. That's how we've been characterised here, we're followers of the majority proposal. The consequences of the proposal have been characterised as: a cold gust of the past; the logic of a police state; it is typically Norwegian to be suspected; it should lead to a colder and less solidarity society; everyone should be suspected; the biggest surveillance of Norway's history; children and youth should be monitored as if they were criminals; everyone should be monitored; criminalise an entire nation; the surveillance society; the police state; a malicious system. Finally, but not least: a comparison with the former Eastern bloc countries and then the observatory organisations – monitoring organisations – Stasi, KGB and Securitate in Romania. I don't think this debate deserves the kind of arguments or the scare image that someone here is trying to create. The key word in this debate should be respect. I as a follower have at least full respect for what the opponent had to think, but then I expect the same respect back.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2707	Technological development creates new challenges. When the Labour Party today says yes to the Data Storage Directive, it is because we need it – not because the EU asks us to do so. Since the mid-1990s, police have used communication data in the investigation of serious criminal cases, in order to solve crime and prevent new criminal acts. It was traffic data that, in its time, contributed to the clarification of the Baneheia-Drapa and the Novas-ranet. Thereafter, the law will ensure important data to investigate serious crime by introducing an obligation to store data that says something about who has communicated with who, where the communication has taken place, when and how. So the content of the communication shouldn't be saved. When some forces have tried to create such an impression, I feel it is important to specify it in this room as well: the content of the communication should not be stored. We leave a lot of electronic trace today, I want to mention here the use of payment cards. I have experienced getting a phone call from the bank where they ask if I have just been to Cambodia because my card was used there. The fact that a regular bank proposal can be followed on my movements is certainly a greater interference with privacy than the right to know who I have had telephone contact with after judicial review. Because of privacy, it has been important for us to ensure that personal information is collected and processed only when necessary, and that it is not used for purposes other than those for which it is collected. The use of traffic data in police investigations has increased as mobile phones are used. This has happened without the Storting setting the necessary limits and limits for the use of data. By amending Norwegian law and thus implementing the Data Storage Directive, we are now laying down a clear framework for the use of traffic data, including for the storage and deletion of these data. This is important for the Workers' Party. A range of public representations, including the Vulnerability Selection, the Police Methodology Selection and the Methodological Control Selection, have highlighted the importance of data storage – the same has a comprehensive police environment. The progress party has previously wanted to appear as a law-and-order party. I therefore think it is surprising that they are considering the police's assessments. What is it that the Progress Party knows, that the police and the selections have not got? And what about their own 2005 proposals to impose on network providers and online providers twelve months of traffic data storage, and it altogether without judicial control and high penalties, erasure, etc.? International crime requires cross-border solutions. The benefits of implementing the Directive are thus revealed. By saying yes to the Data Storage Directive, we ensure that the police in Norway have the same legislation to stick to as the rest of Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2726	I think the posts of the government council Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa were very interesting, because she tore up what could have been an alternative to a national law. She said it should ensure police access to the data. This means that we had to have a storage obligation, because we could not leave 243 different suppliers how to store them, how long and whether to store them. She said you should have a delete obligation. This would ensure that it was not misused and that IP addresses would be stored any longer. And today's access rules were to be tightened up, as it is in the law that is now being passed. I think this was interesting, and it actually pulls away the carpet under very many of the powerful claims that are partly in the setting and partly used here in the hall today. It's a shame you didn't draw up that proposal, so you had two alternatives to discuss from. Because we are now adopting a national law, which is within the framework of the data storage directive, we can also agree to implement the Directive in the EEA Agreement. So the representative asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs to confirm an understanding of the so-called reservation law of the EEA Agreement. I am a little uncertain about what was the starting point for it, but since I touched on it in my post, I would just like to repeat that the term ‘reservation’ or ‘veto’ is not used in the EEA Agreement, but there is an indirect possibility arising from Article 102, where it says: ‘The Contracting Parties shall endeavour to reach agreement on matters relevant to this Agreement. In particular, the EEA Committee shall endeavour to find a mutually acceptable solution where a serious problem arises in an area within the competence of the legislative authority of the EFTA States.’;» That is what I believe creates this possibility of not implementing if the decision taken in the EU countries leads to serious situations in Norway or in one of the other EFTA countries because we have simply not been involved in the decision and there have been no opportunities to take account of our particular circumstances. Legally, this hall determines whether such a situation can arise – there is no doubt about it. But political responses will be different if we have what can be called ‘substantial reasons’ for requiring changes or whether they are purely political, which I believe would be the case with the Data Storage Directive, where the relationship, balance between privacy considerations and broader considerations can hardly be said to be different in Norway than in our neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2742	I have spent the weekend at No for EU event, first a municipal conference and then a Council meeting. Then there will be a lot of directive talk. It will be when No to EU citizens meet by day, because the directives are in line to be embraced, at least not rejected, by us here in Norway. What we are discussing No to Europeans, and probably often somewhat disagreed about, is why the political majority in the United Kingdom so consistently chooses to bow down and thank this directive – a little in contrast to much other immigration. Is the fear or, if so, the awe of the EU the cause, or is the content of these directives the persuasion of which is so persuasive? I believe that, on the no side, we are a little too quick to apologize to these yes-to-directive parties that they are probably at the heart of the issue, and that they do not like much of the content of the agency directive, the media directive, the postal directive, the health directive, etc. No, they're for. When we in Norway receive them quickly and effectively and put them into practice, preferably even stronger, stronger and faster than the EU’s seas, it is precisely because they have a policy for which the majority in Norway is responsible. Today's debate shows this in a good way: where the European Union still has exciting, difficult internal debates and signals a lot of doubt and faith, the majority in this Chamber is convinced that this is the right thing to do, and it will be implemented quickly. It's actually to look at as a big civilisation project, almost a "Save Our Civilization" project. In fact, we have now also heard from Anne Marit Bjørnfacen that this is why a number of constitutional courts in the European Union are now having problems, including: in the course of implementation, the Right Party and the Working Party have been able to resolve within a few days. You the world so lucky they are, among other things. these constitutional courts, where the answer to the EU’s implementation problems lies in the agreement negotiated here. I think this is a sad day. I mean, it's ethically doubtful what's going on. It's economically unwise, and not least it's criminally naive to think that that way, by making everyone suspect, we can get rid of serious crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2755	We politicians have a duty to think about the consequences of what we adopt. The following of what this House decides must be carefully considered: how things can be used and abused, and whether what we achieve by making decisions here in the Chamber is proportionate to the disadvantages it imposes on the Norwegian people. Here we have one thing in which I believe that the majority will impose disadvantages on the Norwegian people that are not in proportion to what you actually achieve. Representatives from the Labour Party and the Right have said from this pulpit: I have nothing to hide. People must be able to handle their actions. But if you really wanted to take the consequences of that, the content should also be stored. Then it doesn't do anything, and it would make it even easier for the police to investigate and solve things. If you really wanted to be able to take everybody for what they do at any time, we should actually be equipped with GPS transmitters. Then you could actually have logged who was there. With the data storage directive we are now receiving, I am quite concerned because it will often be very easy to exploit. You can actually plant the alibi by sending your cell phone with someone who's in a completely different place than where the crime happens. There are so many things that can be used and abused in this case that I think it is important that we, as politicians, stop and ask ourselves if this is worth it. Several of those who want to introduce the Data Storage Directive have said that we have many other records that record things: DNA registers, toll registers, phone registers, bank registers, health records, and everyone is created for good purpose. But it has also made us, as a society, extremely vulnerable to abuse and to monitoring. Infringements of today's legislation cannot be used as an argument that it will now be safe to introduce this data storage directive register, since it will be even more vulnerable if this is violated in new cases when this register is introduced. I was worried when I heard the Council of State Aasrud say that she thought that this debate has made no telecommunications companies now say that they do not know about the legislation. If it is true that the debate on the Data Storage Directive is intended to ensure that telecommunications operators actually comply with the legislation, I am particularly concerned. Aasrud also showed in a string shift here today a possible introduction of encryption. It also worries me that, in addition, the content can be open. Then I need to make an explanation of vote. –
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2768	Then the representative will have to redraw, because speaking time is now over, and the next speaker will have the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2771	So far out in a long debate I will take the opportunity to make some considerations and comments. Firstly, I would just like to repeat what the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party said earlier today: the Labour Party is in favour of the Data Storage Directive, not because it is an EU directive, but because we agree with the aim of storing traffic data to combat crime in order to provide the police with an important tool. Secondly, the Working Party is concerned with privacy, and we believe that in the proposal we are now dealing with, privacy is strengthened in relation to today's practice, and that we have found a good balance between storage, that is. anti-crime and privacy. Thirdly, it is well documented that access to traffic data is an important tool for the police and that it works. Cripos said the following in the hearing of the Transport Committee: As far as Kripos' needs are concerned, most of our cases depend entirely on stored data. For example: To investigate drug offences, the aim is to detect the device behind them. There are sellers behind the couriers who never take drugs themselves, and who can only be detected if communication between them and cures is detected. Since most research in its nature is reactive, this requires data storage — and not freezing. At the hearing in the committee, the National Advocate General said that at the State Attorney's Office, we decide on the issue of all the most serious criminal cases in the country. We have experience with traffic data 15-20 years back in time. It is quite reassuring to note that persons with limited insight into the day-to-day practice related to the resolution and correction of criminal cases express themselves on the need for traffic data. It is simply beyond doubt that such information has had a major — even decisive — impact on a wide range of serious issues, including killings, serious sexual crimes, ransacks and drug crime. In addition, the national lawyer said: there are no alternatives that can replace traffic data. The monitoring society was talking about it. There is a special definition of ‘monitoring’ that we do not agree with. Let me remind you that no matter what we adopt here today, the telecom companies will continue to store information about who we call, how long we talk, and about who we send SMS to. And this can be delivered today without a court order. There seems to be a good minority — this is not a problem for privacy — while, for social reasons, with strict restrictions, which are included in the majority proposal, data protection issues, lead to a monitoring society and to a police state. Get it, whoever wants it. I can't understand it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2788	What surprises me a little after listening to the debate all day is that there are no concerns in the Right and the Labour Party at all – not at all. I find that, with all due respect, strange. And that in the same breath you claim that you need to strengthen privacy by storing all telecommunications – yes, everyone understands that is completely impossible. Of course, everything in the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right that is about to strengthen privacy could have been done without implementing the Data Storage Directive – which is monitoring. Even the Minister of Justice has confirmed earlier today that it is monitoring, according to the computer science professionals who have defined it as being. So many people ask the question: what is the Progress Party and the other parties that are now opposed know, as the police don't know, because the police are now so violent after getting this Data Storage Directive? What is it the Workers' Party, the Right and the Police know, that the majority don't know? For a majority, the Data Storage Directive is opposed. After all, the party of progress is not alone, or SV, the Central Party or the Christian People's Party. We're not alone. The majority of the hearing bodies are also opposed. All the youth parties are against it. Data surveillance is against. What is the Labour Party, the Right and the Police know that we belong to the majority of the country, don't know? That's the question you're asking. I find it interesting to go back to 2005, as you trust the police so blindly – and jump when the police say hope. That was when Stortinget was going to consider extended space listening and telephone interception. What was the argument from the police at that time? Here are the police hearings at that time: they simply asked for more space listening and phone listening, because it didn't help to fight crime by monitoring phones and registering it. It is clear from the police's statements: ‘Phone calls are not used in the planning of organised crime. The participants in the networks are fully aware of not using telephones for such calls. Often it is also that there are very few people who know the whole of the plan’, etc. The police wanted space listening and telephoning to register teletraffic traffic, because the criminals adapted to the everyday routine that the police were working from.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2802	I took the floor to comment on some of the posts that have been held earlier today. And I want to say that I think some of them have been over the edge in terms of what others have been described from – social perspective and other things. But some posts have contained some quite good confessions. Among other things, Per Sandberg acknowledged that if it wasn't for commercial reasons to collect the data that the police are accessing today, he would have been to regulate it – given that the police needed it. I think many others would reflect on that, because there's a little bit of our reflection in the Right. We've been thinking about it: Does it mean that these data, which is crucial for detecting crime today, are only available because it is of commercial interest for telecommunications companies to store such information, that this is a trifle because there is already a register – or is it important that society ensures that these data exist? Here we drew a conclusion: yes, we need to regulate, and we need to let crime prevention be a consideration, also because we shouldn't run if the systems of what's commercially interesting to store change over time, and so we don't get access to this. In addition, in the discussion we have had here about instruments, no one has mentioned that perhaps the most important data acquisition in the big and heavy cases is the base and location information, which is today a side-by-side consideration that has not been specifically regulated, nor does the five parties that say they are going to vote against today have any regulation of, other than as a consequence of anything else. We believe that it is important to put this in place, because we have perhaps first and foremost seen that it is used to cancel participation in criminal activity, and that it has been proven in the sentence that it is one of the most important to be likely to be present and participate in crime – that it is possible to arrive at it. The other thing I would like to comment on is the press source protection. The right has wanted to strengthen the press's source protection because we have seen this as a very important matter – linked to our expanding as to what should be stored. I think we should be commended for the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right that this should come. Then we understand that this legal regulation may be further and a little better than the legal regulation suggested in the Methodological Committee's proposal, which we agree on in the agreement. Based on the enthusiasm for privacy and source protection that I hear here in the Chamber, I expect a unanimous government to promote a better approach. A unanimous growth is going to meet this with good rules for source protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2813	In Denmark, 82 000 registrations were registered in 2010 as a result of the requirements of the Data Storage Directive – per person. It is difficult for many to see the impact of the Directive. One can imagine that there was an inspector next to you and noted who you called, when you called, how long the call lasted, and where the receiver was when you called him – or that there was an inspector at the mailbox and noted who you sent letters to, and where you were when the letter was sent. The question is: is it just the fact that the technology for monitoring this electronically does not yet exist, which means that the Right Party and the Workers' Party do not vote for the monitoring also of letter mail? In principle, that is exactly what will happen with the Data Storage Directive. The difference between this physical monitoring and the Data Storage Directive is that the latter happens without the attention of the population because it is done electronically. By following the principles of the Data Storage Directive, it might be said that it would also be necessary to register who you are visiting, where they live, how long you are there, if you delivered something from you, and if you got something back. For the time being, there are no feasible electronic methods for recording this. But the question is nevertheless obvious: is there a fundamental difference between this and what the Storting imposes today on the Norwegian people? Is it just because it is so difficult to physically monitor who is visiting who, that this is not part of the Data Storage Directive, that the electronic solution is temporarily missing? And: If it were technically feasible, if the technology existed, would the Workers' Party and the Right have agreed to electronic control of all visits to other people? Some may visit others to plan a criminal act. What arguments would the Workers' Party and the Right possibly have used against that type of monitoring, where there is in reality no fundamental difference between the monitoring of physical visits and that contained in the Data Storage Directive? The future will show which extensions the directive will take on gradually, and which links will be made with other registers – from banks, hubs, public registers and foreign registers – all in the proper name to help the police, but across the security and privacy of ordinary people. The Data Storage Directive crosses a crucial and security threshold, and the only right thing to do today, when it is likely to be adopted, is to postpone consent to the Directive until the EU revision is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2828	The negotiations have been demanding, and I feel that the Right has had a significant impact on its initial positions. I will also pay tribute to the Workers' Party for the tone and professionalism of the negotiations. The right would not accept the changes we are now dealing with in the eco-systems law, the directive, without significant restrictions and without the strengthening of privacy in a number of other areas of society, but also in this. We are pleased that we are now putting in place a new legislation that ensures the privacy of individuals and individuals in a proper way, and that the police are provided with a sound framework for access to the necessary investigation tools. It is a fundamental principle that I want to mention, because the parties agree that everyone has the right to have access to information about themselves. The obligation of logging and the right of access to the own logbook shall be the guiding principle of all major public and private registers, and, in the case of what has been mentioned in the agreed data protection notice, the limitations to be made in terms of the logging obligation, the right of access and the extent of the transparency of what I have just mentioned shall also be discussed. A visit until the end: when I hear the representative Hoksruds glad to be able to read the Right Principle Program, I recommend it as good reading and as something that several should read both more often and with great experience. It's very good to pick up there. I also see that the Progress Party is now more concerned with DNA than with DLD. In what was mentioned by the Progress Party by the term ‘politicist’, given what the contracting parties have put on the table, I must say that the Progress Party proposes in terms of more surveillance, space listening and telephone control, perhaps of the instruments that are more likely to receive the name just mentioned by the representative Hoksrud. I sat in the Method Control Committee, and one of the things that the sample also very clearly made clear was that there is a type of here-and-now-monitoring that is significantly more person-invasive than what is recorded in relation to historical data that is mentioned in the changes in the eco-ms.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2841	Technological developments are constantly giving new opportunities for the monitoring of individuals through the collection and compilation of personal data. However, a key task for a liberal judiciary is to protect individuals and minorities from abuse and arbitrary treatment. We therefore need strong privacy. Privacy needs to be ensured in all areas of society, management, employment, business and criminal justice. When assessing the need for any new investigation methods, data protection considerations must weigh heavily. With technological innovations, both the transparency of personal circumstances and the ability to monitor persons has been greatly expanded, both publicly and privately. The extended scope of old and new forms of registration may represent a threat to privacy and freedom of expression. In order to ensure privacy and freedom of expression, I will investigate the fundamental laws of privacy and make myself critical of the introduction of new laws that increase access to or scope of surveillance in society. If someone now thinks that I was more well-worded than I usually am, it has to be attributed to someone else. If we replace ‘we’, ‘me’ and ‘me’ with ‘Right’, this could be a quote from the Right Program. I have not been able to find anything, either in the setting or in the debate, that takes care of some of the things I quoted from. I would say that Mr Hagen’s contribution had something to say, namely that the positiveness of the EU is more important than the content of the Data Storage Directive and privacy. Then I have a small moment for the representative Haugli, who said that there should have been a button on the Internet and telephones that you could press to see if you were registered or not when you went into the Internet, what pages you were on, and what telephones you called. Then I can inform the representative Haugli that we have such a button. Yes, we have even more such buttons, and I referred to them in my previous post. The buttons are called proxy servers, online e-mail, VPN connection, fake e-mail addresses, unsecured wireless networks, Skype, foreign cash cards, etc. There are these buttons that criminals use to avoid being registered. And once again, those who are registered under this monitoring directive are law-abiding citizens who have done nothing wrong and who are most likely not going to do so – but are registered. It is not that everyone is equally happy to know that it is registered where you call, when you call, and who you call.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2855	The characteristics and adjectives have been reasonably solved in this debate, at my discretion, from the minority. I get a deep feeling that – when you bring to the square the kind of arguments and characteristics that we have heard through the debate – you have then run out of good arguments. Some of the claims I would like to comment on the tamp of the debate. The representative, Tetzschner, said that the investigation principle is abandoned, and that there is no longer any reason to suspect it. Then you must have read this proposition very poorly. It is precisely the investigation principle that is brought in with full weight — first a strict judicial review, so that strict demands can be made on the type of offences in which traffic data can be used. If the general police are to have access to this, there must also be some cause for suspicion, as the Tetzschner najl characterised as the investigation principle. The second thing that has been argued in the debate is that we are now leaving the presumption of innocence, that everyone is almost guilty, and that everyone is under investigation. It is a reasoning that, with respect to reporting, is completely wrong. We are using a lot of coercive drugs, much more invasive coercive drugs in the Norwegian police and prosecution authorities today, without violating the innocent presumption. It is precisely when coercive measures are applied to individuals that the presumption of innocence should be kept high. When people are held in custody, the presumption of innocence applies. You are not considered guilty until you have been convicted in a court of law, and the judgment is enforceable. It's the presumption of innocence. The fact that the police have access to see who you have called, when, and possibly where, you were, does not violate the presumption of innocence. It is therefore important for me to say that in both space listening, which the majority in this Chamber have been involved in adopting, custody prison, which everyone has been involved in adopting, and the seizure of property is fully related to the presumption of innocence, and one can be fully freed. Yes, in many cases it is precisely when the presumption of innocence is to be applied, and there is a need to be treated as innocent until criminal conviction is possible. Finally, I would like to comment – it was Special Representative Ramsøy who mentioned it – that there are no ‘limits’ for what the police will demand, and that there are no limits to what some would accept, if only the police demand it. I believe that this is a fundamental mistrust of both the Police Directorate, Kripos, the Police Security Service, the National Attorney – yes, for that matter also the Police Joint Union. I have much more confidence in these agencies and organizations. I believe that the national lawyer when we adopted space snooping in the previous period, it was just a moderate element and contributed to the fact that it was not as extensive as proposed by the then government. I think it is unfair to the Norwegian police and prosecution authority to get such characteristics hanging on. I would therefore like to defend them with this. The most surprising thing, though, is that those who traditionally reduce themselves to the police and target their desires and goals, the Progress Party, at this round fails.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2872	I would also like to draw up a statement by the representative Michael Tetzschner. It was very principleal, and I want to say that today – for once – we got a right-wing representative holding an article based on Right's principle program. What the representative Michael Tetzschner said was, among other things, that today’s Storting passed a law imposing on all those providing public telecommunications and Internet services to store traffic data in view of subsequent criminal prosecution without any specific suspicion. Tetzschner also said that data should be stored for six months, for no reason other than the fact that the state, primarily represented by the police, is interested in the availability of the data. I thought the article from Tetzschner showed something of the wholeness of this debate, and I would like to draw it up when I summarise it. The case-speaker, Mr Schou, and the representative of Mr Bjørnflaten, I would like to make a point of order when it comes to the proceedings in the committee. It is not that there has been a bad procedure until the presentation. No, I want to say that it has been a good treatment of the cases. But the paradox was that when an agreement was presented in its entirety, it was 17 minutes until we were to have a committee meeting. Then it's quite natural to stop and ask: how long do we need to look at that part? That's what's going to be paradoxical. It is quite right, as the representative Schou and Anne Marit Bjørnflaten said, that there was agreement on the progress plan. But this was reversed as we got so little time to go through it. Then the majority – and they are allowed to – chose to push through that progress plan. But I think it shows a bad political discretion in a matter that we've spent so long trying to deal with. Why shouldn't we use the necessary time to treat that part properly? So I just want to give a short explanation of vote from the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, SV and the Progress Party's side. These parties win, among other things: Int. 289 L for 2010–2011 at me ‘registers that Document 8:103 LS is intended to be an alternative to the introduction of the Data Storage Directive into Norwegian law’. [[2010-2011]] This is Left's Document No. Eight proposals. In the same way, we would also ask that Trine Skei Grande's proposals on behalf of the Left be included in the Minutes. We do not want to vote for them, because we think we have given a thorough explanation in the data storage directive setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2890	Actually, I should probably start with one minute's silence for the weakening of privacy, which the majority are going to decide on today. Last Thursday, there was a difficult demonstration outside here, where all political youth parties took a great deal of distance from the majority's proposals and the desire to monitor everyone, in the form of the Data Storage Directive and the implementation of the Data Storage Directive. The right-hand application may be reading well, but it has to be followed up in action. And that's action that's important. I understand that the representative de Ruiter did not like the comparison with other regimes and surveillance, but it is a great paradox that the methods that are now being implemented in Norway, and the opportunities that are offered here, would make old regimes – both KGB and Stasi – green with envy compared to what is about to be introduced here. Then I want to challenge the Right, because they're very busy, and say that now you're really going to get hold of, the press source protection. I feel that the clear and clear feedback from the press is that we do not experience that this is a source protection. It is the opposite, and it is very critical to implement the Data Storage Directive. Is it so that at the moment when an alert finds out that he is going to call an editor, the number will be anonymous? That's not how technology works. It would at least be very easy to find out that someone has called a number that is secret. On the other hand, it'll be easy to figure out who called, if you just want it enough. And then I think it's a little special that one third of the Right representatives in this room are really against – I know that. Some of them have been quite tall and dark – both my colleague from my home country, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, and not least Nikolai Astrup. But I've only registered one person who's been to this pulpit today, who's been clear and clear and said from, Michael Tetzschner. Frank Bakke-Jensen probably explained why he had turned around. But then it could be interesting to know what all the Right Representatives who have criticised those who are critical of the implementation of the Data Storage Directive think about their own party colleagues – who are equally critical, but obviously have not been allowed to participate in the debate and tell them what they think about the Data Storage Directive. It's pretty important to know that too. To the rapporteur: It is said that steel controls have been carried out during the treatment. Yes, the treatment was good until the end. However, when you make a new bill in the delivery meeting without having the opportunity to deal with it thoroughly, I call it irresponsible proceedings.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2905	First, until the data storage issue is monitoring. For me, there is no doubt that the Data Storage Directive deserves the monitoring label. I record that the majority of its neuter interpretation interprets the requirement so that the data must be used before it qualifies for the term ‘monitoring’. When e.g. A store sets up a camera, they put up a sign that the store is camera-monitored. Everyone agrees. So there is no requirement for this video tape to be used by the storekeeper or the police before they call it surveillance. So this is just neotalism. Several have called for our national option. To that I have to say that the Centre Party, together with the Data Protection Alliance, has recorded its proposal for national legislation to the Right. I felt that we were never taken seriously. Our option is based on today's storage, which will not go away, even though the high-voiced PST manager claimed this would happen during the hearing. The telecommunications companies said something else. The Minister for Transport confirms something else. We announced that we were willing to look at the legislation around IP addresses, either with deferred deletion or storage obligations. We have been positive about court-margining requirements, and we have been positive about more stringent storage frameworks. For the Central Party, it would also be appropriate to impose storage in Norway to ensure that the Data Protection Authority had supervisory competence. We would have been able to do that if we said no to the directive. Today, the Data Protection Authority has no competence to do so if a telecommunications company chooses to store in another EEA country. For us in the Center Party, this is a profoundly serious matter. It's about the relationship between the individual and the citizen. The center party stands up for the individual. Today's debate has been about privacy and combating crime. But when the outcome is what it becomes, it's a boundless loyalty to everything that comes from the EU. I am absolutely sure that if the content of the Data Storage Directive had come from the Red-Green Government, I can almost guarantee that the Right would stand together against the proposal and use stronger words than what we have heard here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2924	The fact that an action can act as a crime-fighting tool is not, in fact, an argument in itself, although one may get the impression of it in the debate today. Our job as a legislative assembly is to weigh different concerns against each other, but do so according to certain specific principles that we agree on. It's one of the hallmarks of our democracy. That is not the Labour Party and the Right line in the debate today. On the contrary, we have heard posts after posts here in the hall where extensive storage of people's movement patterns is renamed into a strengthening of privacy, where a little more storage is okay because we store a lot from before, and where we who are law-abiding, as well as having nothing to fear. But yes, we do. There has been no lack of examples of cheating by bankers or police and other agencies providing sensitive personal information for example. The gossip press – not illegal relationships, but pure gossip that violates the individual grossly. It may seem small in this debate how many big words have been used, but this is the case: the right to have secrets, the right to do what I want without the state knowing it, the right to visit who I want without the state knowing it, and the right to actually be a lot of places without anyone else knowing it and without being suspicious. The data shall be encrypted, answer the right hand side and the Working Party. Of course they should, and at all events to use it as a mitigating circumstance is to assume that the receiver of the message is ignorant. When data is stored, it is clearly encrypted, but it will also leak. It'll also be abused, it almost always does. And the majority in the Chamber has – shall end this debate – no concerns about it. The matter is settled. The right may be shown to be responsible, and it is in good time before its own national meeting that members are not given their opinion, and the Workers' Party is getting tough on the Progress Party in the fight against crime, and privacy pays the price. When this directive comes into force, like many others, I am going to use several so-called proxy servers when I read e-mails. I'm going to use Skype more, and I'm going to turn off my cell phone more – not because I'm a criminal, not because I'm a pedophile or a terrorist, but because it's my right to talk to who I want to and visit who I want without the state knowing it. To follow the logic of crime control, which the Minister of Justice is basing on, it is probably a matter of time before this too is regulated. The issue here is more than the Data Storage Directive and the decision we are making today. The fact that a majority in the Chamber is unable to see it is new to this matter, and I am afraid that this debate will be read with very surprising eyes in ten and twenty years, even if the debate is long. It'll be very interesting reading.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2933	Since the representative Hareide took the explanation of vote, it gives me the opportunity to use the time for arguments. It's a woman's age since I entered the Stortinget in 1997. We had just started using e-mails. It was even so that someone just used the computer as a book support here on the house. I think someone told us when we were going to have that kind of debate today, we would say that there was a science fiction debate, considering that so much information about us as people should be registered and noted down, that so many systems should be made to monitor us in case we were going to do something wrong, not suspecting that we were doing something wrong. The representative Erna Solberg said that no one had talked about location and base location. I'm afraid of the way you now start talking about it as evidence, because it's so easy to take advantage of, as I said in my post. Send your phone with someone else, let them send some text messages, and then you have the alibi that you were not near the crime scene. Send some text messages to some of the less glum in the crowd, get them to meet up at the crime scene, and there are several people to share the suspicion. We don't get along with the fact that we have to go through good old-fashioned research, and you should have done that in accordance with the good old principles. So it sounds as if the Right believes that the Workers' Party has a majority alone, and that they have helped the nation to improve what would have been adopted. But it's not like that. Had the Right gone with the minority in this case, it was we who could have regulated the things we wanted in a better way, so that the registers we have are not abused in the way they are being abused today. At five o'clock today, I did the experiment of turning off my cell phone. For an entire hour I was out of range, so that no one could discover where I was — a little desperate, and perhaps someone saw me here in the hall. But all of a sudden, I thought, well, it could be a suspicion. Why in all days did the mobile phone get knocked off at the time of a break-in or other things being done? There are so many things in this that don't give us the good solutions, that don't help us fight the serious crime, that everyone is concerned that we should do. It's not that it's this little step that leads us from a completely free society to a monitoring society, but it's the whole thing here that makes this become totalitarian.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2948	First of all, I would say that there has been an interesting debate today. We've come up with a lot of points of view. There has been a good debate, and in many ways a fundamental debate that shows where some dividing lines actually go. I just want to get into a few points. One point relates to the fact that the Progress Party was in favour of space interception and that it was not possible to understand why the Data Storage Directive could not be supported. The principles lie there just because the use of space listening occurs on suspicion of a criminal act. The very principle here is linked to whether each of us as the starting point for the state and others, is actually guilty until we can prove ourselves innocent. It's the very principle that's the bearer. What I'm questioning is where the limit goes. Where is the limit of what we are going to register about our citizens? I have been here since 1997 and have seen more and more things to be registered – constantly new registers. Let's look at the health side; we still have new records in health records legislation. Those who have co-existed with the Advance Party and the Left and the fence most about privacy have actually been Right, and they have just repeatedly asserted how important it is that privacy is in the high seat because of the danger of abuse. Yeah, it's weird what we see today. With regard to the position of the Workers' Party, it is not surprising at all, because it is the people who have repeatedly promoted new registers, constantly new things to be registered about us. They've always been positive about it, while we're also trying to look individuals up against this. We have seen a lot of examples of health information that are going to go wrong. If one manages to hack into NASA, the FBI and the CIA -- at most agencies -- who thinks this system, this register here is bombproof? Yes, the responsible parties themselves, the Right and the Workers' Party, in terms of economics, which it is all about – keeping order of the economy and how much we are going to spend – are the ones who are going through this case and say, "We give the bluff in what it costs." It has to be introduced, cost what it will cost, because we don't even know what the cost is. But someone will have to pay the bill. It's also a fact that the criminals in any case know how to get around the system. You have e.g. referenced to the Baneheia case: it was actually solved within today's system. This is a sad day for privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2961	I'm not going to spend a long time, which I don't have, either, saying so much about the debate. But actually it was most Martin Kolberg who made me a little startled today. Because if that's how he thinks things are, it probably means that the agreement between the Right and the Workers' Party is made on a rather failed basis. If that's the way Martin Kolberg thinks that content isn't being stored with this, then it's obviously amazing how much he hasn't understood. Obviously, if you store e-mail addresses that are sent, and when phones are picked up, you don't have to save content until you have some idea of what this is about. Many of these examples we've heard of here. But what he doesn't understand either is this: what is the growth in the whole ICT sector in services? The growth is about that in the future we will have power meters connected to our IP address. Then it means that by reading an IP address you can know when you turn on the washing machine, or if you like to wear the light when you love, or if pepper nuts like me are darker or not at night. You can read that from IP addresses in the future. You want to connect GPS transmitters to cars, which are also connected to the IP address. They want information from the Road Service because they need to dimension roads, and it is very practical if the Road Service knows where all the cars are at any time. This is what is being started today. It's this monitoring that gets started today, because you don't understand how important this information is, in order to share very important information about us as individuals. Saying that you're not storing information is completely misunderstood, and there's a lack of understanding of where things are going to move. I actually want to express it that it's not serious, if you haven't understood it. The Chief of EuroCOP, the European response to the Joint Union of Police, Kiefer, once answered a question from our trusted police officer, that the outcome of the Data Storage Directive would be a huge effort with no more results than making terrorists and criminals somewhat pettyly irritated. If we introduce this today, we will introduce a massive monitoring and a future even greater monitoring with the new technological possibilities that lie throughout our everyday lives without taking any of the big ones we're talking about that we're going to take. But we're going to register our whole lives to others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2978	It is in many ways a sad day today by the fact that the key principle of privacy is threatened. Rarely is the Workers' Party's slogan more striking than it is today: 'Everybody's coming along.' In the name of efficiency and cost-effectiveness, privacy is sacrificed and everyone is involved. Today, in this debate, we have had many examples of information that has come to light, even information that should not be available. Nevertheless, we are now going to find ourselves in the situation that we have to prove our innocence in matters where there are stored data that connects us up to city or time. The misery of all the world, which organized crime and assault on innocent children, is now to find a solution, and the price is the monitoring of all the citizens of the country. It's almost as if you can't get this criminal monster killed without all of us accepting the rejection of the central principle of privacy. One may argue as loudly as one will, but our constitutional freedom from surveillance has been superseded by today's decision. Let me just be clear: the price, the loss of privacy, as we end up with today, would be acceptable if it cleaned up and eliminated the abuse of innocent children and other pigs. But we all know that it isn't. It will probably be harder and more labor-intensive without the Data Storage Directive, but we have to be willing to pay that price. So, if you're going to get this obscenity alive, you're going to have a set of resources to strengthen the police, so that these issues also get to say solution. The role of policy is to limit technology when there are conflicts of interest, such as privacy and the rule of law, and rarely is it clearer than today. The progress party wants to be clear on what side we're on in this case. We do that by voting against the Data Storage Directive today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2987	I'm going to try to be short after a long day, but it was Justice Minister Storberget who made me take the floor, because he put so much energy in taking away from my statement about what I think is the deviation from what is a little roundly described as and called the investigation principle. As I understood the Council of State, his point was that that principle was retained. Yes, if so well, I don't understand why we've been discussing this for so long today. Then I have to challenge the Council of State on his understanding of the investigation principle, because it is clear that he is based on the simple, but crazy premise that neither collection nor storage is an intervention. It was also not clear what the Council of State considered an intervention for its part. Is it when the data is retrieved? Is it when they are put together and processed, or is it only when they are used specifically in an investigation? The German Constitutional Court has dealt with this very issue. They have expressed their opinion on this, and they have also stated that already mass storage as a phenomenon, which is targeting everyone, is an intervention. They also say that this intervention is disproportionate, because it is an operation without indication, without suspicion, without cause, for no reason at all, as it will often be when nothing has yet happened. That is what violates key principles of criminal justice and justice. Then the requirements are concrete indication, a materialised basis for investigation, and without such indications: an innocent presumption of innocence.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e2994	I'm taking the fall ahead and taking the iPad with me to the pulpit, because I found an excellent FrP quote via the iPad. I took the floor to comment on some of Bård Hoksrud's accusations against the Right. He called for some of us, especially the no-side – why aren't they here then – and criticises that some of our no-people have fallen on a compromise after negotiations with another party for a national solution. In fact, leaks from the Progress Party's internal meeting during the last year of the Data Storage Directive show that there are probably more followers of the Data Storage Directive in the Progress Party's wholesale group than there are opponents of the Directive in the Right Storing Group, and then to say that there is probably a majority in the Storing for this matter is manifestly wrong. He also speaks against better knowledge. I will also be so kind to quote from a member of the Judicial Committee who for some reason has not taken the floor today, but who has taken the floor before and said – in an excellent way: "I want to work for Frp to turn around. My impression is that a lot of people in the Frp group think like me." That's what Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr says in the Justice Committee. In the past, there are also other FrPs who have been out there – particularly 15 FrPs who may have been in favour of the Data Storage Directive and who have been whipped in place to use Bård Hoksrud’s point of view. Otherwise there are very many FrPs who have quoted the Right Principle Program today. It looks like they've done, like a lot of the members of the Progress Party in the last six months, and they like what they see. The right-hand program is good. The right principle program is glittering, and I think very many will notice the uniform tone that is in the right, between us who are followers of the directive, from both a practical point of view and an ideological point of view, and the opponents who have both a practical approach to it and an ideological approach to it. So when Michael Tetzschner, Nikolai Astrup, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, who has done a good job of fronting the no-side in the Right, meets with us from the Yes side, we shall contribute to the Right to continue to give a fight for the rights of the individual, the fight against a strong state, the fight against public waste, unnecessary bureaucracy, the fight for private property rights and the fight for local democracy over central government. There is a fantastic starting point for all the 30 Råres Storing representatives, and we are also happy that we have together clearly – especially with the no-side in the Right – to drag the Workers' Party in a more privacy-friendly direction. I think we're going to get strengthened out of this, and I'm looking forward to the further debate. But I had hoped that representatives from the Progress Party had had a slightly different tone, and therefore I choose to bite now in the last instance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3015	There is no doubt that in such a case as this, the crossing interests are not so simply compatible. But we would have acted totally irresponsible as a political governing body if we had chosen, like this so-called privacy alliance, to ignore the crystal-clear advice given by the national police authority, which is given in Norwegian defence opinions. When I register that prominent representatives from this same alliance so gallantly just celebrate this away as totally misunderstood, I would say that then the jam this debate has reached a new type of ceiling height. When several representatives try to illustrate it as if the Right only wants to cost away from this matter in order to avoid a debate at the national meeting, the reality is the exact opposite. There is no party that has taken this matter as thoroughly as to treatment as just right. I don't know who it impresses when the representative Hoksrud of the Progress Party says that the KGB would have become ‘green out of envy’ of learning from the Workers' Party in this debate. I don't know who he really has as a target group to impress with good or medium-good arguments. As the representative Mr Kambe pointed out, Hoksrud found out that one third of the Right Group was against the directive. But I think the representative Hoksrud instead of talking about 1 minute's silence, which he was about as a good solution and what he thought about it all today, could have used this minute to illustrate how many in the Progress Party who really want to vote in favour of the directive today. In a case that also bears the mark of being controversial, there is no doubt that when we have the concept of ‘criminality’ within our borders and terror in our own backyard, in neighbouring countries, we must take this very seriously. In addition, when the same alliance should be able to tell us how to manage to obtain an exemption in our own EEA agreement, when as an outsider, we will not at all be in the vicinity of obtaining any kind of derogation for any special arrangements recommended by this so-called alliance, it will be totally irresponsible from this point of view to contribute to the fact that, with open eyes, we are actually moving the whole EEA Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3026	First a note, I'll call it. It is that, for my part, I note that the chairman of the Judicial Committee, the representative of Per Sandberg, has expressed much distrust of the Norwegian police from this pulpit during this debate. There is only reason to note for Stortinget that the head of the Judicial Committee believes that the police, for example. has achieved a very high level of fall through the opinions they have given in the context of the consultation and debate on the Directive itself. It's a note. So I just want to say that this debate has been full of characteristics. I don't take it so solemnly. I just note that the rhetoric sometimes can be high. Sometimes it can be good in itself, but if any of the things that are said are seriously meant, I really have to say that someone each should think through what kind of characteristic a user, like, among other things. Hoksrud did in the post, and which was commented on in the post before me. That's just what I'm saying. So I would say as a comment on what Trine Skei Grande said in his last post, that there's every reason to have a lot of respect for the big perspective on the development of the whole new culture of society related to ICT use. Of course it is. But to the representative Skei Grande and all the others who are opposed to it as the majority in this room now is probably going to adopt in a few minutes, it is to say that this debate would have been much better if they had presented an alternative proposal. It really would have been something. Then we had a perspective on this debate. Then these proposals could have been set up against each other. But they haven't come. Only the agreement between the Right and the Workers' Party provides the basis for the decisions to be taken. The others are against it. It's nothing but being in the state you are. At least it doesn't solve the big perspective that the representative Skei Grande drew up in his post. Finally, this related to the term ‘monitoring’. At that point, I would almost say that some of the representatives are at least almost going to political new talk. Monitoring is about the police’s ability to follow up ongoing and sustained physical movements and intervention — and only after a court decision. Nothing in the proposals that has been put forward provides the basis for such a claim. I do not believe that the entire population of Norway should be suspected, and I believe that no one else should think so in the Stortinget either.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3037	I also think it has been an interesting debate. A lot of strong words have been used here today, and there has been a lot of focus on privacy issues. When a person sits and listens to this debate, a few impressions can be that there is not a single data stored today. But that's actually the case. Telecom providers are storing data today. When we consider whether the proposal under consideration here today is a strengthening or weakening of privacy, a starting point must be the situation as it is. I therefore believe that when we introduce judicial control, it is a significant strengthening of privacy. The establishment of a criminal framework for the collection of data is a strengthening of privacy. The introduction of a licensing obligation for the storage and processing of data is a strengthening of privacy. The ability of the Data Protection Authority to lay down the conditions under which a concession may be granted is a strengthening of data protection. The empowerment of the Data Protection Authority to impose encryption where deemed necessary is a strengthening of privacy. The logging of the data is a strengthening of privacy. Finally, there is something that I think is quite important, and that is that we introduce a deletion obligation. It is also a strengthening of privacy. I do not understand those who believe that we are now reducing privacy. The proposals to be adopted here today will strengthen privacy in the light of the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3046	Four central party government councils and four Swedish government councils found that we could not agree to the implementation of the Data Storage Directive. We say in the proposition: ‘We pay particular attention to the fact that, in our view, the Data Storage Directive is a significant violation of the privacy of individual citizens.’ This is to be read on page 137. He stands after this debate. So a few comments. Firstly, there is a clear misunderstanding in relation to the so-called agreement. The requirement for transparency of data relating to ourselves is currently covered by the Personal Information Act and is not seen as new. So privacy is the important thing. When it comes to the cost of implementing the directive, I have answered as well as I can at that time. Encryption and level of it is not clarified. The costs cannot be clarified either. What we know is that this could be a huge cost to a large provider, first on investment and then on operations. So we know that there's a whole bunch of small providers that won't get that much cost, but that will mean a lot to them. A small ISP likes to have a small office. To establish physical security, access control, own databases, etc. will be a heavy load for some. This may mean that the large providers can handle this, but the requirement also applies to all small ones, and in the utmost consequence, this can obviously mean that the small providers will not survive. It means a reduced service supply. I said in my post that there's nothing to suggest that there won't be any more data in the future. Ensuring police access to data is important to help clarify crime. Within a national law, it would be possible to clarify what the police need, rather than accept a package that would save a lot of data that the police do not need. That is the proportionality, it is that a package is accepted that weakens privacy in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3066	The debate today has been good at times, because it concerns important issues. There is no one, I think, who questions that storing more information gives us privacy challenges. But it's not like that either because you think that storing more information gives us privacy challenges is against any storage of information. That's the kind of balance that this magnification has done a number of times, and it does today as well. That is why I totally disagree with what Mr Kleppa concluded with, namely that this debate has been about being in favour of or against a package. It may have done so in the Central Party, but in the Right the debate has not concerned the three magical letters DLD, but it has focused on 1) the important principles on whether to store on the basis of commercial interests or social interests, and 2) on the concrete substance of changes in a national law. The majority in the Right Group ended up saying that on the basis of a fundamental discussion, it was right to create a law that was the basis for storing information based on democratic decisions in the Storting, rather than that the information should be based only on what should be of commercial interest to the company at any time. When the Right Group was finished with the principle discussion, on which one has spent most time, a discussion started about what one then thought it was actually necessary to store, based on the purpose of storage, and then what important privacy measures had to be put in place to counteract what everyone agrees on is a challenge – at least everyone in the Right believes is a challenge – namely that when you start storing more information, it is in itself a privacy challenge. A number of demands were then made by one party in the negotiations, both with the five parties – the so-called privacy alliance – and with the Workers' Party. Those requirements have been passed. This means that what the Storting adopts today is a national solution where a storehold based on what the Storting believes is necessary to store, and not based on what is commercially interesting to store at any time, and where a come up with a series of measures to counter what privacy is a challenge, which is always present by storing more information. That's why the Right Group supports what the majority here supports.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3077	There has been a refreshing debate because it has crossed the well-known constellations – at least during this and the previous period of ageing. There has also been a historically important debate, for it is rare for a member of the government – and here several members of the government – to take her on important issues. I must admit that I have had good experience of the fact that the specialist council has taken hers and is plowing hers in the main hall. That being said, it underlines to me how serious this matter is, how important it is. Finally, I would like to stress something that should not be questioned after this debate is over. In the position of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the majority has made some strange remarks that: ‘the Data Storage Directive cannot be said to affect interests which are specific to Norway, contrary to directives and provisions in areas where Norwegian circumstances differ significantly from our neighbouring countries and where experience is that we have gained the necessary understanding and mutually acceptable solutions.’;» So this is presented in the debate as if the reservation rights acquired by Norway when we negotiated the EEA Agreement were to be conditional on us having very special special interests to reserve in relation to. I do not see that there is such a restriction of the right of reservation in the EEA Agreement. There must be a self-imposed restriction of the right of reservation to which these members argue. And it can not be in the interests of the nation – no matter what position you take in relation to both the right of reservation, the EEA Agreement and, where appropriate, membership of the EU. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has today so clearly stated: ‘It must be the case that a case of serious importance to Norway and where there is reason to believe through a treatment process that what is close to us has been agreed on by 27 countries is not suitable for us. That is why we must have that right." I can sign that on 100 pst. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has indicated that he is in the Christian People's Party's view on the right to reserve. Then it is clear that we need to make a political assessment of the consequences of reserving ourselves in a particular case, and what counter-reactions should be allowed to emerge from the EU as a result of the use of this right to travel. But there's speculation, because we haven't tried it yet in practice. For my part, I believe that this case, in relation to the EU internal market and the key parts of the EEA Agreement, is so marginal that there is no reason to fear serious counter-reactions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3096	The representative, Trine Skei Grande, has spoken twice before and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3099	It's a short sentence, an info and a conclusion: It's not called child pornography, it's called assault pictures against children. That's what I think this hall should sort out. For information: approx. 100 cases of abuse against children who are on their own with the Oslo police, which they do not have the resources to investigate. Here we fight like we're going to solve everything, but there's a lot of things about child abuse that the police don't have the resources to take at all. I think this is going to be a decision that our grandchildren are going to judge us for. They're going to be embarrassed that we've done it. I want to end with a quote from Star Wars, when they interrupt their democracy in the form of decisions, and Padmé ends it with: that is how freedom dies – to standing applause.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3112	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3115	The representative Kambe was occupied with leaks. I think he should be more concerned with the facts. The party's last national government unanimously decided to reject the Data Storage Directive. We've had this treatment several times in the state government. I also register that Kambe will not tell you that according to the blog of Kristin Klemet, ten of the Counties of Right said no to the Data Storage Directive. So I could bring the iPad up here, too, but then maybe I would have trouble finding a couple of states statements in the right, because I'm registering that when the Right decided what they were going to do, it suddenly became difficult to find a few of the resolutions from the counties. So you might want to relate to the actual ratio. I record – still – that this is how the Right will not allow the party democracy to decide, but will allow the big group to decide. In the Progress Party, party democracy, programmes, national governments and national meetings are the leaders of politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3122	The exchange of words between the Right and the Party of Advancement indicates that the debate is about to end. I would like to reiterate to the representative Tetzschner, whom I believe brings very interesting questions into the debate – and is more on the ground than in Star Wars, to say the least – that I think he is wrong about the question of the investigation principle. I find it interesting that the German court ruling in the Karlsruhe Constitutional Court, which fell on 2 February last year, is now being drawn up. It is a decision that cannot be taken because Norway leaves general principles — and the investigation principle that there is reason to suspect intervention. What the court just stated was that for six months the storage obligation was not contrary to the Constitution, but it was therefore the implementation of the Data Storage Directive that was contrary to the Constitution, and in particular the protection given to the stored information, that no information was given to those affected – we do so with our proposal, it is appointed, among other things. Lawyers – and not least the lack of adequate access and use of the data for the police. This is not a legal decision that can be taken to income because we leave the investigation principle. Rather, on the contrary, it is a legal decision that can be taken in terms of revenue for us to just stick to the principle of investigation, because the Norwegian implementation, as the Stortinget is now invited to adopt, precisely states that there is reason to suspect. The data must be secured, there must be strict penalties for what someone is suspected of being able to access the data, and it must be tried. That's why you don't leave the investigation principle. It may be that other countries have done so, but that's what the Stortinget is just making sure that Norway doesn't, and that makes this, in my opinion, stand up to the commitments we have both in relation to human rights and not least in relation to our own constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3130	After hearing the debate and the speeches from the representative Kolberg and from several right-wing representatives, I have to say that I understand that some people have sore toes on both the left and the right – given the lack of reasoning. The representative Kolberg exclaims from the pulpit that it is very unprofessional of the Progress Party to call other parties both one and the other. But even he and the Workers' Party are promoting proposals in this matter where it is not even clear who is going to pay for the Data Storage Directive. I have to say that I know the blackmail game in this room right, and not least the attitude towards those parties that so nicely call themselves state-holders, it ends up with consumers, who don't want the data storage directive at all, paying the bill for it. So you end up paying a bill for something you don't want to have. It is not very serious that the state parties have not even clarified that part of the matter. In this context, rapid loading can quickly become a large load plant both for many telecommunications companies and not least for the consumer. Then you claim it's the organized crime you want to live on. Yes, that's possible, but organized crime is far from farm and beyond everything called the Data Storage Directive. For believe me, it's easy to bypass it. But in relation to the characteristics, I have to say, is it so strange that someone is talking about comparisons that you might not want to hear, when you're going to turn down what has been customary in Norway? So we need to get a position where citizens of a free country are considered to be potentially guilty until the opposite is proven. It is quite far from where we are today, and so the state must be able to collect potential evidence against the citizens in case they commit a crime in the future. Or is this a kind of police state that we do not want to welcome? For the Progress Party, the matter is fine. We want to safeguard individual freedom. That is why we are opposed to the Data Storage Directive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3141	I feel the urge for some closing remarks on the tamp of a long debate. I choose someone else's words, with the exception of one: ‘The Directive is a gigantic package which, when developed, aimed at covering all electronic communications channels. In retrospect, other solutions have developed which are not covered until further notice. However, it is important to understand that a fundamental principle is being taken into consideration: the authorities should break into the personal sphere in this way. Is the measure proportional? Is it consistent with the rule of law in a free democratic society? The debate has not excluded the need for a certain amount of data storage. However, a storage must be proportionate to what is to be averted. It requires a process where the authorities provide reasonable justification and documentation for the needs related to the individual types of traffic data. Such evidence is still not available. [[...]] However, when identifying the overall level of monitoring, consideration can be given not only to the measures already taken, but also to those which will be undertaken with a certain degree of certainty for an foreseeable period of time. A kind of 'pre-var' principle suggests that the list of actions to be implemented cannot be too low, as this would mean that many subsequent actions could be considered to be equally necessary. The consequence may be that the overall monitoring progresses to become massive.» With the exception of one word – if one replaces the ‘debate’ with the ‘Data Protection Authority’ – this is the consultation response of the Data Protection Authority to the hearing of the Transport Committee from 7 to 9. February of this year. You might think that they applauded what has come after the agreement between the Workers' Party and the Right. The Data Protection Authority didn't do that. So the parties in government and the privacy alliance's no to the directive are still very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3163	There are others who have said that today is a sad day. I would say that it is far more than sad – it is quite dramatic. The Norwegian population today loses some of its privacy. It violates the Constitution § 102, and it violates Article 8 of the Convention on Human Rights, which says that as individuals we have the right to privacy. We use large parts of our private life with a phone or a PC or an iPad. All of this can be recorded. And when the Council of State Aasrud says it's being stored today, as if it were going to legitimize that we're going to go under the Data Storage Directive – yes, I'm getting a bit of a vote. There is no reason for us to formalise and legitimise the current storage of personal data. I don't know if it was a mere delay, but the Council of State also said: encryption if the Data Protection Authority finds it necessary. This means that not all of our data storage is to be encrypted — it actually means that it is only if the Data Protection Authority considers it necessary. Is it so that you find then that you want to encrypt e.g. The data of the royal house and government, while the rest of us shall be relatively unprotected? Then we talk about the amazing agreement that the Workers' Party and the Right have concluded, which has reduced the storage time by six months, where you have been obliged to erase, and where you have received legal proceedings. No amendments to the Data Directive have been tabled. On the other hand, what has been achieved is what the Directive provides for national provisions and adaptations. That's where you've been changed. I don't think it's very impressive, it says in Article 6 that you can store up to six months, in Article 7d it says that you have to delete when the storage period is out, and in Article 9 of the directive it says that you can start legal proceedings – it's up to each nation to do. So this is a dramatic day for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3172	Since we are talking about new media, I will allow myself to quote from the blog of the representative Torbjørn Røe Isaksen: ‘This evening, Stortinget votes in favour of the so-called Data Storage Directive. I will vote against." So it's like, where the majority in the Progress Party, which I belong to, has managed to persuade the minority to vote as one block today, Arve Kambe's representative has failed to convince the minority in the Right Group. It's very joyful. It's a shame the minority is as small as it's going to be, but that's the way it is. Then there are many of those who are supporters of the directive today who have said that this storage is not a problem for us big-time representatives. The representative Tegen went so far as to say that this is about protecting the minority by monitoring the majority. Now it's not about this liberal rule of law principle. On the contrary, it is about protecting the minority, protecting the individual from abuse by a majority. That's what we're doing today. I'm also worried when several of the speakers say that this can help prove people's innocence. It is an attack on another liberal rule of law, namely the presumption of innocence. That there are some of the supporters who seem to not understand the difference between the proposals of the Progress Party to make it easier to take action against people who, after legal proceedings, are believed to have committed a criminal act, and to monitor 5 million. People, it's just sad. The representative, Mr. Kambe, says that the Right should continue the fight against public waste, but data storage is clearly excluded from the fight against public waste – so far, the Right is not willing to extend. I have noted that there are several people who have attacked my colleague Hoksrud for withdrawing Stasi. Stasi got to a lot that certainly impresses many in this hall, when it comes to monitoring. But now it's like a random German citizen has asked to get out his location data from Germany. In six months there are 35,000 hits on one German citizen. One might say a lot strange about Stasi, but I'm pretty sure they didn't have 70,000 location data, even on their most suspected political opponents when they were at worst – Bård Hoksrud gets another answer for this. But we are giving today the opportunity to go much further than the case was then.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3190	When I take the floor at the end of a debate that is today, it is quite simply because I expect that I will only have the opportunity to shame the Minister of Transport during this big time period, and then I would like to take advantage of the occasion. She's perfectly accurate, the Council of State, when she says that it's not possible to calculate costs, because that's for example. not defined to which degree the data should be encrypted. It shows that the privacy of which the representatives of the Right and the Labour Party are apparently concerned is in no way clarified. It would have been possible to calculate what this, for example. would cost. But so thorough has not been, and then I ask: how can one then claim that privacy is the winner in this matter? That the Labour Party is voting in favour of proposals that allow us to sit back just with Telenor, I understand. They have a long tradition for that. But that Right is contributing to the same thing, I can in no way understand. And then there's a paradox when the representative Arve Kambe says that the Right's program is so good that he still doesn't want to follow it. Because this is what this is about, it's about those who actually say that the Right's programme is good, they're the same as opponents of the Directive. It turned the representative Arve Kambe away, in the same way as very many other Right-Representatives. I'm sorry. Step Skei Grande is very right when she says that tomorrow's generation will pass judgment on this proposal. Tomorrow's generation is very clear that the Data Storage Directive has to say no to. It says all the youth parties, it says the Progress Party. It is a pity that the Right today falls into the interests of privacy in its back.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3199	The representative, Svein Roald Hansen, has spoken twice earlier in the debate and, in this regard, is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3202	The representative of the Højbrätten was a little worried about the majority's remark in the vote on the implementation, where we say that: «the Data Storage Directive cannot be said to affect interests which are specific to Norway, unlike directives and provisions in areas where Norwegian circumstances differ significantly from our neighbouring country». I believe that it is very good in relation to the wording set out in the EEA Agreement section on this subject, for it states that on directives which have a particularly serious effect in the EFTA countries, the parties shall ‘ endeavour to reach an agreement’ acceptable to both parties. There is a pressure on the EU side to take on board that what they have adopted does not fit into Norwegian circumstances, because it differs from other places. I believe that this is important and a significant reason why the EEA Agreement has been so successful that we have had adjustments without having to make use of the right to reserve. Besides, I think Bård Hoksrud's idea of one minute's silence was a good idea.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3214	There has been an interesting debate on important issues. Several have used the term 'news' to introduce old concepts into content. If there is something new today, it is the use of the term ‘monitoring’. Monitoring involves an observation by someone, that someone is coming along with it. The collection of data under the Data Storage Directive will take place exceptionally, on a case-by-case basis, from the individual telecommunications provider who stores the information locally and after our independent courts have agreed that the strict conditions of the law have been met for the purpose of investigating serious criminal cases. The mistrust expressed to the police by the minority, to the Norwegian judicial authorities, is frightening. And worse: where does the minority want to label our 20 nearest neighbouring countries as police states and to draw parallels to totalitarian regimes like the GDR and the Soviet Union? In the Middle East, people in these days protest against dictatorships that violate human rights and that actually run surveillance. Comparing Norway in 2011, with or without the Data Storage Directive, with police states is a mockery of those who actually live in police states. The fact that we here in the Chamber have different views on this matter only means that we have different views on this matter. We weigh important considerations differently, but have the same objective: to secure the rule of law. With all due respect, democracy and the rule of law are not at stake. What's happening today is neither sad nor dramatic. When we wake up tomorrow, we also wake up in a state of law and democracy. There's something nobody in this room should talk down. That's something we should appreciate and express enthusiasm for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3227	I really just want to thank you for the debate, and I too, with three brief points. The first is that I think it has sometimes been a good and interesting debate – I don't know if he has our refreshing, but at least a good, interesting and instructive debate at best. The second thing is that the debate, once again, has reminded me that it is better to be in multiples than in minorities – to the extent that they needed some reminder about it! The third and a little more serious is that I also take something positive into account from the debate on these issues, but also some – I would call it – challenges, especially those that have argued for the Data Storage Directive here today. I think that some of them have made good speeches, what I would call practical arguments for why the directive is an advantage for the fight against crime. Many have also shown that a lot of storage is already in progress, which I was also involved in my post. But I think maybe the question of how it should be hasn't been answered so well in a lot of their posts. I can understand that for some – especially if one is conservative – it would be a better argument that things should be like this in the future, than for me that is radical. But I actually thought that all politicians should be able to reflect on and explain their position on what things should be like when it comes to privacy, and what we allowed by storage and registration. And so I also thought that many people have made interesting contributions that point out that when there are new developments in society, there are new crimes that require new instruments. But I would like to encourage the same kind of reflection on another aspect of social development, that when most people who are sitting here grew up, information about others was scarce. It was very difficult to get good information about people other than those who were close to one, and a lot of resources to do it. But it's already the opposite of it. Huge amounts of information and knowledge about us are super easy to access and can be used in a huge number of ways. How does it challenge the discussion about privacy, about integrity, about the individual's freedom in society? Nor did I think that many of those who have argued for the directive have taken over and reflected on their articles. So then I quit – I just can't do that after listening to the Progress Party and the Right this evening – by saying: Good luck to you! They may need it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3238	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and in this round gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3241	I would like to thank the representative, Mr Solhjell, for his congratulations. Just a few short notes at the very end of the debate. It's completely impossible to think of anything to say that can turn the majority, so I'm not going to try that either. Therefore, only two brief comments: Some have called for alternative proposals – alternatives to the Data Storage Directive. Yes, they can be found in a number of other settings in Stortinget. Among other things, the Judicial Committee operates and deals with a news report on organised crime, and there are options to provide the police with the tools necessary to combat organised crime and terrorism. This is in the direction of what the police wanted in 2005: more of the existing methods. Then I would also like to say, considering what I said about height of fall: Yes, I say that because it is now creating great expectations for the police. If you can't get the clearance rate up and fight crime, I think the police get a drop height. The same applies to the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3251	Snorre Serigstad Valen has had the word twice and in this round gets the word to a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3254	The alternative to adopting the Data Storage Directive is not to adopt the Data Storage Directive, not to weaken the protection of sources, not to introduce an disproportionate interference in human privacy and not to increase the risk of personal data being diverted. We all knew that this debate would be like that, and that is disturbing enough. But what really worries me is that, after the directive has been adopted before the European Union’s evaluation and before the National Court of Justice meeting, it has been willing to completely reject the validity of central and principal privacy considerations. That's because we're facing technological developments, the few of us today can reach the reach of. If the attitudes to source protection, privacy and important principles that we have seen today from the Labour Party and the Right are to be the attitudes we face the challenges of the future, we really have a job ahead of us, and then we have even more important battles to win in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3261	Anne Marit Bjørnfacen has had the word twice and in this round gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3264	The data protection directive that eco-providers can only store IP addresses for up to three weeks has exacerbated the police’s ability to investigate serious crime, such as the spread of child abuse images. In its comments, the minority did not wish to extend the storage obligation of IP addresses, despite the fact that even the Data Protection Authority has proposed a five-month storage period. Today, however, some representatives of the minority have, among other things. the Minister for Transport, called for the extension of their storage obligations. But that possibility doesn't grip the minority. The minority could choose to support the parts of the legislative proposal they agree with and could choose to promote alternative proposals. But they don't. Thus, the minority does not just show that they are not combined about a national alternative. They also show a refusal of decision and irresponsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3271	I would also like to thank you for a long and comprehensive debate. In contrast to the representative Solhjell, I must say that it gives more taste to be a majority! I just want to say briefly about this that goes on for costs: a unanimous increase in the number of health records previously decided to encrypt – without a cost overview, and with notice that this had to be taken into account in the annual budgets. It is also true in this case. Police are currently paying for the collection of traffic data, and providers are now required to store data related to crime prevention. A model for the calculation and distribution of costs between providers and the police and judicial sectors will be developed. Privacy will cost. Finally, it is possible to try to reconcile that we have had a different approach to anti-crime instruments. We also have a different approach to what should be understood as privacy. In contrast to the Progress Party, the Right does not have a Partyal. We also intend to be serious partners who intend to comply, so that we can take care not only of measures to combat crime, but also of substantial and broad protection and strengthening of privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3282	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. One, two, three. [[See pages 3266, 3269 and 3270]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3298	In this case, there is no proposal for speaking time arrangements. We've already got one registered speaker. This is the rapporteur on the matter, Mr Sønsterud. The President will make it clear that when speaking time is 30 minutes, it means to a great extent until now. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3306	I notice that, President! The matter we are now dealing with, Innst. 262 S for 2010–2011 Changes in the State budget for 2011 under the Ministry of Justice and Police, Prop. 72 S for 2010–2011 is initially a fairly simple matter. It is a matter of paying part-payment of deliveries for the first stage of construction of Nødnett, for which the supplier should have actually been delivered and paid for in the financial year 2010, but which is due to delays in delivery, which we are all familiar with, now is due to be paid early in 2011. So this bill has to be paid before the revision. Therefore, a separate proposition is promoted. This was notified at the effusion last year, so there is no news either. I put forward a unanimous opinion on the matter and would like to point out that the Committee is satisfied that this change in the State budget represents only a time shift of a payment milestone from the 2010 budget, see. Prop. 21 S for 2010–2011, without representing a cost increase in the project. Here I could have stopped my post, but I find reason to comment on some comments from the opposition. First, to the comment on the expectation that the evaluation of the first phase will be quickly presented to the Stortinget, so that the Stortinget can quickly take a decision to possibly move forward with the development of the new emergency network across the country. I refer – as has also been done in previous cases on Emergency Network – to the Ministry of Justice and Police's Prop. 1 S, which sets out the two-step decision of the Storting in connection with the treatment of the Innst. S No 104 for 2006-2007, cf. St. pp. No 30 for 2006-2007. It also shows that the government will come back to Stortinget with a detailed assessment of the issue of nationwide development, i.e. step 2 of the Emergency Network, when evaluation and quality assurance have been completed. Furthermore, allocation needs have been taken into account in 2011 as a result of any decision on nationwide development. So to the majority’s observation that several municipalities report increased costs related to the operation of the new Emergency Network, and that the real costs of the municipality must be made visible and fully compensated. To that end, the development of a new radiocommunication system for fire services, police and health services, i.e. emergency networks, is decided by the Stortinget. All emergency budgets need to update existing emergency contact solutions, and Emergency networks are a common system to meet the needs of all departments. All municipalities, based on fire and health legislation, are obliged to establish and operate a proper emergency service for the municipality fire service and for the part of the community health service. The development of the emergency network as decided and implemented means that the State finances the entire investment in new radio networks, communication centres and radio terminals for emergency situations, including for municipal users. The total investment costs, if the Storting adopts nationwide expansion, are above 4 billion. kr. For municipalities, the option would be in a short time and with its own means to renew and build separate emergency networks that meet today’s requirements. Although the State covers all the investment costs, municipalities, as at present, must continue to bear the costs of their use of the emergency service in the fire service and in the municipal health service. Emergency user costs correspond to the total operating costs. These are distributed among users according to a proposed model. Both KS and municipal representatives have participated in the development of the user payment model. It has been suggested that the model be evaluated when it has been in use for some time, and when you have more experience. It's in St.prp. No 30 for 2006-2007 provided that, overall, municipalities will not have a significant increase in their costs of emergency contact. Several studies have been carried out on the cost of emergency contact before the introduction of the Emergency Network, most recently by SINTEF Health in the autumn of 2008. SINTEF Health has similarly estimated the costs of the facilities after the deployment of Emergency Networks based on the experience of Step 1. This information will be included in the evaluation base, and the user costs will be mentioned in the forthcoming call for proposals on Emergency Networks notified in spring 2011. So to the majority's remarks about the delay. The contract concluded for the supply of Emergency Network provides the supplier with total responsibility. The supplier shall provide a complete, ready-to-use installation where all technical components are to be completed and interact before the State acquires ownership. The contract also includes an operational and maintenance agreement that gives the supplier responsibility for building up and providing the ongoing operator services for the entire life of the emergency network. The supplier is responsible for planning and implementing the deployment of the radio network. Furthermore, the supplier is responsible for delivering equipment to fire, police and health communication centres. Given that the supplier complies with the present progress plan, this implies a delay of about three years for the last parts of the delivery. This is the committee informed about the past, and I just remind you that this digital emergency network is among the most advanced in its class in the world, and the many stakeholders are making the project Norway's perhaps most complex ICT project ever. The uncertainty associated with the gap between the two lines of development has created challenges for all involved, and it is now important to go further, too, in order to avoid the loss of important competences and costly costs. The Committee is aware that the government has announced, as I have mentioned, a big message on further nationwide expansion in the spring of 2011, and the Stortinget will then have a broad and profound debate on the matter. That matter is about today, in short, we are only going to decide to grant back the funds that were adjusted in the fall of 2010, so that the state can meet the payment milestones that have been shifted to the spring of 2011. The matter is important enough, because it is about completing step 1 and getting on with the process of expanding this network that will benefit the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3342	The next speaker is Bård Hoksrud. It would be nice to calm down in the back of the hall, so we can hear what the representative Hoksrud has to say on the occasion of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3347	Thank you for that. This is a matter which has often been a problem in Stortinget since the beginning. So now, too. The difference between this case and the previous cases is that now it's just about having to fix what you really thought you were going to use last year. Now you're going to use it this year. I still think it is important to reflect on some of the issues you have experienced with the emergency network. Firstly, there have been great delays in the introduction of the first phase. There are now three years of delay, and we know that there may be challenges ahead. We know that the cost growth has been enormously high in some places where the new emergency network has been introduced. I know that, among other things, The fire service in Rome has received a huge cost increase, which is far greater than what was foreseen when the Storting dealt with the matter. We now know that there is a matter for Stortinget. I hope that it is not such that it will take a long time before that matter comes to Stortinget, so that an urgent procedure in Stortinget is at risk, without having a proper procedure on the matter. I see that the State Council, which is really responsible for the matter, is not here, but I see that another State Council is asking for the floor, and I hope that you will soon be able to get more information on the matter that you in the Emergency Communications Directorate – when we were there – would expect to come to the Stortinget in March. I cannot yet see that there has been any case for Stortinget. That's important, because you're about to lose the skills that have been used to build the first construction step. It would be stupid if you don't have that competence when you're building this emergency network all over the country. For all those who work in emergency situations, there is no way back – you have to put the new emergency network in place – and that it is absolutely vital for the job of those who are out every day, those who are in the war, to do for society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3360	I'm just going to sign out two things. The only thing is that this case is about – as the case-speaker has already underlined – a shift of costs, a new periodicisation. That's it. And then I'm going to say that I've noticed what's now being said about the Storting waiting for a new case about Emergency Step 2. It is therefore true that something has been said about evaluation and quality assurance before the matter comes to Stortingen, but she is here now. So I'm assuming it's going to be like this. I will pass on to the responsible State Council what has been said here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3367	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3270]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3375	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3383	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party and the Socialist Left Party, proposal No. 2, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 3 and 4, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party, the Central Party and the Socialist Left Party, says: ‘The size defers the possible implementation of the Data Storage Directive to the revision of the EU.’ Proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, says: ‘The size assumes that, if the Data Storage Directive is introduced, an evaluation submitted to the Stortinget shall be carried out at the latest 3 years after its entry into force including the consequences of changes to the EU DLD and changes to the EU Data Protection Act.’; [[DLD]] Proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, says: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for strengthening the monitoring capacity of the PST and the Oslo Police.’ Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The government asks the Government to review the Criminal Procedures Act §§ 216 a–216 d, 216 m and the Police Act § 17 d–e and to propose changes that lower the threshold for the monitoring of potential terrorists.’ Proposals Nos. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, 1 to 4 will be listed on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3666	The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3679	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they too will vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3693	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3703	In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, B will be entered on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3711	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Progress Party, the Socialist Left Party, the Centre Party and the Christian People's Party, proposal No. 2, by Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 1 is included in the setting, while proposal No. 2 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall. Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party and the Christian People's Party, says: ‘The size does not consent to participation in a decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive 2006/24/EC on the storage of data generated by the use of public electronic communications service or public electronic communications networks [[Data Storage Directive]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The left has announced that they want to support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3747	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Socialist Left Party, the Central Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The size defers consent to participation in a decision of the EEA Committee on the inclusion in the EEA Agreement of Directive 2006/24/EC on the storage of data generated by the use of a public electronic communications service or public electronic communications networks for the revision of the EU.’;» [[Data Storage Directive]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e3766	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. That is the proposal No. 1-4, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of the Left. The proposals are distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. Proposal No. 2, from the left, says: ‘The government is asking for legislative proposals that restrict access to the provision of traffic data, similar to the proposals and amendments to the Criminal Procedures Act §210(b) and 210(c) and new § 118(a) and 210(d) proposed in Prop. 49 L [[2010-2011]] Proposal No. 3, from the left, says: ‘The government is asking the government to launch a needs assessment as soon as possible to look at how different units in the police, including especially Kripos and PST, can combat serious crime with digital tools, with the existing homes and tools provided by the law. The study should focus in particular on the resources in terms of competence and the economy needed to make the situation satisfactory. The government is asked to follow up on the results of such an investigation of needs at the latest in proposals for the 2012 government budget.’ Proposal No. 4, from the left, says: ‘The government is asked to submit proposals requiring the police to keep sufficient records and statistics on the use of secret coercive agents, including communication control and communication data, so as to allow better ex post evaluation of methodology.’; Proposals Nos. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, 2 to 4 will list on the agenda as a matter of its own at a later meeting in Stortinget. The proposals of the Left have been submitted after the regulatory deadline, but since they are proposals presented in the vote, the President will not oppose voting on proposal No. 1, if it's all right with the hall. It seems to be. That is why we are voting on proposal No. One, from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decision to the Act amending Law No 4 July 2003 83 on electronic communications I, Act No. 4 July 2003 No. 83 on electronic communications is amended as follows: the new fourth sentence of the third paragraph of Section 2 to 9 shall be replaced by the following: the obligation of professional secrecy shall not preclude the provision of information to the prosecution authority or the police on the communications facilities connected with each other for a specified period of time and other data relating to communication, if there is a decision on disclosure requirements. Paragraph 2-9, fourth paragraph, shall be replaced by the following: Request by the prosecution authority or the police for information referred to in the first to third sentences of the third subparagraph shall be complied with unless specific circumstances render it inadvisable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-04-04.ana.ud528e4051	As a result, the cases on today's map have been completed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
