ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e80	Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform you that the meeting will continue beyond 1 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e96	The events in the Middle East and North Africa in the last six months give hope that dictatorships throughout the region will be replaced by democracies, and corrupt regimes of constitutional states with popular legitimacy. There's a reason to enjoy. At the same time, the conflict between Israel and neighbouring countries is equally remote from a solution, and the situation of 4.6 million Palestinian refugees is equally unclear. Many adult refugees have lived their entire lives in refugee camps. After 62 years, the camps still lack things like water and electricity supply. It's bad, but it's worse that the refugees don't have realistic prospects for either returning to Palestine or being able to build a stable future in another country. The Municipal and Administrative Committee visited Jordan, Syria and Lebanon during the month-end of February/March. We visited several refugee camps and schools run by UNRWA. We met refugees and representatives from the United Nations and from national authorities. It was a journey with many strong experiences. Not least, it made the impression of seeing the plight of refugee camps and of meeting competent, motivated young people who do not have the opportunity to complete either education or to get a job. In Beirut we visited Shatila, the camp where militiamen massacred about 800 people in 1982. We met people who live in exactly the same place, in the same house where the parents were killed. We saw how provisional water pipes and electrical installations were hanging on the outside of the houses, and we were told that children were killed by contact with electricity and water at the same time, for example. when a football stuck in the fuse of pipes and water pipes. There are many reasons why the Palestinian refugees are in the situation they are in. The starting point is the conflict with Israel. In addition, the countries of residence have had different attitudes to and granted different rights to the Palestinians. As the only neighbouring country, Jordan has given Palestinian refugees citizenship. In Syria, many Palestinians are well integrated. In Lebanon, the situation is different: they have no civil rights, are only entitled to specific jobs and are subject to discrimination, particularly in the labour and housing markets. There is reason to be concerned about Israel's violations of international law and the treatment of refugees by neighbouring countries. However, that is not the purpose of the interpellation. It's the United Nations, that is. UNRWA, work against Palestinian refugees who are in focus today. That's two more reasons. Firstly, UNRWA – after 62 years of activity – appears to be an organisation that needs to be reformed to both have legitimacy and meet the needs of an ever-increasing Palestinian refugee population. Secondly, Norway is among the largest donors. In addition, Norway has played an important role in reforming other parts of the UN system. There is therefore reason to believe that Norway can and will be consulted if we take the initiative. UNRWA is making an important effort in Gaza and the West Bank and in Lebanon, Syria and Jordan. By providing health services, education, microfinance, emergency aid and other assistance, they help to improve the living conditions of many people. The proportion of children completing primary school is very high, with only 2.6 pst. non-response. And 99.9 pst. all births are carried out with qualified personnel present. Then to the need for reform. The first thing I want to draw out is UNRWA's lack of focus on "resetment", or resettlement. Unlike the UN High Commissioner, UNRWA does not work with resettlement — to settle refugees in a new country where fundamental rights can be guaranteed. Originally, they were rehabilitating, but shrank this work, allegedly because of resistance in the host countries and among the refugees themselves. The Palestinian refugees and their descendants have the right to return to Palestine as soon as possible. Resettlement does not challenge the right of return. Like the other refugees in the world, it will be in the interests of the Palestinians to be able to receive education, take work and start their lives in a new country, rather than have to wait – wait for generations. The ideal would be if the Palestinians could return to an independent state tomorrow. It's not realistic. The question is what the United Nations is going to do in the meantime: help with a limited time horizon or solutions with a longer time horizon. In my view, demands should be made for UNRWA to resume work on resettlement, preferably in cooperation with the High Commissioner. The fact that many Palestinian youths choose to travel on their own shows that there is a need. According to UDI figures, it came about. 800 Palestinian asylum seekers to Norway in 2010. Neither of these have denied the right to return. Another important clarification for UNRWA is whether the organisation should assist all those who are considered Palestinian refugees or whether it should direct assistance to those refugees who really need help. It makes little sense if UNRWA helps well-integrated second- and third-generation Jordanian citizens. And it makes little sense that UNRWA schools are educating students who could use the school offer in the host country. The number of refugees covered by UNRWA’s mandate continues to increase — from less than 1 million Palestinians displaced in 1948 to 4.6 million today. This development cannot continue. If UNRWA is to embrace more and more, it will challenge both the economic sustainability of the organisation and develop into a political problem. With 29 000 employees, UNRWA is today the United Nations' largest organisation. 99 pst. by their employees are Palestinians. Many are refugees themselves. This is unique in the UN context. In his report, ‘Fixing UNRWA’, the American James Lindsay, who has been the legal director of the organisation, points out that close links between the employees and beneficiaries of assistance in the worst cases can cause employees to become more concerned with the needs of the recipients than with the objectives of the organisation. With Israel’s behaviour in Gaza, it is easy to understand that UNRWA – yes, in any relief organisation – employees are sympathetic to the Palestinians. At the same time, UNRWA must hold on to their role, to help the refugees. It is neither in the interest of the United Nations nor of the Palestinians that UNRWA becomes part of a political struggle against Israel. The fourth and last thing I want to mention is the criticism that UNRWA has received to give priority to short-term relief measures such as cash contributions rather than education, work and other tools for integration in the host countries. In Syria, we met students who received vocational training. Everyone who has completed the school's design line has got a job right away. Almost as good were the results for the students who took the pharmacy. It is important both for the individual’s self-respect and dignity and for the Palestinian society that UNRWA prioritises measures that can help the refugees to support themselves and their families. In our conversations with representatives of the local management of UNRWA, we talked about reforms. There is little doubt that the organisation is striving financially, and that management has a focus on rationalising operations, for example: by postponing investment and using new technologies. I am more in doubt if UNRWA's management wants to move decision-making authority and resources from administration to active field work. More money was the review response we got on questions about how the organisation can do things differently. In Lebanon, we were told that the authorities were positive about building infrastructure – water and electricity pipelines – in refugee camps like Shatila. UNRWA still had no plans to get this job done. For 63 years, Palestinians have been throwing balls between Israel and neighbouring countries, seeing them travel as quickly as possible. Their own leaders have been corrupt, and the celebrations in spite: the world community has not contributed to long-term solutions. In this image, UNRWA is a light point. Without UNRWA, the humanitarian disaster we are already seeing today would be far worse. UNRWA is doing an important job, a job no one else can do. But precisely because the organisation is so important, it needs to be renewed so that it can also play its role in the future. I am curious about how the Minister of Foreign Affairs assesses UNRWA's reform needs, and what he thinks about Norway's ability to contribute to reforms that will give Palestinian refugees a better life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e132	I would like to thank the representative Haugli for putting the spotlight on the United Nations Relief and Works Organisation for Palestinian Refugees, UNRWA, which, in my view, is the most important United Nations organisation in the Middle East – ‘a beacon’, called the organisation – the lifeline for millions of Palestinian refugees in Gaza, on the West Bank, in Jordan, Syria and Lebanon. All first — before I come to the issue of reform and Norway’s support — some comments on the inter-pellant’s comparison of UNRWA with the UN High Commissioner for Refugees. It's an interesting comparison, and more have done it before. These are two UN organisations which have different mandates and are therefore not fully and immediately comparable. The UNHCR has a global mandate to assist refugees, whether internally displaced or forced to flee their homeland because of war, conflict or natural disasters. The UNHCR provides refugees with protection and humanitarian assistance where they are located, and assists in ensuring that these people are returned to their homes when the situation permits. If the refugees cannot return where they came from, unfortunately in many cases, the UNHCR, in cooperation with the world community and other organisations, can ensure that refugees can be resettled in a third country. The mandate of UNRWA, however, is different. The organisation was established by the UN General Assembly in 1949 to assist the Palestinians as refugees in the establishment of the State of Israel. They fled to the West Bank, Gaza, Jordan, Syria and Lebanon. Continued to live about 30 pst. of the registered refugees in refugee camps. The share that lives in camps varies slightly, from 17 pst. in Jordan to 45 p.m. in Gaza. These variations have political and humanitarian reasons. Under UN General Assembly Resolution 194, Article 11, these refugees and their descendants, to whom the representative was assigned, have the right to return to their homes. This is what is referred to when reference is made to the so-called right of return. The right of return is one of the final status issues to be resolved through negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians. The question is of major importance to the Palestinians, to the Palestinian leadership and, above all, to the Arab countries which are currently host countries for these refugees. This is why the issue of integration into the host countries and the resettlement of Palestinian refugees in third countries is an up-to-date issue as long as the negotiations on the right of return of refugees have not been concluded. In this situation, Palestinian refugees at UNRWA see as a guarantor that their cause is not forgotten by the international community. UNRWA's responsibility for Palestinian refugees will therefore continue until the negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians have been concluded and a final solution to the conflict has been found. This is a reality that the international community, including Israel, has accepted and dealt with. So to the issue of reform needs, and how Norway can contribute. I fully agree – so it is said – that UNRWA, like many of the UN special organisations, needs reform. Let me add a few words about the situation of the organisation and the role it has. Norway considers UNRWA to be one of the main humanitarian aid channels for Palestinian refugees in the Middle East. UNRWA is in reality a form of health and education organisation. It has more than 480,000 primary school students in nearly 700 schools. The organisation operates 137 health centres and more than 100 community centres, where women, children and disabled people receive help and follow-up. In addition, the organisation employs around 30,000 Palestinian refugees, mainly teachers, doctors, nurses and social workers. In other words, UNRWA has a major impact on the Palestinian refugee population, both as a service provider and as an employer. Through its contribution to improving the living conditions of a large population group in the region, UNRWA is helping to stabilise the situation in an area of conflict and social unrest. The development of recent months underlines the importance of this. Like many other UN organisations, UNRWA has faced major economic challenges in recent years. Our time is marked by the fact that many important donor countries to the UN experience great economic difficulties at home. High unemployment, budget deficits and demanding conversion processes in your own economy and administration make it difficult to maintain – not to talk about increasing – the aid budgets. That's a shame, and for UNRWA, this is particularly unfortunate. The UNRWA budgets are mainly covered by voluntary contributions and not by the regular budgets covering the mandatory contributions of the Member States to the UN. When donor countries cut support for the UN, it turns out that voluntary contributions go first. At the same time, the Palestinian refugee population has a natural growth of 2.5 pst. annual, nor is it prudent for the economic downturn and the increased demand for UNRWA services resulting from this situation. All of this has led to a situation where the needs increase steadily, but where the donor contributions are at best constant, at worst decreasing. This is not going up, and in recent years UNRWA has had to cut the offer – which goes beyond what is absolutely necessary – by increasing the size of school classes, freezing investment in buildings and equipment, cutting down on staff training and introducing a number of other immediate measures to balance budgets. If we are to find a long-term and sustainable solution to these challenges, which are fundamental and structural, we need to do more things at once. The organisation’s effectiveness and rationalisation are essential. In 2007, UNRWA, with the support of donor countries and with Norway pushing, launched a comprehensive reform process to strengthen the organisation’s administrative capacity and to ensure more efficient services for refugees. The first phase of this reform process, called ‘Organisational Change, 2007–2010’, was completed last year, and we are now in the next phase, called ‘Sustaining Change, 2011–2013’, where the impact of the initial reforms is evaluated, and reforms continue where needed. These involve concrete measures to improve the efficiency of e.g.: the health and education programme, while ensuring increased quality in the provision of these services. At the same time, increased efficiency in the organisation is an important measure to reduce the need for ever-increasing donor contributions. The donor countries also have a job to do. It is a fact that only ten countries, including Norway, contribute more than 90 pst. by UNRWA budgets. That is why we need a more balanced burden-sharing among donor countries. We also need to expand the donor country group, which today consists mainly of the United States, the EU and Western European countries. The Arab countries must get on the road. Now we should also remember that several of these countries have many Palestinian refugees on their own land. In 1987 the Arab League set the goal of contributing 7.8 p.m. to Arab countries. by UNRWA budgets. But as of today, their share is only 1 pst. In other words, there's a long piece left to achieve its own goal, but if they get up to such a level, it'll help. As a third measure, we have proposed that a greater part of the UNRWA budget should come from the regular budgets of the United Nations. Today, UNRWA gets about 6 pst. of its resources from the regular budgets. This is too small, it creates little predictability for the organisation, and makes its operations vulnerable to the ability and willingness of donor countries to contribute from year to year. Norway has been a significant contributor and supporter to UNRWA for many years. We contribute with regular operating support – 150 million. kr annually. In addition, we contribute funds to key strategic projects. Let me mention two such projects, and why they are important. In Gaza, together with the United States, we have supported the development and implementation of mandatory human rights education. In all UNRWA 228 schools in Gaza, more than 200,000 children receive instruction in the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the historical background of the declaration. The curriculum and learning methods are designed to engage students and develop critical thinking. This teaching is unique in the Arab world and an important counterweight to radicalisation and intolerance. I can't imagine any more suitable place to teach human rights than in Gaza. Another project we're financing is the establishment of a number of women's centres in Gaza. Women are in a particularly vulnerable situation. Family violence is a major problem as a result of high unemployment, poverty, and many have traumas from war and conflict. Through these centres, Palestinian women get help and inspiration to get out of work, participate in public life and claim their rights. I mention these examples as examples that Norway, which gives, is concerned that UNRWA has a positive impact on the situation of the refugee population. But we have also been a driving force in the reform processes. Through our participation in UNRWA's advisory body and in our work in the UN General Assembly, we have been clear on the needs for reform and for better long-term solutions. In January of this year, I met UNRWA's General Commissioner, Filippo Grandi, here in Oslo, and we had an open and good discussion about how we can best help solve these problems. He also made it clear that he appreciates the efforts and ideas Norway has to make in this field. The situation of the refugees is unique and peculiar. The proposals that refugees could be more repatriated, integrated into the countries they are, undermine the fundamental fact that they are entitled to return to a conflict that is still ongoing. This is one of the final status issues, and my experience in conversations with Palestinian leaders is that relinquishing that principle before there is a final solution is bad strategy and bad tactics. Then, as donors, we need to ensure that the UN does its job as well as possible, that an organisation that is absolutely crucial to Palestinian refugees is well-managed, run sensibly and operates rationally, and that we make our contribution to a peace process that needs to be the instrument that will provide the ultimate solution for the future of this group – a group that has been treated unworthy and deserves a different future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e185	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good answer. It is great that Norway is already making an effort in this area, and I fully agree that we must contribute to more things happening at once. The effectiveness and rationalisation of UNRWA is important, and at the same time it is important that donor countries do their own. Budget cuts are not the answer in a situation where needs are increasing. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs also stresses the need for more balanced burden-sharing and the desire for UNRWA to have a greater share of its resources over regular budgets. My starting point is not that aid for Palestinian refugees has become too expensive. My starting point is that the needs are high and increasing, and that UNRWA needs more resources. If they succeed over time, there must be changes. Many times the demand for reform is actually something else: politically motivated disagreement about purpose. UNRWA has received a lot of criticism, especially from environments that are critical to Palestinian self-government, and I am very pleased that the government has a completely different starting point. Just because we're among Palestinian and UNRWA's friends, there are opportunities for us to be heard. With regard to the comparison between UNRWA and UNHCR, I would like to clarify that I see and understand that the organisations have different mandates. However, it should not prevent them both from working on resettlement or from cooperating on it. The right of return should not prevent Palestinian refugees wishing to do so from being given the possibility of resettlement in third countries guaranteeing their fundamental rights and living conditions. In addition, I am concerned that there is a requirement to build infrastructure in refugee camps and to invest in education. In my view, this is UNRWA's most important activities. I look forward to the further debate and hope that today we can focus on the humanitarian situation of the Palestinians and the reform needs of UNRWA.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e200	The representative Haugli's initial question and this comment set the framework for this debate in a very good way, and I commend him for it. There is a necessary debate on an organisation and a matter that Norway contributes to both with funds and political commitment. I have not experienced that the management of UNRWA – the current or the previous that I have met – is opposed to reform. On the contrary, I perceive that they are working quite intensively to find the right grips. But this is a debate about two slightly different dimensions. One is: how do you help a group of people who are increasing in size when the budgets go down? It is a classic dilemma, as the representative Haugli now said, there is a need for more resources. He pointed to some needs. He pointed to infrastructure and education. Anyone who has been close to or inside these refugee camps sees that the list is long of unmet needs. So it requires more resources. They can show in two ways that the resources that are used more effectively – we need to – but they need more resources, especially when the refugee population is increasing. So the principal question is very interesting. This concerns the resettlement and the relationship with the UN High Commissioner. This is, of course, a theme that travels great decisions in principle and in politics. In isolation, you could see that you maintain the right to return if you are resettled. But as the representative Haugli has encountered refugees in the camps, this is politically very, very controversial for a population living with the notion that they are in a temporary situation, even though the temporary situation may have lasted more than 60 years, and even if in fact two generations have experienced being born into the refugee camps – some of us marked 1 May through an action that Norsk Folkehelp had. So it is at these two levels that the discussion really goes on: how can UNRWA, with its current mandate, operate better, more efficiently, and how can we contribute to it? And on the other hand, the fundamental discussions about the status of the refugees. The sum of both is that UNRWA is a lifeline for Palestinian refugees, and without that organization they would be left to an even more miserable everyday life, and they would become even more fertile land for extremist forces that will capture especially young minds and hearts to their cause. It has impressed me to see in Gaza how UNRWA, with great courage, has managed to oppose some of Hamas' attempts to get through with teaching in schools by lingering on a curriculum that lives up to international standards. We're going to be very careful to do something that weakens that opportunity, because it's a defense against another pretty heavy pressure on these young people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e211	First, I would like to thank the representative Haugli for taking up an interpellation on the Palestinian refugees. It's a question that I've been very committed to for many years. Then I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a very good answer, highlighting the important task that UNRWA has in the Middle East. The Palestinian refugee problem has a long history. The establishment of the State of Israel and the war that followed led to more than 700,000 Palestinians being driven away from their homes, and villages being leveled with the earth. Refugees went to neighbouring countries around, where refugee camps were established. In the wake of this, which has also been mentioned, UNRWA was launched by the United Nations to assist them as refugees. Since the establishment of the State of Israel and with the subsequent wars and conflicts we have had until now – and still have – many more have also been driven on the run. Today, it is estimated that the number of refugees in the area is between 4.5 and 5 million people. The same number of people live in Norway, to put it in perspective. UN Resolution 194 underlines the right of refugees to return to their homeland and to receive compensation for property loss. This is a resolution that has not been complied with or recognised by Israel and is today one of the key points that must be resolved in order to reach a future peace agreement. The representative Haugli asks why so many still live in refugee camps. The answer to that is, they do it because as long as there has been no political solution between Israel and the Palestinians, and as long as the right to return is not established, it is really impossible to live in any other country. It would, in my view, be a disaster if Palestinian refugees were to be settled in a third country without the issue of right of return being resolved. The issue of refugee is closely linked to the main problem, namely that the Palestinian people have still not got their own state. If we are to get a solution to the refugee problem, get a stop in the repression of the Palestinian people, we have to get a solution. In my view, the situation is not particularly bright, and I am concerned about reaching a lasting peace agreement. The humanitarian situation of the refugees in the camps is very demanding. We see, for example: in Lebanon, how refugees fight for the right to participate in the labour market. Even I have visited several camps, and experienced the despair and frustration that exist there. As far as UNRWA is concerned, I believe, like the Minister of Foreign Affairs, that it is the most important United Nations organization in the Middle East that ensures that refugees are still on the international agenda, that they are given health and education assistance, and that many are given work. This does not mean that the organisation does not need to be improved. Like many UN organisations, there is also a need for reform. And as the Minister for Foreign Affairs pointed out, there is work for a more efficient and targeted organisation. Norway is an important contributor to UNRWA. Of course, we need to use the channels we have to contribute to positive development and to pursue the reform process in the future. I also believe it is important to provide the organisation with an economic foundation to enable them to carry out their tasks. The fact that UNRWA’s budgets are not covered by the regular budgets of the United Nations but by voluntary contributions from Member States is, of course, a challenge at a time when many countries are cutting their aid budgets. UNRWA explains on its websites that the reason for this is that when the organisation was set up, the UN and the Member States thought it would be in the interest of both the organisation and the refugees to make a voluntary contribution. I would think that it would make more sense with a more stable and predictable funding. The situation of the Palestinian refugees and the Palestinian people calls for a peaceful solution for the international community. UNRWA is doing an incredibly important job here. It is necessary that countries such as Norway support this work and contribute to improving the organisation in order to assist refugees as best they can.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e237	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing an important issue. The situation of UNRWA is demanding, and I would also like to stress, as many have pointed out, that the final solution to the situation of the Palestinian refugees must be found in the form of a political solution, a political agreement. I want to start with the events we're now seeing in the Arab world, which can also affect the situation of UNRWA, perhaps faster than anyone had thought. A few months ago, a Palestinian refugee boy died in Lebanon for eleven years; he did not receive medical treatment. The family felt this, naturally, deeply tragic, and left a little bit of responsibility on UNRWA's organization. They wanted a normal life – fully understandable. It is a bit of the dilemma we are facing, that while we are waiting for a political solution, while the Palestinian leadership, as the Foreign Minister says, talks about that it will be a bad strategy, poor tactics to reintegrate — resettlement — the refugees, grow new generations to and experience that their quality of life is worse than many others. The beginning of UNRWA was important. UNRWA has achieved a lot. The question now is whether UNRWA delivers correctly in relation to today’s challenges. Then the situation is very different, whether we compare it with the situation in Gaza and the West Bank, Syria, Lebanon or Jordan. Not least in the case of Jordan, how many have received citizenship, there is reason to ask questions as to whether it is the responsibility of the United Nations to provide health, education and other services to people with citizenship in the country in which they live. That is a timely question, which I believe must be asked. Similarly, there is reason to ask questions about whether more needs testing of UNRWA assistance is needed. Is it so that middle-class Palestinians also need assistance? I'm not trying to represent it as if all the Palestinians are in such a situation, far from it, but there are great differences. It is Palestinians who have the ability to pay for some of the services they receive from UNRWA. Is it time to look at whether you can demand specialities for education and for health care? These are people who initially do not pay taxes where they live but get all their basic welfare services provided. These are natural questions to ask. The Foreign Minister was concerned that we have to work to ensure that these people, and especially the young, are not further radicalized. That's a point of view I fully share. But the question is, what happens in a situation where we have people who get the basic health and welfare services covered and who can dedicate their lives to other activities, and where there are no other, greater demands on them in such a situation? They become passive recipients. So many of us have felt that UNRWA has been too political in many situations. I don't think it serves the position of UNRWA. UNRWA should initially address humanitarian issues and limit itself to them. Where appropriate, opinions on policies must come from other sources of the United Nations system and not from UNRWA's management. It helps to give the impression that UNRWA has a political agenda. The last thing I want to mention is the need to have stricter criteria in recruiting officials and ensuring that they do not have links with organisations on different terrorist lists.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e252	First, I would also like to pay tribute to the interpellant to raise an important issue. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, like the Municipal and Administrative Committee, has recently returned from a visit to the Middle East where these issues were also a major part of the subject. We also had a meeting with Filippo Grandi, who is the head of UNRWA. It gave an impression of a lot of things going on, but it also gave the impression of some big, big challenges. Norway is a major link between UNRWA and donor countries. It's especially related to our position in AHLC. This is why the work that Norway is doing is also important. UNRWA has been in the Middle East for 62 years, as several have pointed out, and then has approximately the following job distribution with its contributions: 60 pst. budgets are largely devoted to education. It is the core job, and the core job is the youngest year classes – 1st to 9th grade. It is also part of humanitarian work. It is not a particularly large part of UNRWA's work today, but the majority of humanitarian work goes to Gaza. They also operate microcredit projects, as many people have been involved in. It is worth noting that one third of UNRWA's business is to take care of two thirds of the population in Gaza. It's a big task, and it also tells us something about the importance of getting reforms that help make this work more effective. What also separates Gaza from much of what happens in the region is that the economy there is not a proper economy. It is either illegal or largely subsidized, which means that it is not a real economic engine that can cope with much of the need for an ever-increasing proportion of the population who have these needs. There are also differences between countries where the Palestinian refugees are. There are places where there are more stable and the refugees have more rights, and there are other places where they don't have the same rights. In 2010, Norway used about 221 million. NOK 800 million for UNRWA. kr to the Palestinian Territories. That means that there is more than a quarter of the budget going through UNRWA, and that also means that there is a lot of it that stands and falls on what UNRWA is doing in relation to what Norway is doing in the region. Several people have raised the question of how many employees UNRWA have and how they dispose of their money. I thought I'd deal with the issue of reform, because it's quite clear that the need for reform is great – it's not just UNRWA, it's the United Nations system as a whole. And one issue that has not yet been raised here is the very hope of a new strategy, where the UN is more ‘delive than one’, that is, able to coordinate the various roles and tasks of the United Nations in order to obtain more effective assistance and assistance. In the context of the reform programme, Norway has been a driving force in a number of areas in particular. One is openness and transparency, which is very important in an organisation that gets a lot of money from Norway, and the other is accountability standards that will make it easier to check the projects afterwards and what the money has done. Not least, the reform agenda has largely succeeded in achieving better coordination both with the countries of the region and with other UN organisations active in the area. It is clear that major challenges remain, and I believe that Norway, as a major donor, needs to make clear demands in the reform process. We have a special and quite unique position in the region that enables us to make demands, both in the United Nations system and also towards the authorities of those countries that accept refugees. Nor do I think it should be borne in mind that this is a process that must now take place throughout the United Nations system. The fact that there is such a great need for reform throughout the UN system shows that Norway, as a major donor – and perhaps especially as a major donor of core contributions – has a voice that we need to use to get a better solution for those we want to help. Otherwise, of course, I end up with what has been said in the past also about the question of resettlement and the need for an agreement that can ensure the refugees better than what is happening today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e275	Let me first thank the representative Haugli for raising this interpellation and the Minister for Foreign Affairs for the answer. The issue is demanding. The United Nations Relief and Works Organisation for Palestinian Refugees in the Middle East has a major need for reform, but the organisation is unable to fully meet this need within the mandate it has been given, and not least within the political framework conditions it operates in the Middle East. For 62 years UNRWA has had an important role for Palestinian refugees in Jordan, Lebanon, Syria and the Palestinian territories in the West Bank and Gaza. The Auxiliary Organisation has provided basic social services, such as education, healthcare and emergency services. About 30,000 people are now employed to provide these services, and almost all are even Palestinian refugees. At the same time, however, the mandate and strategy have helped to bind many Palestinians to refugee conditions and prevent them from becoming integrated and self-held. From the Christian People's Party we see the value of the role of UNRWA as a social security network for an vulnerable population. Education and health are fundamental needs and the employment effect is socially stabilising. Large contributors like the United States also pay attention to this. The authorities of Israel have also confirmed their support for UNRWA despite concerns about the politicisation of the organisation, as also mentioned by the representative of Höglund. When, on the part of the Christian People's Party, we underline the need for reform, it is not to suggest that much good work is done. Let me give two concrete examples: UNRWA has helped to strengthen the knowledge of human rights, among other things. through Norwegian-supported education in primary schools. That Hamas has been so critical of including the teaching of the Holocaust, the Nazi genocide against the Jews, is regrettable and reflects their attempt to deny the fact in order to prevent sympathy with the Jewish fate. And: UNRWA's summer camps have gained a lot of excitement in the last few years among youth in Gaza. In fact, they are perceived as dangerous competitors for the summer events of Hamas, which promote more indoctrination, hatred and violence. UNRWA has been working on an organisational reform since 2007. The management capacity is slightly improved, but the limited capacity of UNRWA to reform and streamline remains a problem. It has several reasons. One of them is the mandate of the organisation. It is linked to the right of Palestinian refugees to return in such a way as to bind them to permanent refugee status pending a negotiated solution to the Middle East conflict. I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is the negotiated solution that must be at the bottom in order to also solve the major social problems associated with the situation of refugees. However, questions also need to be asked about what kind of action can be taken to meet these social needs, and not just to think about what is purely politically tactically appropriate in order to safeguard the political rights and needs of the Palestinians. The surrounding Arab countries also have other reasons to accentuate the Palestinians' character of permanent refugees. It has made their ability to create a future as an integral part of the host communities in which they have lived over half a century. The contrast to how the United Nations country is generally asked to treat and integrate refugees from political conflict areas is thought-provoking and relevant. With the definition used, the number of UNRWA-registered refugees continues to increase. At the same time, the revenue base of the organisation is failing because it is extremely dependent on voluntary contributions. Until now, Western countries have not been able to get oil-rich Arab countries to take the necessary co-responsibility. The gap between the increasing number of beneficiaries and the actual budgets must be addressed. Some suggest testing for needs or a form of limited self-financing of UNRWA services to concentrate more on those who need it most, so as to maximise the humanitarian aid effect. These are relevant proposals. It has also been demonstrated that the average assistance provided by UNRWA to each Palestinian refugee is much higher than that provided by the UNHCR per refugee in other conflict areas. I think it would be interesting if the Minister for Foreign Affairs could reflect on the questions: Should UNRWA choose to test needs or fund equity to some extent in order to strengthen assistance for those with the greatest needs? And should Norway strengthen its assistance to give Palestinian refugees the rights and opportunities to integrate into the host communities in which they have lived for many decades, for social and humanitarian reasons? Or are we just going to lean on the political-tactical considerations that are obviously present, but which make people live worse?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e298	First of all, a big, big thank you to the interpellant who travels a theme that is enormously difficult. He snorts away in our bad conscience, and that's never quite right. He addresses the debasing conditions of Palestine's refugees through generations, among others. of the Western world, including us. UNRWA is an attempt to remedy the injustice, “even the lifeline of millions of Palestinian refugees in Gaza, on the West Bank, in Jordan, Syria and Lebanon”, as the Council of State stresses in its article – a good image, the lifeline. The problem is that the lifeline is not strong enough. On the trip of the Municipal Committee in the Middle East, we saw it to the full. Someone at UNRWA's help has their head over water, others don't. Interpellation turns into a timely question: Can we, as donor countries, contribute to reforms that can give the Palestinians a better life? So we were in Jordan, Syria and Lebanon. Lebanon was the worst. We saw this by visiting several refugee camps, among others. Shatila in Beirut. The tracks after the massacre in 1982 were still there. It was garbage, lack of water, electrical wires that hung in jacks. Every day people in the camp died, adults who shot broken wires, children who wanted to pick up a ball like the country in the pipelines. What if someone took those bastards away, for example? Norway? At the same time, we could teach some electricians with a letter. I have asked EL & IT for advice from the Minister for Foreign Affairs if they can help. Then we could get a little, positive result after our trip – we'll see. After all, this year's 1st May collection was directed by Norwegian People's Aid for Palestinian Refugees. What I now also know is that EL & IT and Statnett are running a similar project in Gaza – so maybe? If the government could contribute anything, it would have been excellent. UNRWA can hardly contribute that much. We met them in Beirut. Then they had held for a whole year just to get permission to add a water line into one of the other camps. Moreover, they lack money. We also met Norwegian National Aid in Lebanon. They drew a picture of people without hope, who live in total exclusion from the rest of society, with fewer rights than Palestinian refugees in other Middle East countries and the West Bank. U.S. University of Beirut has documented that over 60 pst. 5 / 15 “ God’s Kingdom Is a God of Peace, ” 9 / 1 in extreme poverty. Increased access to vocational training and work, food, healthcare and infrastructure needs to be implemented in order to improve the situation. New grid in Shatila and a couple – three Palestinian electrophage letters had at least not been the wrong bet, rather a small contribution in the right direction. UNRWA's representative clearly stated that this is something they do not have in today's situation. We also met representatives of the authorities and Hezbollah. Both used as arguments not to do anything about the Palestinian misery here and now they're going to go back. The Palestinians themselves also hold this tab high, but not as an argument for miserable living conditions here and now. The Council of State is concerned with the same in its answer. Integration into host countries and resettlement in third countries is not relevant as long as negotiations with Israel on the right of return have not been concluded. But I think it's a very bad excuse to let people live in misery for generations after generation. It must be in the interests of the whole world that the Palestinians, when they finally return, are educated, have professional experience, are healthy and healthy, have a life spark and can contribute to stability and democracy in the region through the ability to govern themselves from day one. If not, what could happen? On 10 December 1948, the UN adopted the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Every individual has some basic moral and legal rights that countries cannot violate. In principle, they all apply. The reality is different. It is a great paradox that the life of Palestinians as refugees counts exactly as many years as the Declaration of Human Rights itself – almost like twins, both born in 1948, completely different from appearance, despite the same origin, in this case World War II. Unlike other twins, let's hope for all of us that the first one remains healthy and healthy, while the latter one faces a sudden death. In the meantime, we can see how we can contribute to relieving treatment, as the interpellant calls for.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e313	In 1990, I was born. As probably someone here in the hall remembers, this year the rock group Scorpions released the song «Wind of Change», a song that was a tribute to the political changes that took place in Eastern Europe at that time. And right now it's blowing a wind of change in the Middle East. Old regimes collapse, and people show that they can change their society. The consequences of the conflict between Israel and Palestine are difficult to overcome. What's certain is that circumstances are changing. New, more democratic Arab countries can mean stronger political support for the Palestinians in the region. Even in Palestine, people see that it's useful to organize themselves in protest. Thousands have been in the streets both in the Gaza Strip and in the West Bank to demand that Palestinian leaders step up and unite on a common policy under common direction. The call for democratic reforms in the Middle East is a call we in Norway must listen to. But Norway must not just listen, we must also act. Today, over 4 million stateless Palestinian refugees live in the Middle East after 62 years in exile. They fled from their homes during the war that led to, and followed, the establishment of the State of Israel. Although their right to return has been established by the United Nations, Israel has always denied them this. And in the societies where refugees have lived in the meantime, many of their fundamental rights have been deficient and the humanitarian aid inadequate. Many Palestinian refugees feel neglected in the major political processes. The world community has shown too little willingness to put their right to return to the agenda when they have tried to resolve the conflict over Palestine. Today, the dream of refugees seems distant. There is therefore a need for increased focus on both the rights of Palestinian refugees, their daily challenges and support for their mobilisation for their cause. I am proud to support a government that has an important and clear voice on this issue outside the world. The recognition of Palestine as a state of its own and the recognition of the Palestinian elections show that this government understands that democracy is an important prerequisite for resolving the conflict. I'm not equally proud that we have parties here on the Stortinget that seem to close the eyes of the situation of the Palestinian refugees. The Progress Party has proposed, over several years, in a number of proposals, to cut the aid to the Palestinian self-government authorities. They do not recognise the state of Palestine, and they defend war crimes committed by Israel. The progress party seems to have forgotten that there are 4 million children, adults and the elderly who have suffered for 62 years because of this conflict. The assistance to UNRWA will also be cut if the Advance Party decides, which will be dramatic, as UNRWA is totally dependent on external contributors to run its projects. It may therefore seem that the solution to the conflict by the Progress Party is, therefore, to cut off support for the weakest and worst-placed party in the conflict. There is a poor rhyme with the internal political profile of the Progress Party, where the party gives the impression of being the weakest spokesman in society. In this conflict, they're doing the very opposite. We don't know what the Middle East will look like in one or ten years, but we know that Norway must be one of the leading actors in order for Palestine to experience a wind of change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e335	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for bringing up the situation of the Palestinian refugees in the many refugee camps that are in Lebanon, Gaza, the West Bank, Jordan and Syria. As the representative Haugli has pointed out, there is a very difficult situation in which many of the refugees live in these camps. I agree with the representative that the 4.6 million refugees who have been exiled for six years should soon have a permanent home in a Palestinian state. Their situation and their future depend on, as I see it, the solutions and the results of the negotiations that must come in the future in order for the Palestinian people to be reunited. Recently, we have heard that Fatah and Hamas together have come up with a proposal that can bring together the fractions in Palestine, where they also add to new elections and agreed political processes for the Palestinian people. This is positive, and I think these are good signals that you have to take with you and support under the Norwegian side. The Labour Party stresses the importance of reconciling Palestinian fractions in order to enable the Palestinians to build their own country in the future. Furthermore, reconciliation can help to ensure that the fractions also respect a two-state solution between Israel and Palestine and respect for previously concluded agreements. This, in our view, can also create a common future for the approximately 4.6 million refugees in a Palestinian homeland. I believe Norway should be a driver of such a process and that Norway should continue to show solidarity with the refugees in the various refugee camps. When the representative Haugli has problemated relations with UNRWA and their work in the camps, I share the representative's concern about the development of the camps. Furthermore, I believe that in a situation where the number of refugees is increasing, the need for international solidarity and Norway's responsibility to contribute also increases. UNRWA has a very important mandate from the UN, a mandate to ensure the knowledge and health of a population of the entire population of Norway – a task that we in Norway spend far more billions on than UNRWA has at its disposal. Therefore, the situation described by the Minister for Foreign Affairs is alarming about the economic development of the UN Organisation. The reform of UNRWA and its desire to respond to new efficiency measures show an organisation that wants dynamism and to refer to its own achievements – results that in turn deal with people's living conditions, education and the future, in a very difficult regional situation. That's why I'm glad the government still wants to work with UNRWA. I am pleased that Norway as a nation takes financial responsibility for UNRWA, and that through our commitment to UNRWA we also show solidarity with the Palestinian refugees. Life in the camps cannot stop even though many of the political processes have done so, making a ‘rescheduling’ of Palestinians an impossibility today. However, developments in the camps cannot stop, and the work of UNRWA must therefore be continued. If UNRWA's work is to continue, I believe it depends on the international solidarity we must show with the Palestinian refugees. The decisive thing is the economic follow-up, but also the commitment to a political solution for the region. Norway has played an important role in the past and we have shown solidarity. I am pleased that the Foreign Minister here wants to follow this political line further. I am also pleased that the government in this matter is showing patience to those who have long needed international solidarity and help, while pressing for political solutions, which can finally end the need for UNRWA by the Palestinian refugees and bring the Palestinians together as one people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e367	First, I would like to thank you for a good debate. The Minister of Foreign Affairs used the term ‘livline’ about the role of UNRWA for Palestinian refugees, and that is a precise description. I also think the debate leaves just this impression. UNRWA is important, and the organisation does a job no one else can do. I share the opinion of the representative Eva Kristin Hansen: UNRWA is the main United Nations organisation in the Middle East. The discussion has gone along two tracks. The first is the need for increased resources and the need for efficiency display and rationalisation. The second is the questions of principle relating to resettlement and needs testing. The representative, Höglund, points out that the situation in Jordan is special, where the Palestinians become citizens. He asks whether UNRWA will continue to pay for health and education to Jordanian citizens with Palestinian background. That's a good question, and at the same time it raises a dilemma. Jordan is a poor country, but also the country that has treated the Palestinians with the greatest respect and guaranteed their rights. It's unique. If the UN draws the financial support for Palestinian refugees in Jordan, it will mean that the world community punishes the country for its shyness and propriety. It would be a cross of thought. The representative, Dagfinn, raised something very important: UNRWA's efforts to strengthen human rights. There is no doubt that what UNRWA is doing both in humanitarian work and not least in schools is an important contribution to creating stability and countering extremism in areas of unrest and instability. Fredrik Sletbak drew the parallel between what is now happening in the Middle East and what happened in Eastern Europe after 1989. We are closely following all developments in the Middle East and are enjoying democratic and social reforms. In this picture, it is important that the situation of the Palestinians is not forgotten. Lise Christoffersen made a very good contribution, and she is quite right that it is in everyone's interest that the Palestinians have education, good health, dignity and hope on the day they return to Palestine. She also used the term "liveline" about UNRWA and stated that the lifeline is not strong enough. She's absolutely right -- what do we do about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e382	I want to thank you for many good posts. I think that here we have developed a fundamental agreement that there are two sides to this question. That's what we can do to improve UNRWA as an organisation, how it works, reform efforts, streamline efforts and focus on what can make life easier for those living in the camps. The second is the question of why they are refugees, how long they should be refugees, and then focus on the peace process, which is always at a critical stage, even now. I think it was positive to hear that UNRWA was supported by all the speakers in this room. I must remind you that during the Gaza War, the leader of the Progress Party proposed that UNRWA should be shut down, and she also said that the main problem in the Middle East was this organization. It was opinions that were subsequently moderated by representatives of the Progress Party who have been visiting the region and seen the situation. I think it is important to follow up the line that was expressed here in the debate, that we do not allow the refugees to live in misery until they can move back. But I think we've been illustrated by what complicated interactions there must be between us as donors to this United Nations organization, the host countries that have the camps on their land, those who live in the camps, and the broader political effort to find a solution to the conflict. We headed, from the Norwegian side, the donor group’s meeting just before Easter. The meeting concluded for the first time that the donor country authorities today provide services that are above the level of the standard one can expect from a functioning state. It was considered by Prime Minister Fayyad to be a watershed in the development that the Palestinians have been working for the past few years. This means that at the moment when a state was to materialize through negotiations, the Palestinians have shown that they are able to operate it. A crucial outstanding question is that the Palestinians are divided. Israel has also pointed out for a long time that, as long as the Palestinians are divided, they do not constitute a genuine counter-negotiator. Now new attempts are being made on the Palestinian side. We will follow very carefully from the Norwegian side the work, we will consider the possible merger government that could come out of this process and do it as last time: evaluate it on the basis of the programme it comes with and the principles it adheres to. We believe it is important that Palestinian efforts at assembly are met with openness, but that they must also meet the demands of the international community on the activities of governments and the message of governments. This, of course, also relates to the big question, because there must be a whole Palestinian people negotiating a solution to a two-state solution, which can then allow the refugee question to be dealt with in the perspective that has been called for ever since the final status questions were defined.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e393	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e407	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e416	Diversity, quality and freedom of choice in the welfare sector characterise today's modern welfare society in Norway. That is why I am also pleased that the representatives have addressed this in their Document 8 proposal, which puts an important focus on the welfare services that Norway has. Norway has been designated by the UN for several years as the world’s best country to live in — the world’s best country to live in in kindergartens, in schools, in health services, in care services, not only in cities but in all the country’s 430 municipalities. Norway has a well-developed welfare society that will benefit everyone no matter where you live in the country, no matter what social background, no matter what income you have, and not least no matter what health challenges you face. Numerous public services, diversity of community health services, diversity of specialist health services characterise the well-being society built up over several decades. There is also a shortage of voluntary and non-profit organisations — we have a number of organisations that each day make a wonderful effort to provide the people of Norway with a good offer, whether in the area of child protection, in the area of care and in the area of health and care services in many areas. We also have many good private offers that complement this service offer, and a good cooperation between the actors to provide the best possible offer to benefit the patient. The patient in focus – that is what characterises the diversity we have in the welfare services in this country. The Committee would point out that the free choice of hospitals provides patients with formal freedom to choose between public hospitals, district psychiatric centres owned by a regional health institution and private hospitals that have agreed with regional health establishments. Everyone plays an important role in the development of our joint welfare services in Norway, and a diversity of service providers is important precisely because the Norwegian population represents different groups with different needs. Like the Council of State, the Committee is concerned about how to ensure that everyone has good access to high-quality specialist health services. That is why this government has presented the Interaction Reform, which is about giving people the right treatment in the right place at the right time. We are now presenting a new national health and care plan to be adopted before the Stortinget breaks into the summer – a new law on municipal health and care services, a new public health law. I was at 1:00. 9 today outside the house here in connection with Cyckle to the job-action that goes on how to get people to take care of their own health in an even better way. The Councils of State show, inter alia: in its letter setting up a national quality indicator system. It is health: building services where people live — access to good services, specialised services, and not least prevention services. It's in the municipalities people live, it's in the municipalities people live. That is why it is important that we also get a decentralised, good offer to do this. The majority of the Committee is pleased that the Council of State has so clearly signalled to the RHFs, including in the area of municipal health, that there is a high focus on quality in the years to come, that it is about quality in terms of centralised and specialised services, but also quality in terms of the decentralised and local services we build up. If you are healthy, you have many wishes. If you're sick, you only have one wish, and that's getting better. That's why it's important that we have good welfare that helps people get healthy and stay in good shape. It is important that public and private have good procurement and procurement policies that create predictability and long-term viability. But of course, tenders lead to some winnings and some losings, that's what the whole tendering principle is all about. Therefore, it is important that we have a good long-term and predictability, not least in relation to the volunteers, which enable us to make good investments. The majority of the Committee is pleased that the Council of State has taken initiatives towards the regional health enterprises related to these challenges, particularly those of non-profit actors, in this area. I would therefore like to raise the majority's proposal that the document be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e437	The representative Jorodd Asphjell has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e440	Unfortunately, this is not the first time since the red-greens got the government power we are dealing with a matter with this focus. The opposition has made proposals on various occasions and has put on the agenda issues to ensure diversity, quality and freedom of choice in the welfare sector. What surprises me is that the position escapes so easily with its eternal double communication. We also see it in the setting today. It is a unanimous committee that says that it is committed to diversity, quality and freedom of choice in the welfare sector, and that this is particularly important in a country such as Norway. A unanimous committee emphasises ‘that voluntary non-profit and private institutions, in addition to the public at present, play an important role both in health care and in other welfare sectors’. And listen: all parties say that they "all of them do a very good job and have a high quality of service production". When you hear what's being communicated to the population, as we saw on the slogans of May 1st and heard from the speeches of representatives of the government parties, there's a bit of a contrast to what you're left with. I think it was the Foreign Minister who, according to a larger tabloid, said that it was about owning the reality. And here I think we're at the core of it all. For the government parties in cooperation with LO, it is important to create an enemy image. The words «private», «capital» and «profit» are spewed out in shell and linked to the right-hand parties, or the blue-blue parties, which it appears to also be called. Not in a word, it is said that most of them do a very good job, and have a high quality of service production. Norway needs ideal and commercial providers of welfare services, as we agree. They are now a marginal but important part of service production. Are they then a thorn in the eye of the red-green? One might wonder, because the opposition is alone in expressing the importance of a variety of service providers precisely because the Norwegian population represents different groups and different needs. Have the parties drawn the similarity so far that they believe Norway is a homogeneous population where all needs are to be treated equally? The opposition says that political efforts must be directed towards ensuring the quality of the population. So these are not the government parties. Do they mean, then, that the quality of Norwegian welfare services is good enough? We also stand alone to believe that freedom of choice is one of the fundamental freedoms, and for a moment I feel committed to the Soviet Union, where they had free elections – and one party to vote for. Because we received signals that non-profit service providers could disappear in five to ten years, in 2010, the Progress Party promoted a proposal aimed at bringing down a wide-ranging selection of representatives of public, private, and private commercial actors in order to clarify what is hampering, and what promotes sensible cooperation, while not leading to distortions of competition and conflict with laws and agreements. This did not support the government parties. The government parties have since, possibly in order to free the Christian People's Party, tried to name non-profit organisations as positive contributors. But the ideal sector is not a homogenous mass. Some are largely based on the efforts of members and volunteers, others can build their operations on a value-based basis and carry out their work to a large extent by means of permanent staff, perhaps with a small element of volunteering, and others may again appear as strong spokespersons and opinion-makers for patient groups while offering help to these groups. Within the concept of the ‘ideal sector’ one finds, among other things: movements, foundations, religious communities and associations. Similarly, there is also a diversity of commercial actors in these areas, and it is not always as easy to distinguish who operates on such an ideal basis from who operates on a commercial basis. Therefore, the Progress Party has been concerned that the most important thing must be to ensure the diversity of providers and focus on the quality of services provided, rather than on organisational forms. I wish that the needs of patients, users, students and other recipients were governing the development of Norwegian welfare services. But I find that the red-greens are busy with the system, occupied with positions and power structures. The needs of the recipients appear to be secondary. They say they want diversity, quality and freedom of choice. They actually have a majority to do it, and they can get broad support from the opposition. But they clearly say as Peer Gynt: "Yes, think it; wish it; would it with,-- But do it! No, I don't appreciate it." The proposals in this case will be addressed by the representative Bent Höie.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e479	In order not to forget that, I take up the suggestions on which the Right is or is left alone. This proposal is about extending patients’ rights in Norway. The right has always been at the forefront of the fight for stronger patient rights. The right was at the forefront when it came to the fight to introduce free hospital choice between the public hospitals in Norway. When that proposal was taken up, the arguments were, on the contrary, exactly the same arguments used against free treatment choices today: it would destroy the system, it would destroy governance, it would be a threat to a decentralised offer. In today’s setting, all batches embrace free hospital choice as a response to the challenges addressed by the proposal. It was also the Right that stood at the forefront when it came to the fight to introduce a treatment guarantee, and it was the Right that stood at the forefront when it came to the fight for the introduction of individual medical deadlines in the specialist healthcare service. The time has now come to extend the patient’s rights, because the patient’s ability to choose treatment and treatment sites is currently limited by the boundaries and agreements of regional health companies and by the tendering system. It is about whether this should be the healthcare system of patients or the healthcare system patients. Let me take a story that illustrates this, and which in many ways is a strong inspiration for the proposal to be promoted: A mother contacted me and described a situation in which her daughter, who has eating disorders, wanted treatment at the Capio Anorexia Centers in Fredrikstad. It was a treatment offer that she herself believed in. It was a treatment offer that the parents believed in, and it was a treatment offer that the treating woman also believed in – unlike the treatment offer she had received at Stavanger University Hospital, which none of them believed in, and which time had not helped either. When the girl asked to travel to Fredrikstad, the hospital said no because they did not have an agreement with Capio Anorexia Centers in Fredrikstad. Had this family lived right above the county border, in West Agder, the girl could have chosen this. It shows how today's system prevents people from getting the treatment that helps. The case rapporteur said that when you're healthy, you have a lot of desires, but when you're sick, you have just one wish, and it's getting better. It also had this girl. Today she receives treatment in Sweden, and the parents pay. It shows the other side of this system, that it is a system that builds up a classed healthcare system in Norway, where those who have money and knowledge, including within today's system, have both the opportunity and the power to choose quite freely, while those who have neither knowledge nor money are left to accept the offer given by the system. There is therefore a need for us as patients in Norway today to be able to choose freely between the officially approved treatment services in the country, regardless of whether they have an agreement with our local regional health company or have won a tender. That doesn't mean, as the Council argues in its letter, that we should go away from both tenders and contracts. On the contrary, it should be at the bottom; the majority of patients in Norway will receive treatment. This is about creating a safety valve for those who fall outside. And it's essentially going to be about the very weakest patients in the country. It will be about drug users, who have a clear view of which drug institutions they believe help them, and who have the ideology they believe in. It's about this young girl with eating disorders. And these are chroniclers who need specialized training and rehabilitation. This case is about those who defend the system, and is afraid that the individual's choices will destroy the system, and about us who believe that today's system can actually destroy the individual human being.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e498	The representative Bent Höie has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e501	The centre party, like the proposers, is committed to diversity, quality and freedom of choice in the welfare sector. This shall apply to all, irrespective of their place of residence, income or social and health conditions. The Centre agrees with the proposers that voluntary non-profit and private institutions play an important role in health and care services today. In Soria Moria it has been established that the government parties will further develop the interaction between the public sector and voluntary actors and non-profit institutions serving households, and that these are ensured predictable contractual conditions and working conditions, while making clear demands on quality, costs and working conditions. The centre party wants the quality of treatment in Norwegian hospitals to be measured and the results of the measurements to be public to all. The Council of State warns that in the forthcoming Quality and Patient Safety Scoreboard, the establishment of quality indicators for healthcare as a whole will be a key issue. Governments also refer to the decision establishing a national health portal. The first version shall be established in June 2011. The national health portal shall be a comprehensive gateway to all online healthcare and shall provide the citizens with relevant, safe and quality information. In Norway, we have a right for patients to choose for themselves which hospital they will be treated for. The right to free hospital choice applies to all public hospitals and all private hospitals with an agreement with the public. Both inauguration and outpatient studies are covered by the scheme. But the scheme is too poorly known, it is being used too little, and the information is difficult to obtain. Therefore, criticism of the scheme has been raised. Among other things, the Technology Council has stated that the scheme is actually a bluff. Tore Tennøe, Director of the Technology Council, says to the evening post on 5 April 2011 that it is okay to have knowledge of waiting lists, but the point must be that as patients we know who is good at our diagnosis. Quality information is required to enable one to make real choices. I believe that the criticism of the Council of Technology is timely. We need to obtain and publish a completely different type of information than the number of patients, waiting lists and such sizes. The decision-makers also have a great responsibility to inform better about the right to free hospital choice. The most important thing about the transparency of hospital quality figures is not primarily free hospital choice, but that it could be an important contribution to improving the quality of all hospitals. It is also important to stress that it is not the responsibility of the individual patient to ensure that the hospital in which they are treated is of acceptable quality. Ensuring good and safe hospitals that deliver quality is an overall political responsibility. We have to be aware that free hospital choice will in any case be a system that can favor the resource-powerful. The sickest old drug user, the seriously ill psychiatric patients and the weakened chronicler may not have the power to act as a customer in a market-oriented healthcare system. They may have one wish. It's being treated almost where they live; the nearest offer. Flying to another part of the country, another country, or possibly a less long journey to the neighbouring state or city, is actually out of date for a non-negligible group of patients. These must be ensured in good quality hospital services, even if this is the closest offer. But the right to choose is a value that patients are increasingly going to, and should, be able to benefit from, and we need to facilitate this through better information and quality measurements. Health enterprises’ tendering procedures in the last year have led to debate. Therefore, in the business meetings this year, the government has called for external evaluations of the provision of health services to be carried out. The evaluation shall include, inter alia: include consequences for patient provision in terms of continuity, geographical availability, breadth and diversity, and ability to renew and develop. In addition, one of the evaluations shall look at the acquisitions from a supplier’s perspective in terms of predictability, cleanness and professionalism and that the effects of acquisitions on the future competitive situation shall be elucidated. Governments also announced the setting-up of a working group to assess the specific conditions of non-profit and non-profit institutions with a view to the acute problems experienced by institutions during the treatment of Document 8:68 S for 2009-2010. Government parties have also been aware of the challenges posed by health tenders during the budgetary procedure last year. The majority have pointed out that instruments other than open procedures should be used, for example: purchases may be such an alternative during negotiations. I notice that this comment was not supported by the parties Progress Party and Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e522	In this proposal for a representative, the right-hand side proposes an ‘alience of well-being’. A year ago, the Health and Welfare Committee said together that we want a social contract between the public and non-profit sector. The Committee asked the government to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner. Until now, it has not happened. Freedom Norway and KS have developed an agreement, a cooperation platform at local level, which I would recommend to the Council of State to look at and take advantage of in their work. A representative proposal from the Christian People's Party proposing measures for better framework conditions for non-profit enterprises was discussed in the Stortinget on 13 December last year. A Joint Nutrition Committee welcomed our proposal and assumed that the government will continue its efforts to facilitate interaction between the public and the ideals. The government parties and the Christian People's Party agreed that the non-profit sector has an independent self-esteem, that it is a political task to ensure that the sector is maintained, and that there is an urgent need to establish more long-term and predictable framework conditions. Despite this consensus last autumn, the government’s – I would call it – rage of the non-profit sector has continued. Let me mention it in many ways the most serious example right now: after Ashøy Blue Cross Clinic first lost a bidding round last autumn and remained without operational funds from the turn of the year, Health Bergen, at Haukeland University Hospital, went in and took over the operation of the treatment clinic. For both patients and employees at Askøy Blue Cross, the news came that Health Bergen is entering and taking over the operation as a great relief. But it is no longer an ideally run institution; the public has now taken over. So this is how you can build up the non-profit sector through a bidding round. State Secretary Robin Martin Kåss in the Ministry of Health and Welfare has told Rus & Somfunn that the government is primarily concerned that patients receive the best possible offer. Then he doubtless also believes that the public can offer a better offer in Ashkoy than the highly recognized Blue Cross clinic that has been operating there for many decades? There is little doubt that today's tendering system is functioning very poorly. We are in the process of getting a health and care sector where the ideals are squandered, the small actors lose for the big ones, and the patient's freedom of choice disappears. I have asked the Minister of Health before, and I ask again: is this really what she and the government parties want? If it isn't, why don't the government do more with it than they actually do, and have made up now? They have the majority power, and they can decide what they want these sectors to look like. The Christian People's Party proposes that the proposal by the Right should be annexed to the Minutes. Proposals promoted here have already been promoted – I am thinking of the proposal for a social contract. Furthermore, in our opinion, the proposals of the Right and the Advance Party are too under-protective of non-profit actors against commercial operators. We believe that our solutions for the ideals are better than Right. Our solutions have been expressed in various proposals that we have promoted for Stortinget in this room in the last few months. It is free competition, the requirements for tenders and, in particular, the tendering practice that is the main problem for the ideals. Therefore, the question in the future should be: how can we ensure that the ideal actors survive and can continue to contribute their services in our welfare society? The Christian People's Party is waiting impatiently for the government's words about this political goal to appear soon in action and actual politics, and hopes that we do not see any more examples, such as on the Ashkøy Blue Cross, where the public takes over the operation because you probably don't want to have so many ideal institutions in the drug sector. I deeply disagree with the way the government does this, and I hope that the Council of State will be able to comment on the practice that has recently taken place here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e541	And that gives the Council of State immediate opportunity, because the Council of State Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen is the next speaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e544	When I listen to this debate, it may seem that some parties reserve the right to put the patient in the centre, and stamp others as if you don't. I have to say that I'm taking my distance from, because even though I disagree with the proposal put forward here by the opposition, I'm not going to say that they're not concerned with the patients. But that there's disagreement here, that's what it's really about. So there are many things, including what was raised by Laila Davøy, that the government is busy and working with to create better and more predictable relationships in collaboration with the non-profit sector. The proposal being promoted here aims to create greater diversity, quality and freedom of choice in the welfare sector. In fact, no one disagrees. Ideal and other private institutions play an important role both in health and care services and in other welfare sectors. I'd like to repeat that sentence, because it's not the first time we've debated this, but it's actually quite important: both private and non-profit play a role, because we depend on both sides. But I believe that the proposals that are being promoted here do not help to strengthen the service provision of the population or to take care of the overall interests of the ideals and other private institutions. Such a proposal also presupposes that there is a diversity of institutions to shop between. We have a scattered settlement here in the country, and it won't be possible to have this freedom anywhere. I am concerned that we should ensure an equivalent health service across the country. The starting point for the services we buy from private and non-profit institutions is and will be the needs of patients. Therefore, we first focus on quality and availability when concluding agreements. Over the last few years, healthcare has been through an important development; we offer higher quality services with better patient treatment as a goal. Several services are provided as day care and via outpatient clinics. In the case of private training and rehabilitation institutions, they provide services in different disciplines, which means greater diversity compared to the past. The conclusion of agreements with regional health establishments places the offer in a holistic context. Overall, the agreements of regional health enterprises with the private institutions provide patients with a strengthened range of services. In the case of voluntary and non-profit organisations, better framework conditions, increased appropriations and greater recognition of volunteering are key elements of government policy. There are different models for developing cooperation between the public and non-profit sector. I am concerned that public authorities, in cooperation with stakeholders concerned, need to find good solutions that ensure predictability and long-term cooperation between the public and the non-profit sector. And here, too, I actually feel that there are several people who agree on it. Every year, services from private individuals in Norway are purchased significantly. These services are largely integrated into a comprehensive welfare service. In the case of the purchase of services from private individuals, the public acquisition code shall be followed. Proposalers address a topic that has been debated in Stortinget earlier this year. It concerns the prior authorisation of institutions and the free choice of user services of public institutions and relevant private institutions. I believe that such a model will lead to unforeseeability for all the institutions concerned. Institutions will have to deal with an uncertain demand situation and neither private nor public institutions will have the necessary predictability. At the time of conclusion of the agreement, there is a far greater opportunity to manage the offer, both in terms of quality, accessibility and adaptation to other regional offers. Then we can have a discussion about which agreements are to be concluded, but that's what has been governing. The quality of hospital treatment shall be measured and the results of the measurements shall be public. We're working on this. The Health Directorate has been commissioned to set up a national health portal. It is natural that such information is made available to the population through this health portal. In business meetings with regional health enterprises, we have called for them to carry out external evaluations of their acquisition of health services. Through the work that is being done now, we are facilitating a strengthened service offer, where ideal and private actors provide good services to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e566	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e569	The Council of State has rejected any proposal that has come from both the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Right in this context. Nevertheless, it shows that you want diversity, you want freedom of choice, and you want quality. Then my question is: when the Progress Party promoted its proposal for a social contract, the Council of State would look into it, but nothing seems to have happened. What measures has the government taken to ensure diversity, quality and freedom of choice? And what concrete results can it point to that has actually given increased diversity, improved quality and increased freedom of choice for users?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e576	What has been an important part of government’s policy on the procurement of services has been, in particular, to facilitate good conditions and conditions for non-profit actors. That's why we have, among other things, See that some health businesses have gone against only non-profit actors when it comes to procurement, e.g. in drug treatment or mental health. There have been important measures. We want to develop that further, and create good predictability for the ideal actors. As far as diversity and quality are concerned, the quality and availability of each tender procedure is the most important one. These are important criteria, and we're working on this all the time. It is also the case that something is governing procurement and tendering processes. It is that we must comply with the legislation on tendering procedures. We are concerned about that, even though we want to create good conditions for the ideals, among other things. by virtue of certain elements of the procurement rules which may be waived.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e583	The Health Minister disagrees with the fact that the red-green policy does not put the patient in the centre. But then I have to remind you that it's important for us politicians to relate to the reality out there, how people experience reality. And people out there experience that under the red-green government, the red-greens in health and care policies have systematically reduced freedom of choice and diversity and systematically made it harder for people to choose treatment services in the welfare sector. That's why it gets very special to sit and listen to red-green politicians here in the hall talking about the importance of freedom of choice and diversity, when it's the opposite that happens around the country. So let me ask the Minister for Health: why is it important to refuse people to choose treatment and treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e590	I have to say that I take a strong distance from the fact that freedom of choice is reduced. It's not. Having free hospital choice has been our concern, and if one of the regional health companies has an agreement with a private operator, the others can choose it within the number of treatments purchased. We want diversity and freedom of choice, but it has to be so that it is predictable for the actors who are going to participate in this. That will not be the case with the draft representative here. It's an honest thing to disagree politically, but that's what this is about. It's not that we want to build down. On the contrary, I would like to stress that the budgets of health businesses have increased radically during the period we have been in government, precisely in order to provide patients with a better offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e597	The Council of State says that freedom of choice is not reduced. Well, it's reduced. The freedom of choice has been greatly reduced in the non-profit sector, and several dozen institutions – which I could have listed if I had had more minutes – have actually been closed. It's not because of quality. There may be some, but for most people it has been the tendering regime, that other solutions have been chosen, which have made the ideal institutions go down. I have to ask the Council of State: the way in which it was done in connection with Ashkoy, which is my municipality of residence, saying no in the tendering process, that there are redundancies sent to employees, that from the public at the next round you choose to move on, take over the staff and take over the operation, but it is no longer a Blue Cross institution, I do not understand. Is there such a way that the Council of State believes that health businesses should work against the ideals?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e604	In the case of Askøy Blue Cross, we have discussed this matter earlier. We have also said, as the representative said in his statement, that we are carrying out an evaluation of the procurement processes that have been. In the case of the Health West, they have had too bad a deal for addicts. They have also had too bad a offer under their own public authority. Part of that base must be in its own right in order to make good purchases from ideals. I don't know the details of the process that has been, but I'm going to assume that it has been a help for the employees, for those who work there, that the Health West has come in and taken over. So it's not like health companies are going to go in and take over any institution that loses a tender. That's exactly what's hard about us actually being dependent on some kind of tender situation, that someone doesn't win these tenders. I just have to say that quality is the first criterion and is also a reason for... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e613	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e616	Part of what has been mentioned in the proposal we are dealing with, that of cooperation between the voluntary sector, non-governmental organisations in relation to health, we agree is an important factor. In many areas, these private non-profit organisations have represented an important health service. In many areas, they have over time also represented the only offer we have had in parts of the country, especially in the areas of rehabilitation and drug addiction. Therefore, it is important to have a national cooperation agreement with the voluntary sector. I hope and assume that it is a priority area in several departments, because it has been on the agenda in the past. We have been inspired by the cooperation agreement you have in Sweden. In this context, it is important to clarify the role of public health and the role of the voluntary/ideal sector in the health sector, namely that these represent a complement to public health. The Swedish cooperation agreement it has been shown to clarify precisely this. The proposalers use the rhetoric of diversity and quality and link it to increased privatisation and increased liberalisation of the Norwegian health system. That is what is contained in the proposal, which is below when one argues here. It's a health care system that we in SV take a great distance from. We believe that the health service that is being argued for here is in stark contrast to the health service that we have built up in this country over time, and where priority has been given to where health funds should go. Priority has been given to managing resources throughout the country, and priority has been given to building a good-quality healthcare system in every municipality. It's a way of governing that has ensured quality throughout the country, and that has made the Norwegian health system one of the best. If this is to be lifted and increased liberalisation and shopping is to be introduced in a health market, which has been argued for here, it will benefit the central ones, because it is only where there is a market. The major centres may get more diversity, but the districts and the rest of the country will lose out on it. That is why we are strongly opposed to what is being built up here in this argument about the private sector and having a different cooperation agreement. We're to have parts of this as a supplement. We use approx. 2 billion. kr per year on contracts with the private sector. We would like to emphasise from the SV that it is important to ensure cooperation agreements with the non-profit sector – those with a long tradition, and where we know that the money goes to health, and not to benefits to international groups. Not least, they will be important when we put in place the Public Health Act and public health initiatives in the future. That sector will then play a particularly important role.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e625	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e628	I must say I appreciated the post for the last speech. The representative Geir-Ketil Hansen from SV is honest. He stands on this pulpit and says he is strongly opposed to the Right's suggestion. He strongly opposes privatisation. He is strongly opposed to the "shy" market forces. But the rapporteur from the Labour Party, the representative of Asphjell, tells from the pulpit that the red-greens think it is positive with diversity and freedom of choice, and appreciates the proposal from the Right. I think the representative Hansen looked quite straight at what the red-green policy in the health, care and welfare sector is like. The Labour Party and the Minister of Health of the United Kingdom say that freedom of choice and diversity are important, that it is important for the user to be allowed to choose for himself, but we see that something quite different is happening in Health Norway and in the welfare sector, for example. in the protection of children. There is a systematic reduction of diversity and freedom of choice. Good, solid and traditional child protection institutions are being laid down. They are bought up or downgraded. It's happening all over the country, precisely because of the government's unilateral, state-owned institutional effort and the degradation of diversity. You take away the ability to choose for yourself. In March this year we could look at the NRK what the consequence of the policy of the red-green ones is. The small, adapted child-restraint institutions are being laid down so that children with different needs and challenges need to be placed in large institutions. We know that this can be harmful for the individual. Eighteen-year-old Emil tells the NRK what it was like in such a large institution, where, when he was 13, he got in touch with drugs, because the others at the institution used it. Is there such a child protection we want? The lack – the small, unique actors, who are able to offer adapted offers to the children, so that they get the help they need when they need it – is systematically reduced by Velferds-Norway with the red-green policies. If the government had done more to ensure a variety of health and care services, we could give people a real freedom of choice, a real right to exchange, rather than a right to complain. When you have to complain, it is already too late. It's human life it's about. It's a little credible when the Workers' Party talks about diversity and freedom of choice being important in Velferds-Norway, when we see that it's the opposite that happens in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e640	I just want to correct the representative of Helleland. I do not think the representative heard very well after during my post. I didn't say we were against the private solutions – they represent an important supplement. In some areas of rehabilitation and intoxication, the ideal organisations have been represented over time; they have been the only offer we have had in this area. So we have no plans to liquidate it, or conduct a policy that will be a threat to these. On the contrary, I have said that we are concerned about the last round of tenders, where it looked as if these were being squandered for the benefit of the commercial operators. I have found that, for example, The Progress Party has not been concerned with that issue. So my main criticism of the right-hand side proposal is that arguments are being argued for increased privatisation – increasing privatisation at the expense of the public. That is the reality. There are many ways out of the reality of the treatment of health budgets and policies here in the Chamber, because the most important thing here is the word ‘priority’: we need to give priority to the allocation of health resources across the country; we need to give priority to the distribution of psychiatry, drugs, somatics. Prioritisation is the key word, and later it is as if you have disconnected yourself when you talk about creating more offers, we need more diversity, we need more health shopping and more market. This is a policy that is on a collision course with Norwegian health policy over time, and will pose a threat to high quality health services across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e647	I need to respond a little to what the Council of State said in its statement, namely that the situation in the Health West has been such that the public has little to do with intoxication, perhaps as much as 80-90 pst. has been driven by ideals and private. That is quite correct, but at the same time, that part of the country has had some of the worst offers to addicts. It has improved in recent years, it has, but that does not mean that you need to go in and take over the operation, or take over and reduce tasks in the non-profit institutions, when the need is so much greater for new measures and for the public to build up. Especially perhaps in the context of the double diagnosis problem of drugs and psychiatry, I think it is right that the public builds up more than they have now. I think it is quite remarkable that you now – I think the Council of State is doing it too – suggest that it might have had to do with quality. There is completely different information I have about that acquisition. Then I would like to say that I am pleased that the Council of State is going through the tendering system and that the regional health companies have been given this task. In this region, all LAR treatment has been taken from the Blue Cross clinic in Bergen, and so now they have taken over the operation of a traditional, good institution, for which the Blue Cross still owns the property, but they don't have the operation. If it turns out that this has been made wrong in the bidding round, that this should not have happened, that they should actually be allowed to continue – or for the part that there is a need for them to continue, and that must be because the public has now taken over the operation – then I hope that the Council of State will be able to dare to tell the regional health company that this institution will still be allowed to operate as a Blue Cross institution. I do not feel that the doors are closed in relation to this. I'm not asking the council here and now to answer that she's going to do it, I understand she's not. However, I hope that the current round of regional health companies looking at tendering practices will be thorough and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e658	The bidding round that has been, we have debated many times, and we have a process on it. But I felt the need to clarify one thing: it wasn't the special institution I meant when I said it was about not necessarily having the right quality, but that it has been a situation for some of the institutions that have been removed. So it's also so that it's been an overcapacity. In the case of Health West, it has been particularly important to build up some of the public offer. For one thing, you have good deals with others, and especially with ideals, it's important enough, but it's been important that you have built up the offer. It has been absolutely necessary, because this is a patient group that has been neglected. It acknowledges the management of the Health West, also especially in Health Bergen. That is why I am pleased that they are building up the offer for this group, which we have a goal of providing better treatment and shorter waiting time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e665	Proximity provides a lot of security, but proximity itself does not provide security. It's about the quality of the services we're going to produce, and we're going to give our people. It is about the quality of the contents of kindergarten, about the quality of the contents of school, about the quality of care for the elderly, and about the quality of the specialist health service. Over these six years, we've built up full babysitting. It gives freedom of choice. It doesn't give freedom, because it gives people room, a nursery, where they live and where they live. As far as schools are concerned, it is important that we have a common school in all municipalities, which are accessible and of good quality, and which also allows people to go to school in their community and not travel long distances. It's also about availability and opportunities to have good deals. In the field of care for the elderly, we have seen that diversity is important, but is it right that the operation of care for the elderly, the operation of nursing homes, should be put on the market? Do these bidding people who work 20 hours a day, who live in cellars, give freedom of choice? Is that good quality for those who live in nursing homes? It is about having good public welfare services that provide security for employees, security for the population, and not least for those who need care and care. That's what freedom of choice is all about, having good deals. This also applies in psychiatry, which also applies in the care of drug users. It's not about putting everything out for tender, it's about expanding offers that have good quality across the country. Everyone does not live here in Oslo and can choose different offers. Most municipalities in Norway are municipalities with less than 2000 inhabitants. They do not have the option to choose between different schools, different hospitals, different kindergartens, etc. Therefore, it is important that we build good welfare services that are available in public in cooperation with the municipalities. It also applies in the area of rehabilitation. That is why the Council of State has now presented a new national health and care plan to provide good specialist health services not only for those living in cities but specialist health services in the area of drugs, psychiatry, etc. in local medical centres where people live. It is about having access to good health services in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e683	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3855]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e699	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to a member of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e708	The Stortinget will therefore be considering a proposal from the representatives of the Progress Party, Gåsvatn, Kjos and Olsen on Public Private Cooperation in the financing of hospital buildings. In the proposal, the government is asked to facilitate the establishment of OPS projects in the context of hospitalisation. Within the Committee, the Right has given its assent to the proposal, while the majority of the Committee proposes that it be rejected. I'm going to give a more detailed justification for that, and I assume that the minority will explain the proposal in more detail. The main reason why the majority of the Committee opposes this proposal is that it is well documented that such solutions will be more expensive. Today, health enterprises can borrow money directly from the State, which is documented to be the most reasonable solution, and there is no shortage of capital to finance hospital buildings that is the problem. Furthermore, the attitude to experience from other countries, the United Kingdom, where more than 100 hospital buildings are funded by Public Private Cooperation. The extra costs there have become more than 12 pst., and there are significant funds. It is therefore very easy to conclude that this is a bad proposal. Health enterprises have significantly increased their investment frameworks in recent years. It is invested for approx. 7.8 B.C.E. kr per year. The value of the building stock has increased from 66 billion. SEK in 2002 to close to 80 billion. kr in 2009. Thus, access to capital is not limited, but it is the financial capacity of health enterprises to invest and to raise loans that is crucial. In recent years, health enterprises have gained significantly better control of the economy and several enterprises – if not all – have been able to allocate significant funds to investment. It has contributed to an increase in the level of investment. An opening for private investment, ownership and operation will not change on that assumption. The only difference will be that this will be more expensive and that the money that could have gone to investments or operations in health businesses will instead go to returns for private investors. The Health Committee therefore proposes that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e725	The need for so-called OPS solutions is in many ways created by the policies pursued in the country. For a country with the financial muscles that Norway has, it is only when government and the majority of the population choose not to invest in new hospitals and thereby get a more effective health care system that the need for other financial solutions is made apparent. The framework of health enterprises is essential for financing both new buildings and hospital maintenance, and it has recently emerged through, inter alia, the Council of State. have said no to the planned construction of new Molde hospitals. The rapporteur was just inside and informed that it was the framework that was crucial. The frameworks are determined by this room, and the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen can contribute to the continuation of the frameworks if he wants to, and thus not use it as an argument to say that one cannot invest. Back to the new Molde Hospital: It was probably a postponement where the argument was that it was the health company's overall financial situation that makes it impossible to expand the hospital as planned. This is a little precise, all the time Health Mid-Norway actually went with profit in 2010. At the same time as the Council of State says no to this expansion in Molde, the development of new hospitals in Health South-East, which is a deficit-stricken enterprise, starts at an affordable price. As far as I can understand, the decision on Molde is also contrary to previous promises from, among other things, State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen in his time. This shows that the argument for financing the further expansion of the hospital sector is changing and, in other words, demanding both for health businesses, the local population and the Stortingen to deal with. I will be allowed to underline the high investment needs of hospitals, and that it updates the need to facilitate different investment models and thus improve the availability of capital. It again, and not least the state's lack of willingness to finance hospital expansion, makes this modernisation both possible and desirable in our opinion. Furthermore, it is clear that existing financing opportunities do not provide the necessary investment rate. As a result, it is therefore important to open up models that allow for faster deployment. This does not apply only to hospitalisation. OPS is an option for which it is important to facilitate in several social sectors. In contrast to the rapporteur's impression, there are many good examples that such cooperation is practical and works well in both the state and municipal sectors. An opening to OPS will ensure that the necessary projects can be implemented quickly and with the necessary predictability both in terms of implementation and funding. It is not only the Molde issue that is at stake, it is also the case that the large backlog in the health sector makes it necessary to open up practical funding opportunities, which in turn allow the public and private sectors, in cooperation, to solve the significant investment challenges that we have. But it's urgent. The signed and advanced batch are of the opinion that OPS projects may be cost-effective. A more rational implementation of the investment project and shorter construction time, often the examples of OPS solutions, contribute to this. Experience makes it clear that OPS projects also provide a basis for better maintenance of the building mass used. Over time, it brings great savings, as we see in the aftermath, the last visible on Ullevål. I will once again be allowed to stress that, in my opinion, there is a lack of commitment in the health sector. In particular, it is a political responsibility that this government must take. On this occasion, I would like to remind you of our proposal from this year's budgetary procedure: ‘The Government requests, during the spring 2011 session, to submit a case relating to the financing of the maintenance of medical equipment and building mass in Norwegian hospitals.’ This could solve the matter. It would have been tempting to go further into the background. I'm not going to do that. I now hesitate to promote the proposal that has been referred to in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e749	The representative Per Arne Olsen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e752	In the years to come, there will be many large public building projects to be launched, no matter what kind of government, no matter what kind of municipal plurality it is. It concerns schools, hospitals, roads and railways. We also know that there are large delays on the maintenance side. While there are many tasks, the economy sets clear limits on how much public expenditure can increase. I think most people in big business and government agree on that. In a period of uncertain economic prospects for, for example: health enterprises, major challenges and a number of Community tasks to be addressed, it is important to look at how good solutions can be organised through instruments that one would have served, other than traditional ones. If we are to avoid large problems being solved, the money must be used smarter than it has now been done. In Norway, there is relatively limited experience in Public Private Cooperation. You have it on some road sections, you have it at a patient's hotel, and you've had it at a car park, but there is no public strategy for how to use OPS. The current government has worked towards OPS projects. In practice, they have stopped completely from statehood. Norway has become dependent on this work. OPS is a good way to organise and finance large-scale development projects. You get a private company, often established for the project in question, responsible for building, operating, financing and maintaining the project. The public sector appears to be ordering and to determine quality, scope and objectives. An agreed rental is paid from the project in place. This is particularly relevant for hospitals. The case rapporteur, Hansen, said that it is not the investment money it depends on in the case of hospitals. It turns out that Molde is a good example of something that could have been solved in another way. In the Right, we believe that OPS is properly implemented, it may incur lower costs for development, operation and maintenance. Through OPS there will be a constant pressure for efficiency improvement. Experience shows that this is happening. The rapporteur indicates that other countries would like to have had 12 pst. more expensive investments, but then one forgets to see them in relation to operating savings. You also forget the social consequences of actually being able to realize things faster. Then it is wrong to see only the increased investment in the short term, as this actually affects other elements as well. A OPS agreement lasts over long periods of time, 20-30 years. It ensures predictability for recipients of a service. Earlier initiation is relevant for the hospital sector, it is relevant for patients. With the longer-term allocation of costs by OPS, it may be possible to start more projects earlier. Large public investment is not necessary. It's an advantage in some cases in the view of the Right. With the life cycle perspective of OPS, developers are forced to view construction, operation and maintenance as part of the same whole. This means that low-cost components should not be used to reduce investment, as this will increase operating costs as a consequence in other contexts. Contracts for long periods of time avoid building up large maintenance kits that also have a cost, whether in hospitals, schools or roads. Start-up of a project therefore implies an obligation on the part of the State and the private operator to ensure good maintenance. In the view of the Right, OPS also stimulates innovation, focus on costs and quality, strong pressure for efficiency throughout the life cycle and reduced maintenance costs. OPS will not always be appropriate. Nor will it be a hokuspocus solution, but if the key assumptions are met, there is a great potential. Proper use of OPS may result in efficiency improvement, cost savings and quality improvement. In Stavanger we know that Health Stavanger entered into an OPS agreement in connection with the construction of a patient hotel, and has positive experience of this. In Ullensaker we know that a nursing home at Jessheim is built through the same, also with positive experiences. Under today's system, the public is too focused on how to do things, rather than what is actually being delivered. It prevents flexibility. On the right, there is not enough systematic work to assess how the benefits and disadvantages of specific projects can be outweighed by different models, such as: (C) 2005-2008, (C) 2005-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, This is unfortunate for Norway. It prevents Norwegian companies from building up the skills to be acquired for a good market. Had we had more knowledge of OPS, we could have better results, but it requires political action and a strategic approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e775	Storting representatives Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Kari Kjønaas Kjos and Per Arne Olsen have made proposals to ensure opportunities for Public Private Cooperation in the financing of hospital development. They believe this is necessary since Norwegian hospitals are in great need of upgrades and new investments. They refer to several press releases that have updated possibilities for Public Private Cooperation to finance the investment needs of hospitals. I guess it's Molde Hospital that's behind the curtain. The Progress Party believes that privately funded projects in the hospital sector will ensure that processes go much faster than in the case of State budget investments. I notice that there is no reference to this becoming a cheaper way for the state to build hospitals. Experience has shown that, on the contrary, private funding investment in OPS cooperation could lead to more expensive hospitalisations for society. It is because private borrowing for OPS projects will be more expensive than loans public authorities can offer. In the United Kingdom there are 103 hospitals built with OPS. The experience gained from this is that the operating costs of the OPS hospitals are 12 pst. higher than in public hospitals. It is not without reason that the new Conservative-liberal government in the United Kingdom terminated all OPS contracts as it was possible after the 2010 elections. The proposals of the Progress Party are ideologically conditional and are not unexpectedly supported by the Right. In a chronicle in today's business 9th of March, Hallvard Bakke writes that if this blue-blue policy became a reality and was implemented in practice, it would result in the country's taxpayers getting an extra bill of billions of dollars. I think it is a little paradox that the Progress Party is making this proposal. The Progress Party is behind the corporate reform and one of several important objectives of the hospital reform is to facilitate the better protection of the values of invested capital, i.e. construction and equipment. The government commitment was to ensure that the enterprises were responsible for seeing operational and capital resources in a context. Undertakings were to be governed on a commercial basis. One was to leave the system of state extra appropriations for hospitals in the counties, which was the responsibility of the counties. Thus, health companies were fully responsible for investments and operations. So the principle is that they can't raise any larger loans than they have the ability to operate through the economy they have. This principle selects the Progress Party to turn its back on today. State councils report in their letter on the strong growth that has been in investment and construction for hospitals in recent years. The Council of State also points out in the letter to the Committee when it refers to the fact that the development of hospitals does not stop because there is no access to loans. The key to ensuring development is to provide good framework conditions and robust economy, and that enterprises demonstrate sound, responsible management of funds, so that future interest rates and instalments and depreciation can be covered within the available framework. The centre party does not support the proposal of the Progress Party and the Right that the government be required to facilitate solutions that are more expensive than ordinary public funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e792	In the last decade, the investment activity in Norwegian hospitals has been more than twice as high as in the 1990s. During this period we have received several modern, upgraded and functional hospitals. Among other things, the two largest domestic projects of Norway's history, St. Olav's hospital and New Aarhus, have been carried out during the period. Everything is financed by public funds. The proposers believe that OPS projects and other private funding could contribute to financing projects in the hospital sector that will allow the process to go much faster than can be expected with today’s investment rate above government budgets. As mentioned above, there is already a high level of investment in today’s hospital investment regime. Much has been accomplished. Currently, a new local hospital is being built in the Vesterålen, a major modernisation is being carried out at the hospital in Bodø, a new hospital in Østfold is to be built, and a new children's and youth clinic is under way at Haukeland University Hospital. Regional health establishments have a high degree of freedom in the case of investments. Means for the purpose are included in the basic allocation. Furthermore, a government loan scheme has been established, whereby health care establishments are granted access to loans at a lower cost than a private developer does. This loan facility is also flexible. Large-scale projects may be provided with loan frameworks up to a maximum of 50 pst. of the project costs. It is health enterprises that decide, even if, how quickly investment projects are to be carried out. The State loan is paid in line with the financing needs of health establishments during the development period. This ensures the effective implementation of adopted construction projects. I know that OPS projects have been widely used in the EU. The main reason for this has been to reduce public debt. We do not have the same need in Norway. Furthermore, extensive studies from the United Kingdom, where more than 100 hospitals are built with OPS, show that the operating costs of these hospitals are 12 pst. higher than in public hospitals. The wish of the proposers for OPS solutions and the arguments that emerge seems to be more ideological than professional and practical. When it comes to investing, the level of income and governance of the economy is crucial for what to invest in – and the amount for which to invest is appropriate. Investments financed by external loans and OPS projects are only temporary payments and costs are deferred to subsequent periods. Therefore, access to loans is not essential for the development of healthcare through new hospital buildings. Development is ensured through good framework conditions and robust economy. Health enterprises cannot – in the same way as private households – raise larger loans than they have the financial opportunity to serve. Over-indebtedness means that there will be too little money left for staff, medicine and maintenance. That is why I am focusing on the continued good framework conditions for health businesses and good governance of the use of funds, which ensure the development of specialist health services and more modern and functional hospitals. So I just want to make a comment on Per Arne Olsen, who thought that OPS had given a hospital in Molde faster. He indicated that Health Mid-Norway had a surplus, and that it should therefore go on. But it's not enough to go with profit. In fact, you also have to have a long-term economy in order to pay for the construction. And I'm not the one who says that Health Mid-Norway does not have finances until 2018 for the construction, as it says today – it's actually Health Mid-Norway itself that has assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e811	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e814	It would have been tempting to drill on in this, and if I could get some good answer on how it could be economics in Health South-East, which goes with great deficits, to build more hospitals, when there is obviously not enough economy in Health Mid-Norway, which then goes with profit, if perhaps not enough profit. I'll leave it, because the mantra from the red-green here is that they don't need to borrow, because they can get it from the state. They do forget to mention that the state is not willing to borrow this money, because it is said that the framework is too poor, the framework for health companies is such that they cannot serve this debt. Then the question is whether the Council of State can confirm that increased frameworks would give a higher rate of investment, whether they had borrowed the money privately, in a OPS or by the State. So question 1 is, would enhanced frameworks contribute to faster hospitalization? And question 2: Will the Council of State contribute to a significantly larger framework, so that one can realize the hospital in Molde, for example, and more elsewhere?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e821	Once again, I would like to stress that there has been a double rate of investment in hospitals since 2002, i.e. from the introduction of the health company model. In fact, due to the fact that the money is in the basic allocation, regional health businesses are also required to control the investment rate. In this way, at the same time as the projects are to be approved, we believe that they have better control over investment. So that's the way it was, if it was just putting money into the economy, you could, of course, at least for a certain time, build more, both roads and hospitals and everything that had to be. But it's now that we have a government budget that is adopted in the Storting and that we agree on. Of course, every minister is trying to get the most to his own sector. I am pleased that we have succeeded in getting more money for the health sector, so that we can invest more and get better patient treatment. But that's the way it is: it's the total budget that decides.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e829	It's not like the Council of State gives the impression that you're rushing on to increase the government's framework. Throughout all the years, the right has given more money to the hospital sector in its alternative government budgets than has been done by this government. With regard to the OPS and the debate on the emerging economy, we would like to stress from the Right that it is, of course, worth it for health care companies to have a clean economy, that there is a requirement for equity when making investments. It can be seen that some health companies are running a deficit. You can see that, for example, Health West operates with nearly half a billion dollars in profit, and it provides a good basis for independent investment. My question to the Council of State is that one has seen good examples of both a patient's hotel and a car park in relation to OPS. If, in the case of ordinary hospital-related matters, the Council of State does not wish to OPS, the Council of State will at least open it in connection with, for example: patient hotels, car parks and other items that actually generate revenues and reduce other costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e838	Investments vary considerably in order to build a patient’s hotel and a hospital. When you're going to build a hospital, it's rarely talking about less than a few billion, and it could be about many, many billions. So the two things can't be compared. Then I have to say that I had not expected anything other than that the Right is concerned about having a certain management of the economy. We also saw that when the Right was last in government. A number of investments in state-owned buildings were then held back. There were a number of state buildings, for example. in Bergen, where I was a local politician, who was not started, precisely because it was probably thought that no more money would be spent on the public sector. Our government has done something about that. That is why we also have good investment opportunities in health businesses. But we can't invest more than that's the economy to pay. This applies regardless of whether it is a OPS project or whether it is an investment. So it's like we don't have to use OPS projects for hospitals. From the United Kingdom, it turns out it's 12 pst. more expensive. Then I don't understand why we should do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e845	Thanks to the representative, Davøy, I was given a reply, and then I want to drill on the question that I did not get an answer to when it was hospitalization, and the fact that it is going to be the economy of the healthcare company to make these improvements. Just in the case of the ‘violent’ bet that the red-greens have made on hospital construction, I have to ask the Council of State to look at the last few days’ TV entries from Ullevål Hospital, which show, among other things, that there is a considerable need again. But when the Council of State gives the impression that it is the health company's economy that is crucial, she can explain to me why health south-east, which goes with great deficits, can be allowed to invest in a hospital for another, while Health Mid-Norway, which goes with profits, obviously does not have finances? I'm not going to link this to each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e852	Health South-East is not going with a large deficit, it is not that they have done so. With regard to Oslo University Hospital, over the past few weeks, there has been an increase in consumption in the current year due to the switchover. It's a completely different matter. Health South-East has approx. Three billion. kr of the year to invest in, and do so also, partly in, new buildings, partly in rehabilitation. There are large amounts of money allocated to investments in Oslo University Hospital, but you haven't been able to use them to the full. I fully agree with Per Arne Olsen that there are a number of Norwegian hospital buildings that should have been replaced or rehabilitated. We will do something about that, but it has to be done within a responsible economic framework, with a certain priority and at a certain rate. We need to build more hospitals, I can promise, and we need to rehabilitate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e863	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e866	Public Private Cooperation related to public tasks has been debated for quite a long time. If the Norwegian State had not had capital available, it might have been natural for one to have looked at how to build public welfare services. But Norway is not a poor society. We have more than enough access to capital, to labour and to knowledge related to this. Today, when regional health establishments are to adopt on an independent basis expansions, whether in hospitals, district psychiatric centres, drug treatment centres or rehabilitation sites, it is about expanding these offers from an economy that regional health establishments can maintain in the future. Development cannot take place in such a way as to reduce the content of these buildings because a future institution cannot operate them. During the Bondevik I government and the Bondevik II government, hospitals in Norway had a significant deficit every year. Every year there were major debates on how to deal with this. Under the red-green government and this council of states, there has been a balance in almost all areas – we have had profits that enable health businesses to make investments on an independent basis in large, new hospitals, which we see around the country. Never before has there been more investment in public health than it has in recent years. As the Council of State said, since 2002, there has been an average annual investment of 7 billion. kr. We have invested heavily also in mental health. This government and this majority have met in respect of these investments. We have over-filled the national transport plan. But when roads are built through Public Private Cooperation, with higher interest rates than when municipalities, counties or the state raise their own loans, it is the drivers who have to pay that extra bill. Is it so that if it costs 12 pst. more to expand a hospital, is it the patients the opposition wants to send the bill to? That's why it's important that we keep our own economy in order when we're going to build this. When a municipality builds up kindergartens and nursing homes, or when a county municipality builds up secondary schools, they must, of course, have a capital base themselves and have the ability to operate it — otherwise it will go beyond the content of the offer to those who are to use these services. So it's not like the arguments are based on, that if you do this through OPS, it becomes faster construction etc. It is not public servants who build roads, lay pipes, do electrical work, are building carpenters or whatever it may be. After all, the public is working closely with the private sector in terms of construction and operation in many places. But that is how this is to be organised, which is the important thing. Policy is about prioritisation and about having a financial capacity to bear the investments you have in the future. That's why it's important that it's a good balance. Having private builders to finance this, when we have more than enough capital ourselves, is a costly term. And it's not about giving a better offer. It's about how we organise services and how it's going to happen. It is important then that it is done in a public way and in a good way on the basis of public priorities – whether it is a municipality, a county council, the Stortinget or the health companies that are responsible for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e883	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3856]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e901	There is little research on different types of animal abuse and the extent in Norway, but a research report shows that animal abuse is rarely reported, and that the risk of being punished or deprived of animals is very low. It also concludes that animal abuse is likely to occur much more frequently than the abuse of animal welfare students and police. Repeated cases of severe malpractice that have lasted over time confirm the impression that animal abuse is not detected or detected too late. In Norway, the Animal Welfare Act and its related regulations are designed to ensure that animals do not suffer unnecessarily. It is the Food Authority that administers the Animal Welfare Act, with the help of local laymen's students. The low risk of animal abuse indicates that the handling of food is not satisfactory. A study carried out by the Food Safety Authority itself on the prevention of animal trachea points to the upgrading of the animal welfare area and organisational problems within the supervision as challenges to the prevention of animal trachea. In England and in some countries in the United States, there is a separate animal police force. The English Animal Police is under the private organization Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, RSPCA, and enjoys great respect in the home country. This organisation has been delegated the power to exercise animal supervision and to submit cases to the prosecution authorities. This has led to an increase in private financial contributions, reducing the need for increased public funding. There will also be less public bureaucracy, and control will improve, resulting in less animal abuse. We have an organisation in Norway that is already established, and it's SPCA Norway. RSPCA was established in 1824 in England, and was protected by Queen Victoria. RSPCA is established in more than 123 countries worldwide. The work of SPCA Norway is based on volunteering, as all other voluntary rescue services in Norway. The vision of the organisation is to have a national structure in the field of practical animal rescue and management and through preventive work to disseminate a sense of value and knowledge of animals. The SPCA Norway is an inclusive association that wishes to make use of existing resources in the UK in order to establish a national standard on animal welfare and welfare, however, existing resources shall be subject to the national criteria of the SPCA Norway in order to bring about the emergence of a coherent system. SPCA Norway wishes to establish the National Executive Unit for Acute Animal Assistance. They wish to provide services as emergency reception services for animals, which are required to have disease prevention measures. They wish to provide services such as animal transport to and from animal owners' clinics and to assist animal welfare emergencies. They also want a national disaster response, a national adoption system and services such as education and guidance. SPCA Norway is, as said, an inclusive association that, in the context of animal rescue, wants to mobilise available veterinarians in an overall cooperation nationally, in the event of accidents to be subject to the rescue work of the fire service, as a specialist resource with expertise in animal management – SPCA Norway is currently cooperating with the fire and rescue department in the country – further carrying out specialised missions for facilities in neglected, dangerous and aggressive animals. The work of SPCA Norway should be assessed in the same way as the work done by RSPCA in 123 countries around the world. Available information suggests that food surveillance is not sufficiently able to monitor and monitor animal welfare in the country. There may be grounds for considering another model for the organisation of supervision and the development of rules in the field of animal welfare. An evaluation of the performance of the Food Safety Authority in the field of animal welfare should be carried out since its establishment and until today, inter alia. the extent to which the size target for animal welfare has been achieved, the types of tasks identified as problematic and the reasons for doing so. An investigation should also be carried out into different management models for animal welfare, including: the organisation of animal protection in a separate establishment, corresponding to the animal health supervision of the former State, and the organisation of animal protection as a separate department of the Food Safety Authority, with its own inspectors. At the same time, it is appropriate to consider whether the inspectors controlling animal welfare should be assigned a limited police authority equivalent to the State's nature oversight. The annual report of the Food Safety Authority for 2010 shows that animal welfare problems are neglected, so this has been allowed to escalate to a critical level. Examples of the annual report of the Danish Food Authority are fish farming salmon and plentiful reindeer at Finnmarksvidda. This shows that the Food Safety Authority does not work proactively enough, so that animal diseases become a fact before intervention. Of all the resources used by the National Food Safety Authority’s district offices during the period 2006-2009, only about 5 pst went. for the supervision of the protection of animals. In comparison, almost 30 pst went. for meat inspection and 25 pst. for food control purposes. The Food Authority itself writes in its annual report for 2010: «Animal welfare is often difficult and resource-intensive.» This underlines that staff working with animal welfare should be given the opportunity to specialise – in order to be able to work more effectively. The model of food supervision, risk-based supervision, has not worked in the field of animal welfare. It's e.g. continued unidentified objective criteria for risk and animal husbandry. The Food Authority also writes in its annual report for 2010: ‘Regional surveillance project to identify objective sampling criteria for animal husbandry with a high risk of poor animal welfare showed that the criteria tested were of limited value.’ The 2009 Animal Welfare Act provides for the use of more instruments than previous animal protection legislation. It's too early to say what effect this will have. At the same time, there is a general impression that the Food Safety Authority is showing restraint in its use. Active use of the instruments is a prerequisite for law enforcement in accordance with the expectations of the legislator. The public is dissatisfied with the handling of animal welfare by the Food Authority. This is also the unique impression of animal welfare organisations, and is confirmed by the establishment of several animal police groups on Facebook, among others. with signature lists. Altogether, these have over 160,000 friends. The responsibility for animal welfare lies today under the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. The Ministry of Industry is responsible for promoting business interests, which often go despite animal protection. This leads to clear conflicts of interest in the management of animal welfare and needs to be assessed for nutritional reasons. Since 2006, Norwegian farmers in the West have had an offer of mobile animal bacteria. In the past, only mobile slaughterhouses for the slaughter of game and farmed game have been offered. Authorisation was granted for, inter alia: Mobile slaughter AS in 2006 by the Food Safety Authority for the slaughter of domestic animals. Now the Food Authority will stop the activity of Mobilslakt AS due to hygiene conditions. These conditions are mainly related to the requirements for toilet and wardrobe facilities for the staff of the car to be slaughtered. Mobile slaughterhouses do not have such facilities either in or in addition to the slaughterhouse. The possibility for employees to use the permanent toilet and wardrobe facilities on the farms in which they are to carry out the slaughter is not sufficient according to the requirements of the Food Safety Authority. Since 2006, mobile slaughter AS has been exempt from the use of wardrobe facilities in permanent premises. This derogation has now expired, and the Food Authority is not willing to renew it. In connection with St.meld. No 12 for 2002–03 noted the following: «All slaughtering of animals for human consumption shall take place by stunning before bleeding. Reference is made to the following positive aspects of the situation in slaughterhouses: – Norwegian slaughterhouses must be approved prior to their entry into service in the interest of animal welfare. – There is continuous good cooperation between the control authority and the company.’ It was further noted that: ‘There is, however, an increasing interest and concern among consumers about the conditions for the animals at the slaughterhouse and during the slaughter itself. The Ministry of Agriculture will focus on some aspects where improvement is desirable and possible: [[...]] According to today's legislation, mobile slaughterhouses are subject to the same strict requirements as permanent slaughterhouses. The Party of Progress is of the opinion that hygiene requirements for the food sector should be strict due to food safety and quality. This must also apply to the handling of slaughter of both domestic and game animals. However, the Progress Party is of the opinion that it is necessary to relax requirements for the provision of mobile slaughterhouse facilities in respect of toilets and wardrobe facilities in relation to permanent slaughterhouses, as mobile slaughterhouses will have the possibility to use those facilities in the permanent farms where the slaughter is to be carried out. Currently, there is only one approved mobile slaughterhouse that slaughters pure. Norway is unique in the European context. The other European countries focus on animal welfare and have decided to use several mobile slaughterhouses in order not to stress the animals, which also leads to better meat quality. No, it's time to take into account animal welfare and follow the rest of Europe and let the animals be slaughtered as close as possible to the farm.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e993	First of all, I would like to thank the representative, Mr Tåldal, for the interpellation, which deals with a topic that has a great deal of attention in society. In time that has gone since St.meld. No 12 for 2002–03 Animal husbandry and animal welfare have done a great deal to improve animal welfare, and this work continues. From a welfare perspective, Norwegian animal husbandry issues were addressed in detail through the work on the new Animal Welfare Act, which entered into force on 1 January 2010. The investigation – the background to the legal work – started with the work that was done in connection with the Storing Message. The Storing Communication identified a number of areas where further investigations related to different types of animal husbandry were needed, from a welfare perspective. A number of necessary investigations have thus been carried out in the context of the drafting of the new Animal Welfare Act. This included, inter alia: investigations by the Scientific Committee on Food Safety, the Veterinary Mission Centre, SINTEF and the University of Environmental and Life Sciences. The law takes into account new knowledge that comes, and is to transform it into appropriate and good animal husbandry legislation. I have great expectations that the law will be a good tool to promote animal welfare. There is work in progress on updating existing regulations, as well as the design of new regulations to comply with the law. Animal welfare rules shall be based on new knowledge of animal needs and factors relevant to their welfare. I want to show that new regulations have just been adopted for the keeping of fur animals. It applies from 1 May 2011 and imposes stricter requirements on supervision, care, documentation, housing conditions, feeding, irrigation and breeding. The animal welfare area, with potential challenges, will also be addressed in the forthcoming Annual Report on Agriculture and Food Policy. It is the Food Authority that supervises compliance with the animal welfare legislation. Supervision of animal welfare is a priority task for the Food Authority and is also one of three specific priority areas in the letter of assignment from the Department of Food Control in 2011. Food supervision is located throughout the country and has staff with good professional competence at all district offices. The closeness of food surveillance to users and the fact that they supervise both animal welfare and animal health facilitate competent, comprehensive and effective supervision. At the same time, it may be difficult to obtain an accurate distribution of the supervisory activity in relation to animal health and animal welfare, as both considerations may be followed up during the same surveillance visit. The annual report of the Food Safety Authority indicates that of the time spent on the exercise of supervision at the district offices, animal health — and then for terrestrial animals — 13,1 p.m., fish health 6,6 p.m. and animal welfare 5,6 pst. in 2010. So the total was about 25 pst. by the exercise of the supervisory period used for the health and welfare of terrestrial animals and fish. The Food Authority has a large task portfolio. The work to ensure food safety is and will continue to be the most resource-intensive task of the Food Safety Authority. About half of the surveillance period goes to meat inspection and other food inspection. Food surveillance has been a developmental agency since its inception in 2004. They have made changes in internal organisation and division of labour in order to be as adapted as possible to the challenges. The interaction with other institutions and trade unions has also been strengthened, including in particular: in the light of the 2006 E. coli case evaluation. A comprehensive new system of professional and supervisory oversight was completed in 2010. With regard to the issue of the evaluation of the Food Authority, I would like to point out that the National Audit Office is currently carrying out an administrative audit of the Food Authority. The Food Authority has also started work on assessing the overall organisational leadership of the Food Authority. The results of the management audit will be part of the basis for the work on these organisational leaderships. I therefore believe that it is currently not appropriate to carry out any other evaluation of the Food Safety Authority. I would like to await the conclusions of the National Audit Office and the results of the Food Safety Authority's own review of the organisational leadership before deciding whether there is a basis for further evaluation. The answer to the interpellant Tjældal's question is therefore that I do not see an immediate need to restart a review of all the conditions surrounding animal husbandry and welfare. I want to await the results of the above processes around the Food Safety Authority before assessing the need for a further evaluation of the establishment. Finally, I would like to stress that I am concerned that all animals are to be treated in a good and proper manner. Proper attitudes of competent and responsible animal owners are a prerequisite for this. We as authorities shall contribute through an up-to-date regulatory framework based on available knowledge of the needs of individual animal species as well as through good and effective supervision. Here I believe that the Food Authority with its current organisation and prioritisation of supervisory areas is doing a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1021	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but will not hide that I am a little disappointed that he is not willing to go in and evaluate. It is referred to the administrative audit of the Food Authority. It's okay to have an administrative audit, but you can rather go in and look at the statistics, and see how it works. That's why I'm actually going to recommend the Council of State to be more proactive, not just look at what another supervision might do. It is, after all, the job of the Council of State to oversee what is going on. For example, let's go. to Finnmark, we can see what the Food Authority has managed to do there. There you say you're inside, but you can still see that large animals happen every day. We also have research reports, including: from the Finnish Ecosystem, where the following is said: ‘The project has collected data from slaughterhouses, inter alia, to assess whether plurality in reindeer flocks leads to lower slaughter weights on the animals. Such a relationship has been widely accepted in the past and was also clearly demonstrated in the Finnish Ecosystem. However, the study has also shown some of the biological mechanisms behind the low slaughter weights. Foetals of sims slaughtered in the winter were examined, and the foetuses were found to be smaller in sims from high-density populations than in the low-density populations. So pasturage has effects on the reindeer already in Mother's life. – In addition, we see that the teeth of pure from high density areas in Finnmark wear faster than in all other comparable cervid populations. In fact, the teeth wear down to the gums in just a few years. – The reason is the grazing, which means that the cleaners have to eat more high-fibrous diet. The animals are also likely to get some sand and stone as a result of degraded pasture vegetation. – The poor teeth make the animals even less able to take advantage of the poor diet they receive.’ And... ‘Reindeer operations are reversed by a large amount of myths and assumptions’. This is thus stated in a research report — paid by the Norwegian State — on how the state is up there. The Food Authority has not intervened at all. Slaughterhouses give feedback about large slaughter losses in percent, because the animals are so debilitated. It is so bad that in some places with hard graze, it is not the inner file to get on the reindeer, because it is so debilitated. So it's animal tragedy every day. The Food Authority is responsible, and the Food Authority has two hands. Then I think it'll be a little proactive by the Council of State to wait for you to go in with the Riksrevision. The national audit has produced up to three reports in Finland in the last ten years, which is discouraging. The reports are delivered, but they are unfortunately put in the drawer of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1052	The next speaker is the Council of State Ärldal – excuse me, councillor Breck.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1055	I was going to say that it won't be as long as I'm the State Council in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. I just want to comment on some of the recordings that came in the main post of the representative, Tåldal. I think it is going well in the characteristic that there are animal tragedy every day in the reindeer farm in Norway. It is true that in winter one was concerned – before one came to winter pasture – about the situation in the industry, especially in the context of vulnerable slaughter. Now it turns out that this situation has been under control, and that no animal tragedy has occurred in Finnmark every day of winter, as claimed by this pulpit. This is clearly the case, and I have also stressed this many times earlier in this Chamber, that if we do not get control of the reindeer number, and if we do not implement the measures we are now working hard to follow up – i.e. to establish rules of use, to get a figure in place and to raise the level of slaughter – we are at risk of suffering animal tragedy. But so far there is a situation that is closely followed by the Food Authority, and which, in my opinion at least, is under good control. One cannot guard against animals in any way. You have to work hard all the time to follow it up. The second point I want to mention is the question of animal law. We have animal police in Norway. It's the Food Authority that's Norway's animal police. Food surveillance has competence in animal health and animal welfare and is present throughout the country. Maintaining this system is the best and most efficient resource use. Food surveillance has been told to give high priority to animal welfare, and they have received a number of new tools in the new Animal Welfare Act. So making proposals about a separate animal police force, in my opinion, could be resource-depleting in the situation we have today. So said representative Tåldal, the question of mobile slaughterhouses, and a situation in a special slaughterhouse that has had problems with their failure to comply with the legislation on toilet conditions – to be direct. We're working on that. We will see if it is possible to find solutions to ensure that the continued operation of that slaughterhouse facility can be provided. We are concerned with animal welfare in this regard. It is right that the representative, Mr. Treldal, stresses that having mobile slaughterhouses can be a good solution for many in several contexts, so we hope that we will come back to that in an appropriate way later. Finally, I would like to stress that animal welfare is an important area in today's political discussion. The new law we have provides a good tool to meet the challenges. Food supervision is our executive agency, and they're doing a good job.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1072	We can quickly agree that this interpellation concerns important issues. First, I would like to say that, in my view, the Minister of Agriculture has given an informative response with information on important actions undertaken in the field of animal welfare. It is done on the basis of St.meld. No 12 for 2002–2003. In 2009, the Stortinget dealt with the new Animal Welfare Act which entered into force on 1 January 2010. This was a very extensive legislative work, first in the government, and later in the case came to Stortinget – a thorough work with extensive consultations under the leadership of the excellent rapporteur, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr from the Progress Party. I am surprised that the representative, Mr. Träldal, apparently did not get along with this when he concluded in the interview that the last time the Stortinget discussed animal welfare was in connection with St.meld. No 12 for 2002–2003. Fortunately, I register that he refers to the new law now in his post here in the hall – but enough about it. At least a broad majority joined the Animal Welfare Act, where Section 3 on the treatment of animals was discussed in particular. Only the Party of Progress did not agree with the wording of Section 3, first sentence, that animals ‘have their own value irrespective of the value for human beings’, and that animals ‘should be treated well and protected against the risk of unnecessary stresses and stresses’. This last agreement was then fully agreed. As regards any evaluation of the Food Authority, it is not unnatural for that question to be addressed. The four inspections that were merged in 2003 were different, and it was easy to see that this was a very demanding process. In the context of such major reorganisations, it is usually said that they need to be lubricated with a little extra resources in order to put the new organisation in place. In this case, a very tight process was carried out, with a significant savings requirement. I think that may almost have to be said to be extremely demanding, but it is with satisfaction that I today register the Council's description of the Food Authority. Therefore, in the light of the answer, I conclude that we must first see the outcome of the Riksrevisions administrative audit project and the Food Safety Authority's own review before considering any evaluation. Furthermore, in the case of mobile slaughterhouses, I refer to the business committee currently working on document 8:117 S, where Tåldal is one of the proposers. The discussion related to that matter we get in Stortinget during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1085	Animal welfare is so numerous, and includes so many cases and types of animals. I believe that we politicians and the people of Norway else want animals to feel good and safe. But the measure and the degree may vary somewhat. Something that includes: I worry, animal welfare is out among the grazing animals, such as. sheep on summer pasture. Very many buffs die on pasture. That's the different reasons, but one of the main reasons is the mermaid's mermaids. Very many predators, such as wolves, bears, yerves and yerves, get herd relatively free, and for example. some of the bears become so-called perch bears and kill most for the sake of killing. The same is true of wolves. With the government we have today and a new notified report of predators, I am doubtful whether it will be better in this area. The way predatory policy works today, the predators get herd as they want at the expense of the buffalo. This is also to a large extent happening within so-called predator-free zones. This is because the authorities react too late, and at this time a lot of bumps have often been killed. When you know that an adult wolf can move up to 20 miles per day, the authorities have to react quickly and efficiently to take out the predators for which this is relevant. That is why I link animal welfare to the new report of predators. Animal welfare must go ahead of predators. Nor should it be the case that the notice of grazing for the year 2012 is a correct or desired policy – or is it the way to go. I'm 100 pst. ensure that buffalo keepers will do the best for the animals that are grazing. They often have day-to-day supervision, but if the predators are many and where they are not supposed to be, neither the buffalo nor the buffalo keepers have anything to do with. Only the authorities can sort it out by reacting quickly and efficiently.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1098	First, thank you for the interpellant that addresses a very important topic. Much indicates that food surveillance is not sufficiently able to monitor and monitor animal welfare in the country. The Animal Welfare Alliance points out that the Annual Report of the Food Safety Authority 2010 shows that several animal welfare problems are neglected, thus escalating to a critical level. Examples presented in the report on surplus reindeer at Finnmarksvidda are one of several themes that are also closely addressed by the interpellant and have been shown here today. The Animal Protection Alliance also points out that of all the resources used by the District Offices of the Food Authority for oversight in the period 2006-2009, only 5 pst went. for the supervision of the protection of animals. Food surveillance also writes in the annual report that animal welfare issues ‘are often difficult and resource-intensive’. A potential for improvement may well be present here. The right considers that persons who have animals in their care must have knowledge of the animal's behavioural needs and the animal's nutritional, social and physical requirements. Animals shall be kept in an environment of good quality of life and functionally healthy animals shall be a prerequisite for all types of breeding. The right also provided a big message about animal husbandry and welfare when we were in government. An ethical platform and clear objectives for Norwegian animal welfare were outlined, while emphasising the self-esteem of animals and the care and respect for the species of animals. When the Storting in 2009 dealt with the Animal Welfare Act, the government had taken out the wording of the consultation proposal that animals have self-valued. Therefore, the right re-encouraged the legal text of Section 3: ‘Animals have intrinsic value regardless of their human benefit. Animals must be treated well and protected against unnecessary stresses and loads.» The right-hand proposal received solid support in Stortinget. We also proposed to investigate the introduction of a compensation scheme for people and organisations doing community-based work in the form of caring for lost and helpless animals. At the same time, we stressed the need to provide a liberal budgetary framework for animal welfare students so that a good frequency of inspections can be carried out. The right also believes that it is right to legislate the animal protection subjects as part of the Food Safety Authority, as it will provide a better and more comprehensive control apparatus. The right has a high level of commitment for the Food Authority to be so strong that it can effectively prevent, detect and follow up animal tragedy. The problem is that more and more people are asking if the Food Safety Authority is succeeding, and whether they are showing good judgment in their work. A new example is the case of the winding-up of an animal farm at Højes in North-Borge. In the lofot post on 19 April, it appeared that a farmer was required to destock the livestock by 15 April, but he did not correct himself after the order. On the other hand, he showed that it is totally unethical and immoral to kill tall sheep and that pregnant animals are not to be transported during the weeks around lambing. Despite this, the Food Agency acted, and 300 sheep were sent to Horns Slaughter. The lofot post reports that they are aware that several of these sheep must have lambed at night at the slaughterhouse. Animal welfare and predatory policies are closely linked and the Storting House has already decided that there should be room for both domestic and predatory animals in the areas where it has been decided that Norway should allow predators. What we see, however, is that the government does not follow up on compensation and compensation. In the view of the right of animal owners to be fully compensated, and we strongly disagree that the right of the animal owner to compensation for the loss of large parts of agriculture in predatory areas may result in the granting of no full compensation to the animal owners affected by grazing practices, which is a very intrusive proposal which may in practice lead to the closure of large parts of agriculture in predatory areas. The problem of grazing and the poor enforcement of predatory policies was widely briefed by the entire business committee when we recently visited the Nord-Trøndelag. In examining the Animal Welfare Act, the Right supported the proposal for a labelling scheme for cats and dogs to be investigated, and that an investigation process should take into account that the problem of wild cats is not as large across the country. Alternative solutions could be that municipalities which are particularly plagued by wild cats and unidentified dogs could be allowed to draw up a municipal regulation that would impose labelling on cat and dog owners. I would have appreciated if the Council of State could say anything about what has happened in this particular area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1133	It's a very important area that's being picked up here today, and as many have been in the past, with animal health, it's an area that has a lot of perspectives, ethical, practical, and more food-efficient, to say it like that. I intend to address a problem that no one has previously mentioned here today, and that is fishing welfare and fish health. After all, it has begun to become some scientific evidence, which demonstrates that fish too feel pain, so that we must also start discussing fish welfare and fish health when we discuss animal health and animal welfare. It has, as I say, an ethical perspective on animal health and animal welfare, but it also has a very important industrial perspective. When it concerns the farming industry, which is one of our most important export industries, we know that it faces very difficult challenges. If we are unable to meet the challenges facing the industry in terms of fish health, the industry is at risk of having problems in this country, as it has in other countries. It is unlikely, therefore, for many reasons that the Food Authority has sufficient resources to follow up the farming industry, which is, as I said, one of our most important industries, which is expanding, and one of which is entirely dependent on good fish health for proper production and acceptance of the product on the market. So, to go over to what the others have talked most about here today – animal health and animal welfare. If we read the reports to the Food Safety Authority, they point out that it is particularly necessary to find good methods of monitoring animal welfare and animal health based on their current risk-based monitoring. But how to implement the risk-based monitoring can be read in the reports is a demanding work that has not been completed. For this reason, it is very important that the Food Authority should have the necessary resources to develop good methods to ensure that we have an animal welfare record that is in line with the decisions of the Stortinge, where we, among other things, have. they have agreed that animals have intrinsic value and that they must then be treated. So the resource base of the Food Authority is very important based on several dimensions. Then there is also the fact that the Food Authority has used a good deal of resources for a period of monitoring fur animals without solving the problems there. But here I might think that the solution is not to waste more resources on the Food Authority, but to abolish fur animal husbandry. When we shut down fur animals, we'll be freed resources that we can spend on other animal welfare, and it'll be very useful in the second animal welfare work. When it comes to the question of evaluation, it is that when a person makes very difficult organisational approaches and brings together entities that have partly different professional backgrounds and not least differing interests that go on food and food quality and on animal health, which can sometimes be contradictory, then it is a demanding process, and we take it as a matter of course that the minister follows up further developments.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1148	First, I would like to thank the Council of State for a good and comprehensive response, which he initially gave. Then I would also like to stress, since it suddenly appeared as a theme here, that the Senter party is not among those who want to wind up Norwegian fur nutrition. The starting point for this debate must be very clear. Norway is a world leader in animal welfare, and I believe it is important that we have a system and a law that is also up-to-date in this area. It is a challenge to balance the requirement of strict animal protection legislation and the consideration of those who are required to own animals, and in particular those who use animals in a commercial context, such as: in agriculture. Good animal welfare and food security are essential for good and viable Norwegian agriculture. Good animal welfare improves the well-being of domestic animals, which will in the long term be profitable for the agricultural industry. Norwegian agriculture shall be characterised by good animal welfare, which will be essential for both the quality of raw materials and the legitimacy of agriculture. With effect from 1 January 2010, we received a new animal welfare law in Norway. The exposure to this legal work in particular and around the welfare of animals in general has been high since the Storting received, and treated, the animal welfare message in the first half of the 2000s. The law covers both domestic and wild animals and farmed animals and hobbies and pet animals. In other words, it embraces very wide. On 19 April of this year, the Food Safety Authority also sent out to the hearing proposals for updating 48 regulations in accordance with the new Animal Welfare Act. We therefore believe it is unnecessary to review this law already now, after only one year of working time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1168	First, I want to thank the interpellant for raising an important topic. I am very pleased that the Advance Party is concerned about it. Now it's not that long since we discussed this. I have had two interviews, both on 11 March last year and on 18 November last year, with the same theme. I did not participate in the first interpellation, but it is very good that it is now promoted again. I think this is an important debate to take in Stortinget. I believe that the entrance here must be that the way we take care of animals in a society, is also a good indication of the civilization of society. That's a good indication of how we treat those who are weaker, and those who are unable to tell us about their rights. That's why there's an indication of the civilization of society. I also very much agree with the interpellant: I am seriously concerned about whether the Food Safety Authority is able to follow up this job properly. It is both about how much resources they have — the interpellant took up the percentage of resource use — and about the ability to achieve good animal welfare, it is about prevention. It's not just about the ability to be an animal police force and intervene when something's really gone wrong, but it's about prevention, it's about knowledge building. It's not just about one field in the industry, it's also about pets and big industries in the pet industry. That means that many people who really don't have it as their job need to have knowledge of animal welfare in order to be able to practice their hobbies properly. Examples of it: We in the Left arranged a mini hearing before we had this theme up in March last year, and when the veterinarians were asked what they were seriously concerned about in animal welfare based on their observations in Norway today, it was more solar answer that it was in the pet industry, like horses, dogs and cats, where breeding is a huge challenge. It is clear that no matter how much food supervision checks poultry and slaughterhouses, checking dog shows and breeding institutions in this field will be quite demanding for the Food Authority. Can they go in there with full gravity as well? And then we also see that the law here is a big challenge. The law says that in order for someone to intervene, it should be rough, and that means that it should be repeated several times. That means that the Food Authority does not really have the authority to approach a practitioner after just one incident, which we see is that you have in other countries. So I agree that giving a citizen a ban on nutrition is a pretty big intervention in the freedom of a citizen. So it has to be a pretty strict law for it, and it has to be a heavy burden of proof for it, but it's a challenge when we see that the pursuit of the profession is also linked to the ability to care for animals. In the Left, we have a big debate if we should have had our own animal police force. We haven't concluded that we're going to have it now, but I think it's important that the Council of State takes on the fact that we can't enforce the animal protection system with the structure we now have. I also think that we should have an animal entrance in terms of how we formulate the law. It is clear that the Left also supports the grips to be made in relation to the labelling of dogs and cats, but it is not only a challenge in municipalities like Oslo, where you can see animal tragedy in the streets, because animals also occur in forest areas in the North Trøndelag. The tragedies of the wild cats are more visible in Oslo, but that doesn't mean they don't exist in more rural strips, sail if there might be any longer between the cats you can see lying there. That's why I think you should have equal standards around the country, no matter what challenges you face. I believe that the Council of State should have some ambitions in this area as well, so I hope that in his last reply he will take the opportunity to say something about the ambitions of animal husbandry and not just waiting for reports.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1191	I fully agree with the interpellant, Torgeir Tåldal, that it is time for a new review of animal husbandry and welfare conditions and an evaluation of the Food Authority. Food surveillance shall manage the Animal Protection Act and shall work together with local animal welfare authorities to ensure compliance with the law. Only the name itself — the Food Authority — actually says that the main focus of this body is not exactly animal protection and animal abuse. In my opinion, it does not work satisfactorily as of today. There has been no lack of newspaper headlines in recent years that show that animal tragedy and anxiety messages are not being taken seriously, and that this is not a priority task. Unfortunately, little research is available on the extent of animal abuse in Norway. But there is a research report that shows three things. One is that animal abuse is rarely reported, the other is that the risk of being punished or deprived of the animals is extremely low, and the third is that it concludes that animal abuse is likely to occur much more frequently than the abuse known to animal welfare officials and police. I haven't found any statistics that show what kind of reactions, i.e. fines or prisons, that reviews result in. Just because there's little information available about this, says a little bit about the focus. I have taken a closer look at the tables relating to inspections, prescriptions and notifications made by the Food Safety Authority alone or in conjunction with the Animal Safety Authority. They show that the Danish Food Safety Authority does not in fact have an overview of what the notifications are about, nor what reports have given a conviction and what penalties have been imposed. So even if the responsible body does not have information about this, I think we can safely establish that we know very little. Therefore, it is time for a proper review here and an evaluation of the Food Authority. As there is little information available and extremely little research in this area, we have few points of view. However, as I mentioned, this was researched a few years ago. It was true that only a study of animal abuse reported to the Oslo police district and reports of animal abuse to the animal welfare officials in Oslo, Asker and Bærum. The study was largely concerned with pet abuse, as there is little farming of animals in this district. The research showed that out of a total of 101 reviews were about. 80 pst. hospitalised. Only 20 pst. got a response. Professor Guri Larsen thus concluded in his study that the practice at that time did not work well enough. If we're going to get better in this area, it's quite obvious that the Food Authority needs to be evaluated. Furthermore, I think we should perhaps look a little across borders at how it is done in other countries. In recent years, there have been some reports from Norwegian animal welfare organisations that animal rescue — or, as some people call it — should be a separate body, including animal rescue. This is the case in several states in the United States. The president and others in the hall may have looked at Animal Planet, who has made their own television series about their work. In England and Wales you have something similar to what's in the United States. Local supervision has been based on private organisations and their supervisory authorities have been legalised through custom. This is a structure based on a different legal practice and follow-up from what we have in Norway. These include: the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, abbreviated as RSPCA, which carries out inspections here. It is a charitable organisation that was founded as early as 1824. It has provided the basis for a number of similar organisations in other countries. This association has its own training facilities, its own inspectors with uniforms and its own call-out vehicles, and they are therefore very visible. According to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food there is an organisation that is accepted by the authorities and respected for the job they do. The organisation also brings proceedings before the court. According to annual reports, RSPCA reached a judgment in more than 95 pst. of the cases which they tried to bring before the courts. So it's a little different than in Norway, where barely 20 pst. of the notifications leads to a reaction, and we rarely hear that there are legal cases in this regard. What's interesting is that we have a similar organization, SPCA Norway, which has recently been established here. It is established on the basis of what it is like in England, and is already in East Agder, Hordaland and in my own home country, Buskerud. It has received a lot of praise and good publicity from the police, the media, veterinarians, etc. I hope you can take a closer look at how to do this in other countries when this is to be evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1208	The animals have no voice, and it is therefore particularly important that we as legislators ensure that the animal protection law, which protects their rights, is followed up. Governments say that a lot has been done and that new regulations have to be developed. But it doesn't help the animals unless the law is enforced in a better way than what we see today. Animals are often kept in captivity in a very limited area, totally dependent on the owner in order to meet all the necessary needs. When the owner fails, it has serious and cruel consequences. There are many reasons why animals are exposed to totally unacceptable living conditions. Lack of knowledge, lack of empathy, economic considerations or disease in the animal owner may be some of the reasons. We also see that children who abuse animals are often convicted of serious acts of violence at an adult age. So it's important that children from an early age learn to respect animals, learn that animals have needs, animals have feelings, and that they understand that pangs are either animals or others cannot be accepted. Nature is such that animals can be useful and happy for humans in countless areas, but using animals for our benefit does not mean that we have the right to expose them to great suffering, nor is it necessary. A good animal husbandry, which respects the needs of animals, actually gives a good record of what is left in terms of good health, more well-being and also often better profitability. Economics may be important in the case of farmed animals, but it is, as Trine Skei Grande said, also important for pet breeders. In some cases, breeding is seen where animals live under terrible conditions. This happens over a long time, and it is often reported without any consequences. I myself have been in an animal protection department a few years ago, and then I was involved in a couple of inspections that made a strong impression on me. Seeing animals in such a wretched constitution was more than I could imagine before I saw it. But what surprised me the most was that this wasn't the first inspection. That was the third inspection, in this case. They were debilitated animals. They had found dead animals. There were animals that went and trodden in their own dung. There were big dogs, and there were terrible conditions. What was said was that now it's getting pretty good! Now it's much better than the last time we were here, and at least a lot, a lot better than the first time we were here! The question is, have we gone too far for what to accept? In the case of pet animals, there are often serious personal problems in the animal owner’s mind. Taking the necessary action when a major animal husbandry failure is detected will also help the person who does not deal with the responsibilities it is to have. It is an obligation to report when one knows that animals live under terrible conditions and are subjected to abuse or neglect, but it is also an obligation to follow up. It does not help people to report unworthy circumstances unless the Food Authority provides for action. Unannounced inspections need to be carried out to a much greater extent because it is during unannounced inspections that conditions are really seen. It must then be a close follow-up when it detects conditions under which animals are not to live. Improvements are required, but the supervisory authorities cannot then withdraw and wait for many weeks and months before seeing what has happened. That's what I experienced that time. I also experienced one case -- it had been going on for three years -- with the x number of animals that had died in those years. It was a farm of cows, and it took three years for a judgment to finally come in that case. It must be done more quickly, and it also follows from the case that it is written about from Lofoten last week, where it has gone too long. Thus, when the Food Safety Authority identifies conditions where the animals suffer, the animals must be removed or measures taken immediately, and the Food Safety Authority must ensure that they follow up to ensure that the measures are implemented. If they don't fail in the same way. Then they are responsible for the animals still suffering. Prevention pays off, including in the case of animal welfare. It will also have a preventative effect, so that fewer animals are exposed to such conditions in the future, and that will allow savings to be made there. So I hope that the Council of State now looks at a new arrangement where this can be enforced differently from today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1231	I have to say that I am a little disappointed with the government parties, who have not assessed or will consider taking a review of what is happening. I also find it a little strange that you do not want it when you have a weekly look-up in the newspapers about animal tragedy, where the Food Agency also gets criticism of the way they do things. Here you're going to wait for an administrative audit from the National Audit Office before doing anything, instead of going in and looking at it. The council also claimed that it was wrong what I said about animal abusers at Finnmarksvidda. I'm just referring to research reports. It was from research reports I read when I told from the pulpit that fostering dies in Mother's life, that pure is free of teeth, and that they are tormented in the heel. There are scientists who have actually been paid by us in this room, researchers who have received money from the government to research it. And when we first grant money from Stortinget, we should perhaps also believe what they bring. A scientist also believed that the loss of purity due to predators is unrealistic, for the purity is in such a bad condition that if the predators hadn't taken it, it would be tormented and self-dead. Here's the time to do something. Here it's time to get an ascending system to go into this. And then to the representative Lange Nordahl, who indicates that we are world leaders in animal welfare. Then the representative should look a little bit and study what you do, what you put in it, how it works in other countries, because Norway doesn't have much to boast about here. What I'm actually registering is that we need to get a review and get better animal protection in this country, and we need a government shift. I'm recording that the Right will look at this again, the Advance Party will do that, and the Left will do that. So the only way we can get better protection for animals that can't say from themselves, as Skei Grande said, is to get a government shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1244	I would like to thank you for a comprehensive and somewhat exciting debate on animal welfare. We've been on many different topics, and it's clear that there are important issues that have been raised, that are being discussed, and that people outside the Storing and within the Storing are concerned about. I just want to say that having this kind of debate in this room is important because it focuses on the challenges that we face in everyday life. Then I must point out that regardless of the law, regardless of the supervisory authority, as long as animals are kept either in private or in commercial terms, there will be situations in my opinion where animal welfare legislation could be broken. Then it is important that we have a system – a law, a regulation, a follow-up system – that works as well as possible. I believe that with the law we have, which is modern, and which we have recently dealt with in this room – the regulation that we further develop on the basis of the law we have – and the Food Authority, which is a large and important body with a comprehensive supervisory activity, we have a system as a citizen so that we can have good animal welfare both in private and in commercial terms. But none of us can guarantee that there will be no breach of animal welfare legislation at some point, it must be emphasised. So I'll comment on some of the things that have been taken up. The representative Skei Grande mentions breeding requirements. It is true that dog owners and breeders are entitled to breeding in their businesses, but we see that the legislation is broken here because there are commercial interests. Many claim – and ask – that we have to have an animal police force, as one sees in reality show on TV. Yeah, maybe. But I would argue that it is most effective and most rational to use the Food Authority, which is our animal police, because they have a supervisory activity, and they are scattered throughout the country – and we do not depend on having a voluntary system, which you claim can be better. I am concerned that the individual in society will take responsibility for itself. In this case, I think there's going to be a very big discussion about what's public responsibility, but basically, I have to say to the representatives of the Progress Party who have promoted this interpellation, you don't focus anything on the responsibilities of individuals for the good welfare of animals. Maybe that's the biggest challenge we have to work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1257	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1273	Let me start with the overall picture first. About 20 pst. of the world's population, or 1 billion people, live in extreme or absolute poverty. The maximum number of absolutely poor, or those who live for 1 dollar — adjusted for purchasing power — or less a day — is found in South Asia. There it is. half a billion people living in absolute poverty. The largest proportion of the population is in sub-Saharan Africa, where 46 pst, or 291 million people, live for less than 1 dollar a day. Even with such large numbers, it's progress. The UN's Millennium Goal to halve absolute poverty by 50 pst. is likely to be achieved by 2015, but not in Africa. Combating poverty has always been a central objective of Norway’s cooperation with developing countries and with Norwegian development policies. The idea that aid alone cannot lift land out of poverty has been strong for 50 years, and is something I fully agree with. The measures have largely been in the fields of debt, aid, corruption, the environment, health, education and human rights. I agree with that – again – of course, but the most important factor is missing. Trade has at best played a limited role in Norwegian development policy. The World Bank, on the other hand, has been crystal clear: the world, and especially the poorest part of the world, needs more trade – and needs not least to trade more with one another. Growth explains the great success of Latin America in reducing poverty. From 2003 to 2008, the growth was about 5 pst. Not since the 1970s has Latin America experienced such strong economic growth. Poverty is reduced from 44 to 33 p.m., and extreme poverty is reduced from 19 to 13 p.m. The thousand-year target of halving poverty is 85 pst. for the region, and several countries have reached the target in full. Although economic growth does not automatically benefit the poor, growth in the world's poorest countries will be essential if 421 million people in the least developed countries are to live for more than half a dollar a day. But it's not just the growth that has reduced poverty. In most countries, growth has resulted in higher tax revenues for the country, so in Latin America, social expenditure has been increased by 6 pst. annual. Most of it has gone to pensions, but in those countries with the highest poverty reduction, different types of social projects have been established. In Brazil, where the extreme poverty is now eradicated, and in Mexico, which is about to reach the goal of eradicating extreme poverty, the support schemes such as Bolsa Familia and Oportunidades have been important. In some countries, for example: In Mexico, El Salvador and the Dominican Republic, the money sent by migrants to their families has also contributed to a significant reduction in poverty. I could spend a lot of time talking about trade and economic growth as driving forces to eradicate poverty. Let me be specific. Norway imports, as the interpellation text says, 99.8 pst. of our sugar from the EU. The EU is the world’s largest sugar exporter of white sugar and the EU is subsidising its sugar by EUR 3.30 per euro exported. In addition to the approx. 10 B.C.E. kr the EU spends on export subsidies, exceeds 6 billion. in hidden subsidies. Sugar is very profitable for someone. The 27 largest sugar beet producers in the United Kingdom each receive approx. Six million. kr on average in subsidies. The French sugar company Béghin-Say receives 236 million. EUR per head year in subsidies and dumps 450 000 tonnes of sugar on the world market. In 2003, the EU’s six largest sugar companies received a total of 819 million. the euro in public support. The EU’s common agricultural policy – or CAP – is in the case of sugar, nothing but a pricing instrument operated by authorities on behalf of producers and industry. The sum is very simple, overproduction and no imports of sugar. The last is a truth with modifications. The EU allows one poor percentage of EU consumption to be imported from the world’s 49 least developed countries. It corresponds to three days of EU production. In the case of overproduction, the figure is 5 million. tonnes of sugar dumped on the world market at prices of 25 pst. of the costs of production. Very few countries in the south can afford to subsidise their sugar farmers as rich countries do, and they have little opportunity to compete with the situation now. Mozambique, which I included in the interpellation text, has the opportunity to deliver – or could have delivered – 80,000 tonnes of sugar to the European market, and could have made 38 million today’s prices. dollar. Instead, they sell 10,000 tonnes to the EU. The loss of income corresponds to the total amount spent by countries in public support for agriculture and rural development. It is as simple as that for each aid dollar going to Mozambique from the EU, 1 dollar is returned to lost market access only in the case of sugar. Let me say right now that I recognise the right to support agricultural schemes in Norway. However, they must be converted so that they do not legitimise international dumping and prevent poverty reduction, as is the case today. When the Council of State does not want to deal with today's harmful agricultural subsidy regime, it is the same thing that has been tried for decades, with fatal outcomes for poor countries. The main problem is export subsidies, where Norway goes free. However, other subsidies that stimulate overproduction must also be eliminated — production leads to dumping — so that developing countries, not least in Africa, which have great opportunities in food production, can develop efficient agriculture and obtain income from the world’s low-buy markets in their own countries and in industrialised countries. Norway is currently a net exporter of food, although the WTO system does not catch this because fish are categorised in a non-agricultural agreement, the one on industrial products – NAMA. We're actually between 90 and 100 pst. self-sufficiency of what we have on our daily food table, although this on import statistics seems to be roughly 50 pst. – this is because imports are measured in calories, which we import a lot of, while those we produce ourselves have much less. A significant part of this is sugar. If we are to increase today's self-sufficiency rate, which seems to be a desired red-green policy, we need to produce goods we don't have a natural prerequisite to do. We could, for example, have produced sugar itself. That's what the Danes do in a big way. Of course, for the world's richest countries, there are no economic constraints on producing sugar, with the subsidies needed. But this kind of subsidy policy stifles poor countries' opportunities, not just to export their own goods, but to hinder their development. I have been consistent and let my post only deal with the sugar industry, precisely because it is an industry Norway does not have. It does – I hope – that we can discuss what we can do to combat the use of export subsidies, increase trade in agricultural products and help build an efficient food-producing sector in developing countries as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1307	I thank you for the interpellation. It's an important discussion, and I look forward to the debate. Integration into world trade is central to prosperity and growth. For many developing countries, trade in agricultural products is an important source of foreign capital and for further investment in, and development of, the agricultural sector. Developments in the agricultural sector are also particularly important in view of rising food prices and increasing instability in the world food market. The representative of Gitmark's question concerns imports of sugar from developing countries to the Norwegian market. As Gitmark refers to, is being imported today 99,8 pst. the sugars from the EU. The import from sugar producing developing countries is very modest. At the same time, countries, such as the United States, want to Mozambique to export sugar to Norway. I would like to point out at the outset that the Norwegian authorities have limited opportunities to influence where the imports of sugar will come from. Sugar is a product that is not subject to customs duties on imports into Norway, either from a country or from a developing country. All countries therefore initially have equal conditions for the export of sugar to the Norwegian market. Importers — the commercial operators — decide themselves from which countries they wish to import, based on criteria such as price competitiveness, quality of sugars and logistics. Contact with the industry shows that there are strict quality requirements for sugar, including: when used in industry. The impression is that EU sugar best meets industry’s overall requirements for quality and logistics, as well as price competitiveness. The EU has its own market organisation for sugar, which includes both production quotas with a higher price than the world market and production-independent aid. In the past, the EU also provided extensive export support to producers. This export aid has been wound up in the last few years, including: as a result of WTO panel impositions. So yes, the liquidation of export subsidies is an important topic. Cut in the use of such subsidies is an important part of the Doha Round negotiations in the WTO. For developing countries, this is a central requirement because subsidised exports from countries are involved in destroying their own markets for agricultural products. At the WTO ministerial meeting in 2005, export subsidies were to be abolished by the end of 2013 on condition that a WTO agreement was in place. This will be important both for the capacity of developing developing countries to produce their own agricultural production and for market competitiveness. It must also be stressed that Norway currently has very limited exports of subsidised agricultural products. This applies primarily to exports of cheese to other countries, such as the United States and the EU. The public debate regularly discusses Norway’s import regime vis-à-vis developing countries and whether Norway is too concerned about protecting its own production. I think this is not right. Our trade regime gives all developing countries benefits from imports into Norway. Through our GSP system, Norway provides duty-free and quota-free market access for a total of 64 u-countries. Norway is here among the countries that are most likely to open up the market. In addition to the 50 least developed countries, so-called MUL countries, this list was extended on 1 January 2008 by 14 of the low-income countries on the OECD DAC list. This scheme provides the poorest developing countries with clear benefits from exports to the Norwegian market. Norway also provides customs preferences through the GSP system for the more prosperous developing countries. Despite considerable customs freedom, imports of agricultural products from the poorest developing countries are limited. The EU is Norway’s main trading partner for agricultural products with at the lower end of 70 pst. imports. As with sugar, the sum of competitive prices, quality and logistical reasons are important. Of the total imports of agricultural products of 35 billion kr in 2010 came about 20 pst. from developing countries. The main import products are soya beans, meat meal, coffee, bananas, grapes and food preparations. The share of imports of agricultural products in the developing countries has increased slightly in recent years, including imports from the 64 zero-tol countries. Main reasons are a strong increase in imports of flowers from Kenya after the country was included in the zero duty system and increased imports of coffee. Namibia, Botswana and Swaziland also have special arrangements for trade in agricultural products, including: the possibility of duty-free exports of 3700 tonnes of beef without bone. By comparison — and I think it is important — EU imports of beef from these countries together account for around 9 000 tonnes. So our import regime is far more generous than the EU's if we take into account that the EU population is 500 million people. At the same time, beef is a sensitive agricultural product for Norway and the size of the quotas is based on a balance between Norwegian production interests. Developing countries are not a homogeneous group of countries. Thanks to large investments in the agricultural sector, several countries are now competitive on the world market and have become major exporters of food. At the same time, other developing countries want to increase food production, mainly in view of their own self-sufficiency. In the WTO negotiations, these countries require to maintain customs duties for their own food security. I believe that agricultural aid is an important tool to support developing developing countries in their own agriculture. The government proposes to increase support for the development of agriculture in the future with a special emphasis on climate-friendly agriculture. This commitment is made in the recent Report. St. 14 for 2010–2011, Towards a greener development – on the coherence of environmental and development policies. Import protection is a very important tool to ensure that we have a viable agriculture in Norway. The protection of imports is a prerequisite for ensuring the provision of Norwegian agricultural products and the achievement of fixed prices in the agricultural agreement. This is the basis for satisfactory income development in agriculture. The protection of imports is therefore necessary in order to ensure Norwegian agriculture. At the same time, increased production and trade in agricultural products could contribute to economic growth and increased food security in many developing countries. Through our preferential arrangements, the government wants to facilitate a greater share of imports of agricultural products from the poorest countries. In view of the fact that Norway imports around half of our consumption of agricultural products on a calorie basis, there should be room for a much larger element of commodities in the shops.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1343	I can start by thanking you for a «sweet» answer. Let me grab a few of the things that the Council of State also addresses. We agree on the importance of eliminating export subsidies. I was clearly involved in my first post, and I also thought that the Council of State was clear in its article. The problem is that the agreement reached so far says that export subsidies should be removed by 2013 if a new WTO agreement is put in place. When Norway actively cooperates with countries such as Japan and Switzerland, which in many areas can be said to oppose the setting up of a WTO agreement, this helps to extend the duration of export subsidies. Export subsidies are a historical anachronism. Export subsidies keep the poorest part of the population in a number of countries in poverty, and it is regrettable that Norway is not a driver for setting up a new WTO agreement, also in the interests of Norwegian agriculture. Then it is certainly fun for the Council of State, Mr Brerk, to witness an interpellation by a Right-wing man who is critical of EU policy, in this way the EU's agricultural policy. We can certainly agree on the dangers in a number of areas of EU agricultural policy. I myself have been an active driver towards our party group in the EU in order to eliminate this type of subsidies and do something about the whole EU's agricultural policy, i.e. the CAP. But let me take a very concrete example, except sugar. A few years ago, lamb from Namibia came into Norway, with 43 tonnes a year. Two years later it was up to 200 tons. It led the government to decide that a ceiling of 400 tonnes of duty-free sheep meat from Namibia, Botswana and Swaziland would be set. These are countries that all have zero customs duties on Norway. The logic was therefore obvious that there needs to be a ceiling on how rich the world’s poor countries will be allowed to stay when they trade with Norway. Governments also strike their breasts in the case of imports of boneless bovine animals. Yes, I agree that the roof is high. But why is it a roof at all? Does the Council of State want it to be a thank you for how rich poor countries will be when dealing with Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1356	First, I want to clarify some obvious misunderstandings that appear in Gitmark's last post. It is not the case that Japan, Switzerland or the G10 countries, including Norway, are opposed to a WTO agreement, as it was just said from the pulpit. No, all these countries are actively participating in order to secure a WTO agreement. But we are all trying – all actors from the 153 WTO member countries – to take care of their own interests, and then import protection is an important part of that discussion. But all those countries have agreed to wind up the export aid, which we are discussing here today. I have to say that I am fully able to travel to Geneva immediately – at any time – to participate in the conclusion of the WTO negotiations. However, I think that there are other actors than Norway and the G10 countries that are continuing to reach such agreements today, among others. free trade countries, including the United States, which have cotton subsidies. It is many countries that take care of their own interests, not only the developing countries, but also the richest countries. And there is no country that wants to end its own food production. That's why this gets complicated, so it becomes necessary to have thorough discussions, and today I think maybe industrial products are a bigger challenge than the traditional agricultural products in the WTO. Then I just have to repeat that we have very generous conditions for imports of meat from both Namibia, Botswana, the DAC and the MUL countries. And if we compare ourselves to the EU, which I tried to make in my first post, Norway, in relation to the population, has a relatively vastly higher import quota than that of the EU, for example. It has. So no one has to come to me and say that we are not following up the poorest countries in our practical policy. With regard to the import of sugar – to go back to it – I have emphasised that here is the Norwegian player who decides, it is Norwegian commercial operators who decide our own imports. I have been to the canteen here today and looked at the sugar we serve our own representatives in Stortinget. It's Dansugar and a French brown sugar. Perhaps the Storting itself could have made a greater effort to import fair trade products, or products from Mozambique, as it is said. It's a choice that everyone has. But it might cost a little bit more. It may also cost Stortinget a little more to make sure you use such sugar. It's a responsibility we all have to take, I mean, actually.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1372	The interpellation here today concerns imports of sugar from developing countries to the Norwegian market. The interpellant also used parts of his contribution to talk about the fight against poverty. Then I can't quite do it, because I just have to add that there's a party here in the Storting, too, that doesn't exactly like increasing the use of resources in their budgets. And that's exactly this party representative Skovholt Gitmark wants a closer cooperation with, if I haven't misunderstood anything. But I'll leave it. The interpellant will certainly have a point in this interpellance – I'll give it to him. I am also very much in agreement with what the Minister of Agriculture said at the end. All of us have a choice, we can make choices when it comes to what sugar we actually use to buy. I can't remember seeing fair trade-sugar in here at all. But such things should perhaps we be a little more concerned about in everyday life. In the public debate, this is the case with the Norwegian import regime vis-à-vis the U.S. and whether Norway is actually busy protecting its own production, sometimes discussed. I think I agree with the Minister of Agriculture that we have found a balance here, and that our trade regime gives developing countries an advantage for imports into Norway. However, despite considerable customs freedom, imports of agricultural products from the poorest developing countries are very limited. The EU is Norway's main trading partner for agricultural products, with around 70 pst. imports. And for sugar, as for others, the sum of competitive prices, quality and logistics is important reason for what we do well. I also agree with those who said that developing countries are not a similar group. I think that agricultural aid is an important tool to support the developing countries, precisely in the construction of their agriculture, because it is so much, much more. The EU has its own market regime for sugar, which includes production quotas at higher prices than the world market, as well as production-independent aid. It was said here that there was once extensive export support for these producers, but I have understood that in recent years this export aid has been being phased out. It was well decided that it would be liquidation by 2013, if one got in place an agreement. So yes, I thought that the liquidation of export subsidians is actually a very important topic, which we might discuss a little too rarely here in this room. Increased production and trade in agricultural products will, of course, contribute to economic growth and increase food security in many developing countries. The government, as has been said here by the Minister of Agriculture, would like to facilitate, through our preferred system, that a greater proportion of imports of agricultural products actually come from the poorest countries. I would also like to stress that Norway has a better import regime, which is clearer than the EU has. Then, of course, we can discuss membership or not in the EU as well. But I'm going to think that there are few people here in this room who would have voted for membership. Maybe it's just the signatures and another representative in the room right now, so I'll leave it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1389	It is an important theme for the representative of Skovholt Gitmark to address in Stortinget today. It's about large flows of goods, and it's about a lot of money. So sugar is one of the most subsidised agricultural products in the EU. By going back a little bit in time, until 2005, it turns out that 99 pst. of the sugar consumed in Norway came from the EU and that more than 70 pst. of which came from Denmark. On the basis of massive subsidies, Danish sugar farmers are able to compete with farmers, for example. from Mozambique, despite a high cost level and far from the ideal climate in Denmark. As the Norwegian import regime is never so liberal, subsidising sugar production in Denmark and other EU countries does not allow countries, for example, to do so. in Africa to compete with EU countries. Last year I was visiting Tanzania. What made a very strong impression was that the leader of the largest opposition party in Tanzania was going to choose that Tanzania would be aid-independent in two years if he came to power. It's probably very ambitious. But the point is that subsidising will prevent Europe – and the United States, for that matter – Africa from getting on the road in food production and exports, and we will offer aid instead. It is a mechanism that all parties lose out on because we do not get the economic development of Africa – we are talking primarily about Africa – that the continent definitely needs. At the same time, European consumers have to pay in expensive judgments for the subsidised foods. According to EU sources, the EU's common agricultural policy costs taxpayers more than £3.9 billion a year, so that UK households pay more than £823 per year in daily food expenditure as a result of EU subsidies. Why they do this is difficult to understand, and especially when it is seen that in some cases the subsidy is higher than the market price of the same product. This means that everyone loses: the taxpayers lose what the state loses on what the developing countries lose on it. This is the case with a planned economy and trade restrictions. That is what the government in its speeches is talking about – that they are going to take the initiative to get to trade facilities. So here they have the chance to make theory a reality. Finally, a little about the piece of sugar to the state councilman Breck. He encourages Stortinget to purchase his canteens of sugar produced in Mozambique. This could probably have been done by Stortinget, but it probably doesn't help that much, because the market mechanisms seem to be an overall assessment of price and quality – which the Council of State itself was also involved in – that underpins the choice being made. Therefore, in practice, no one chooses to buy a ‘more expensive’ product from Africa when they can buy a product that is subsidised so to the degrees — and Europeanally produced — that the product appears to be cheaper than the African product. So such an economic policy creates a lot of mess, and it creates losers. Free trade is the win-win situation. That's when you get the goods produced in the right place, with the right resources, and you get them sold at the right price.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1400	It's a very important question that's being raised, and it's a question that I've been interested in in in my political work. I found here that the representative of Skovholt Gitmark gives an outstanding criticism of the EU's agricultural policy and the EU's trade policy, and I can fully agree to that. So what we're a few about, and I think there's a lot of agreement about -- it looks like -- is that it's important to wind up export subsidiars. But then we have to remember that it's important to wind export subsidiars both directly and indirectly, so it's a big challenge there that people might not see when it's about to wind up export subsidianes. Now I can say that I am also on the business committee in the Nordic Council. The Nordic Council has now decided that it would like to send a joint statement to the EU on its work on revising its agricultural policy. One of the things that the Nordic Council so far has said that they want to be clear and clear about with regard to the EU's agricultural policy is that they have to wind up their export subsidies. So both Skovholt Gitmark and all the other representatives have the opportunity to talk to their fractions in the Nordic Council and get a heavy, clear statement from the Nordic Council against the EU's agricultural policy in that particular area. Then one must feel a little different in the other areas, if one needs it. But then I also thought that this example said a little about removing import restrictions to help the developing countries enter the market. As the Minister said, we do not have a customs duty on sugar imports, but they do not come into the market anyway. You have one thing, what we've been up to, that by avoiding dumping from those countries that have the economic ability to do it. But the second thing that I know more people have been busy about is simply that countries like this. Norway needs to work in concrete cooperation with a developing country and contribute to product development. Norway, as one of the possible importers of a product from a developing country, will then know what quality Norwegian and possibly other European markets place emphasis on the product. So Norway, through u-help and agricultural cooperation and in what way it should be, goes into and does a concrete, practical product development work with the developing countries, there are a lot of those I've been in contact with, who are calling for. For those in developing countries who are involved, among others: agricultural products, the point is not just to enter the international market. In fact, many farmers in developing countries are struggling to get into the chains of their own country. In some developing countries, they have actually started to have some chain markets, foreign chains, which dominate retail trade. The fact that we can cooperate with farmers and other producers in developing countries so that they can have a product quality that enables them to penetrate both on the international and national markets is actually one of the grips I think we can do more of than we have done so far. If there's some time left, I'd like to make some comments about growth. As both the Minister of Development and I have said very often, it is quite obvious, after the developments we have seen in the last ten years, that it is difficult to say against the claim that growth creates better conditions for everyone, even though you cannot at first eliminate the differences. But you raise the level for everyone, and when you do, you often get more interest in politics, which can also be used to fight for better distribution at a time. So growth is positive. But there is also a point there: for those countries that are in a build-up phase, a free trade must also be discussed a little, because it is important that they have free access to our markets. But at the same time, at least in a transitional phase, we have to accept that they are protecting their markets that they are going to build. That's what we did when we built up our industrial traditions. Then we protect our markets in the build-up phase, and we must accept that developing countries, even if we give them customs freedom, can impose restrictions on their vulnerable areas. So this is not an obvious free trade argument, it's a mixed argument.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1415	Sugar is a product that is not subject to customs duties on imports into Norway, either from a country or a developing country. All countries therefore initially have equal conditions for the export of sugar to the Norwegian market. Importers decide which countries they want to import from on the basis of criteria such as price competitiveness, quality of sugar and logistics. I expect that this is a policy that the Right agrees with. The EU has its own market organisation for sugar which includes both production quotas at a higher price than the world market and production-independent aid. In the past, the EU also provided extensive export support to producers. This export aid has been wound up in the last few years, including: as a result of an order issued by a WTO panel. Now, the Right is usually not the party that wants to stand up to the EU's trade policy, but I warmly welcome them to contribute to a fairer international trade. Unfortunately, it seems as if Right rather we in Norway want to put ourselves on the back of the EU and subsidise our imports for the benefit of the EU: Import protection is an important tool to ensure that we have a viable agriculture in Norway. The protection of imports is a prerequisite for ensuring the disposal of Norwegian agricultural products and the achievement of fixed prices in the agricultural agreement. This is also important to ensure the development of incomes in agriculture. The protection of imports is therefore necessary in order to ensure Norwegian agriculture. In the Center Party, we are concerned that we should not make developing countries just suppliers of raw materials, but rather help them build their own further processing of raw materials. Increased production and trade in agricultural products could contribute to economic growth and increased food security in many developing countries. The centre party considers it important to facilitate a greater share of imports of agricultural products from the poorest countries. Given that we import in Norway about half of our consumption of agricultural products, there is room for a much larger element of commodities in the shops.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1430	It was more than enough to grab hold of just in the last post. Let me take the most important thing. When the representative, Lange Nordahl, starts with fair trade, we are in complete agreement. When the representative Lange Nordahl ends up in the importance of Norwegian import restrictions and talks warmly about Norwegian current agricultural policy, we disagree. It's about people and poverty. It's the superstructure. It's about the possibility of developing countries, economies and people from the status quo into something else. That ‘other’ is just economic growth as a driving force. I think it is very important that Norway, Switzerland, Japan and the rest of the countries with which we work in the WTO show willingness to negotiate. If there is one point on which Norway has shown little willingness to negotiate, it is precisely within the State Council's own department where he has a great deal of freedom of action. I fully agree with the Council of State that it is good for Norwegian consumers to have choices, and it is good that there could also be fair trade products related to Stortinget. However, the major impact that both the EU and Norway can have will come first if we have a new free trade agreement that will allow us to compete on an equal footing, where export subsidies disappear, and where not least import restrictions are limited to a greater extent than they are today. For it does not help with just beautiful words – and this is for the representative Heggo – and assistance when it does not allow trade in just the products where developing countries are the main producers, and it is mainly agricultural products. The normal cycle of an economy is just starting with the production and export of agricultural products. Then you go on in a process where you go to the mechanical industry, and move on to technological goods right up to the end. That is the cycle that most countries have followed after World War II. That is the cycle we have to expect today's least developed countries to follow. One final point: Norway has in some areas overproduction. One of the areas where we have overproduction is in the case of milk. We have an overproduction of approx. 10 pst. of Norwegian consumption. Most of it ends up like cheese in the United States. Norway does much better than the EU. This is not meant to be an interpellation that goes into the throat of the EU. This is an interpellation that says that it is possible for Norway to use the Norwegian voice to bring people out of poverty, also by being a contributor to our national policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1444	Thank you for the debate. I think it's been interesting. I think it is good that we in this Chamber have this kind of debate. Let me just comment on a little bit about overproduction of milk in Norway and the claims made about our export subsidies. It's true that it's been focused on the oyster sport in the last few days. In 2009, they received 11 kroner per kilogram of cheese in export support, not 50 kroner, as claimed by some researchers from Bergen in their annual complaint about Norwegian cheese sports – let me just underline it. We have said that we should remove this export subsidy when we get a WTO agreement. Let me draw some conclusions from the debate. Firstly, we have to realize that the import protection provides more expensive food. However, import protection is a prerequisite for ensuring the disposal of Norwegian agricultural products and for obtaining fixed prices in the agricultural agreement. It is also a fundamental prerequisite for satisfactory income development in agriculture. The protection of imports is therefore necessary to ensure Norwegian agriculture. I have not yet heard that the Right will terminate import protection in Norway. At the same time, it is important to stress that Norway has preferential arrangements. In addition to import protection, we have preferential arrangements to facilitate imports from the poorest countries. Compared to the EU, which we have discussed a little in this matter, these schemes are relatively comprehensive. The preferential arrangements concern the poorest countries, where the need for investment in the agricultural sector is particularly high. Given that, as mentioned, we are importing about half of our agricultural products, there should be room for a much larger element of commodities in the shops. I fully agree with that, and I believe that the representative of Skovholt Gitmark also agrees. The overall impact of different import facilitations must be at a level consistent with the objectives of our own agricultural policy, which is an active agriculture throughout the country. We have to realize that there are contradictions in this discussion. Climate change and pressures on natural resources mean that perhaps the biggest challenge in the future will be to produce enough food to feed the growing population. As I said, the FAO has estimated that food production needs to increase by 70 pst. by 2050 to keep track of population growth. In order to do so, politicians need to facilitate the use of food production resources where they exist, including in this country of which we are residents. What we really need is to get people out of poverty, and then we need to produce more food. A billion people are starving. Then all countries have to take responsibility for making use of their resources. Trade in food I'm not an opponent of. Trade in food needs to be a supplement, an addition, to make even better use of resources and to ensure that we are able to get the best possible allocation of this important resource. We're going to produce more food in Norway. We're going to import what we don't have the prerequisites for making ourselves. The challenge then is to import more from poor countries and to increase agricultural aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1459	So the debate is on case No. 5 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1475	My question with the interpellation can simply be expressed: energy policy must provide us with secure energy supply throughout the country and lower emissions and environmental impacts elsewhere. Time experience shows that none of these targets have been met. What do we do with that? I want to elaborate on this. The first goal I referred to is secure energy supply all over the country. There is no need for a long presentation, with reference to, among other things. previous debates here in the Chamber. The snow smelting is going on in the mountains, the warehouses are being filled, and we can draw a sigh of relief so that rationalization was not necessary this winter either. The energy supply in Central Norway is uncertain until Ørskog-Fardal is in place. This connection must therefore be put in place as soon as possible. The situation in the Bergens region is also well known. It should also fall into place according to the government through line development, but network enhancement plans through Hardanger came so late that it could not be chosen as, in the opinion of many of the regional voices, the most environmentally friendly option. The second objective I referred to was the goal of a sustainable energy supply with the lowest possible emissions and environmental impacts. On 14 June 1989, Norway had its first climate change target. For the first time, the size reached a target of limiting greenhouse gas emissions. The aim was to stabilise CO2 emissions by 2000. It didn't happen. Since then, we have had the Kyoto obligations to work with. But now it is time for 2020 to be the next stage of climate change targets, when the climate agreement has determined that emissions will be reduced to 42 to 44 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. It was a tough goal when it was put in the climate agreement in January 2008. It was to be done in just twelve years. A quarter of that time has passed, and without opening up all previous debates on progress in climate policy, I just want to say that it is starting to be urgent to have the opportunity to come close to the objectives. With the exception of cyclical reductions in individual years, which are now following the financial crisis, greenhouse gas emissions have increased substantially over the entire 20-year period. So we have failed in a 20-year-perpective with climate policy. And of course, from a 20-year perspective, we all have to take responsibility for it – everyone who has been involved in governing the country during that period. So I'm not going to repeat my and Christian People's Party's thoughts about the government in that sense, we can save it for another occasion. It's important to recognize that over 70 pst. greenhouse gas emissions are energy use. This is energy use which can be made more efficient but which can also be replaced by renewable energy in the most part. This picture raises significant questions about energy policy. When two such key objectives are not met, the content of the policy must be discussed. 20 years ago, the energy sector became deregulated and market principles were introduced. The Norwegian power market gradually became a Nordic market, and it has again formed a pattern for other countries. The market would then provide the energy supply through free pricing and market participants assessing investments commercially. Networks and production were separated and network deployment was to be assessed on the basis of socio-economic profitability. The introduction of the power market was a proper grip, and it was a success. However, all sectors live in a governance/market balance. In all sectors, this pendulum will fluctuate and adjustments will be made to find the optimal balance based on our experience. Such debates continue to be held in this Chamber, in different areas and sectors. There are several examples of the need to adapt in retrospect in the event of deregulation and market entry reforms. Yes, there are several examples, it's probably almost a rule without exception. The classic picture is that when the pendulum shifts from regulation to market, deregulation, it starts off a long way, and then has to be adjusted slightly again. An example of this was the financial markets, where the financial crisis made the need for stronger regulation at national and international level, among other things. ex-post increased liquidity and capital requirements in banks to prevent new crises. Statnett is responsible for the central network – the national roads in our mains. As part of the liberalisation process that shaped energy policy in the 1990s, Statnett was given a purpose clause based on the so-called socio-economic rational operation and development of the central network. This means counting on projects on the basis of so-called socio-economic profitability criteria. This includes, inter alia: less consideration is given to climate objectives, regional and regional policy objectives and other key societal objectives. In other words, networks are very different than infrastructure, for example. is made up of infrastructure in the transport sector. To put it at the top, other sectors think about building the country when we build infrastructure, but in this area it's the calculator that has the final word. This also reduces the scope for policy action in order to speed up the changes we want in politics. The power market was a success in many ways. At the same time, 20 years later, we see that the market has not been able to provide security of supply. I think there is a need for us to rise above the classic discussion of who is to blame for what from who ruled in what periods, and that we are able to raise our eyes to a more general level and discuss the balance between governance and the market in energy policy. It seems obvious that energy policy is mature for such an adjustment, where we are looking into whether the policy toolbox has the right content to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves. An example that can further illustrate this is those climate targets for 2020, which are largely about just energy. In very fortunate circumstances, it may take at best seven to eight years to establish a new renewable energy power plant. There are eight and a half years left until 2020. And in parentheses, the 2-degree target requires that the 2020 targets are just a step on the way towards a more comprehensive conversion of energy supply and use. At that time, Norway’s emissions shall be cut by more than 10 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Network amplifiers are part of this image. It goes without saying that it takes a strong political action throughout this period to ensure that we get to the goal. How will all fossil energy use be phased out during this period, clean energy production being established equally quickly, related network deployment while ensuring the energy balance in all regions of the country? So it doesn't last to phase out enough fossil energy. The clean energy to be replaced shall be in the right place in relation to the phase-out, so that no regional imbalance occurs. And all of this in eight and a half years. This issue is about stationary energy supply, and in particular about emissions on the base, which have high point emissions and consumers of energy. However, this may also apply, for example, to: reduction of oil firing, which should be one of the least demanding measures to be taken with good planning. In transport, the supply structure is different and there are other issues, but there are also significant challenges. We do not yet know what obligations the renewable directive will entail for Norway, but the whole idea in the directive points in any case in the same direction: stricter governance towards a conversion that requires stronger political action. On the Internet, I would like to commend the government for passing through Ot.prp. No 62 for 2008-2009, in the previous period, took some action to increase the political focus on online development. Let me then, at the end, complement one of the most important steps that this must mean: the power market must remain a premise of energy policy. However, it seems obvious that an overall national plan is needed to ensure that energy supply and use can be converted to achieve climate objectives while ensuring security of supply in all regions. In other words, a national energy and climate plan is needed. And unless it comes quickly, the climate targets will once again suffer defeat, and we should not afford that. The introduction of a now-treated electricity certificate market is an important and long-term milestone for the development of new renewable energy. It will also change the assumptions for the forecasts on security of supply. There are now several voices expressing concern that there may actually be too much power generation in the Nordic region in the longer term. There is uncertainty about this. However, in relation to a more fundamental debate on the market and governance of energy policy, this is a market-based instrument. It's a good tool, but it's also worth noting that we don't know where power generation comes from, whether it's where we need it, where we're going to reduce fossil energy, and where we need it from a security of supply perspective. There are therefore many signs in the time that point in the same direction: we need stronger, overall governance in energy policy, we need a national energy and climate plan, and we need to raise the debate on energy policy to an overall discussion if we have the governance tools we need to achieve the goals we have set.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1530	Let me start by saying that the representative, Håbreek, has many interesting reflections about many important issues in the energy debate. Summarized, he still makes a hard judgment. I believe that there is essentially no reason for that. We can always get better, I'll get back to that. I want to say that the government has had very good management of the energy policy, and we have had that throughout all the years that have gone by the government shift in 2005. Throughout this period, the government has had a firm, stable and predictable policy. For the period 2005-2009, the energy policy strategy was drawn through Soria Moria I. The government’s political platform for 2009–2013 has drawn up a comprehensive policy for this enlargement period. The government will actively use energy policy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, while contributing to a safe and adequate supply of energy. In this context, it is also an objective to avoid regional imbalances in the supply of electricity. The Government has implemented comprehensive measures in all areas of energy policy to improve the conditions of the power market in relation to the situation before 2005. As regards security of supply and sustainable development, I will refer to the following figures to illustrate what we have done and achieved: In the years 2006-2009, the production of new water and wind power plants with an annual production capacity of 3,5 TWh was started, whereas, by comparison, installations with a production capacity of around 2,4 TWh, i.e. an increase of 50 pst, were put into operation for the period 2002-2005. In the years 2006-2009, a concession was granted to water and wind power plants with an annual production capacity of 6,0 TWh, whereas only installations with an annual production capacity of 3,4 TWh, i.e. close to a double, were granted a concession in the period 2002-2005. In the years 2006-2009, a concession was granted to district heating projects with potential annual production of 2.9 TWh, against only 1.1 TWh in the previous four-year period, i.e. almost a triple. The energy conversion effort in the direction of Enova has increased very strongly. For the period 2006-2009, about 5.3 billion were put off. kr to bet through Enova, towards about SEK 2.1 billion. kr in the previous four-year period — close to a triple. For 2011 alone, the total allocation of transfers to Enova amounts to approximately EUR 1,85 billion. kr. Then, stationary energy consumption has been at about the same level in the last four years, despite strong economic growth. This has contributed to a sharp drop in energy intensity, and measured against our value creation, energy use is close to 15 pst. lower in 2009 than it was in 2005. Despite the extensive measures taken by the government, and the improvements we have achieved, our power system remains vulnerable to fluctuations in hydropower generation. It shows the experience from both the winter 2009/2010 and the winter we just spent. Among other things, this has led to too many fluctuations in the price picture and excessive prices of electricity. I think we have to take that into account in a system based on hydropower, and where the ratio of rainfall to temperature has a lot to say for security of supply. My job and the government's job no. 1 is to provide a more robust system for the future, which reduces the risk of these kinds of fluctuations and the risk of these kinds of situations. In addition, greater attention has become necessary in recent years to the power situation in some regions. To a significant extent, the major regional challenges result from decisions taken over the period 2002-2005 that led to strong growth in electricity consumption in the regions, without sufficient measures being implemented by the then government to counteract or start countering the impact of the strong growth in consumption on the power market. The government will therefore pursue the policy pursued from 2005 with comprehensive measures. These measures will be key elements in making Norway a more environmentally friendly energy nation. The policy for the years to come will have the following main elements: first, increased renewable energy production, second, more efficient and limited energy use, and thirdly, the strengthening of the transmission system. In order to continue to strengthen renewable energy, a single certificate market with Sweden will be established from 1 January 2012. This will lead to a large-scale deployment of renewable energy in the two countries — a total of 26.4 TWh. This is a key element of government policy both for the development of environmentally friendly energy supply and for further improving security of supply. Furthermore, it is a central element of government policy to streamline and limit energy use. Energy can continue to be used more efficiently. Exploiting these opportunities requires investment. It is important to have a long-term and stable working environment. In the introduction of a single certification market, the government will ensure this by focusing Enova’s efforts in particular on energy efficiency improvement, heat and the testing of immature technologies. In all these areas, unsolved tasks remain. A strong strengthening of the electricity transmission network is necessary to improve security of supply and to facilitate increased power generation from renewable energy sources. The Government therefore attaches great importance to the implementation of the development and improvement of the transmission links. Networking cooperation in the Nordic region will be important. There are large investment plans in the transmission system in the coming years. Statnet has investments at a total cost of about 40 billion in its network development plan. kr for the next 10 years. All of this will be invested according to the positive social economy criterion. I think that is fundamentally positive. I have a very hard time seeing what would be the alternative to that. We have announced that we want to come to Stortinget both with a big message about the network and a big message about energy policy. The focus of these messages will be on the design of energy policy in the years to come, including after this ageing period. As part of the basis for this work, the government has now reduced a wide-ranging range of energy. This sample shall assess the long-term energy and power balance for Norway by 2030 and 2050. The work of the sample shall be completed on 1 March of the following year. A main purpose of this Communication will be to provide the basis for a new, forward-looking and broadly anchored energy policy platform. It will enable us to meet the challenges in the energy sector in the decades to come. Such a communication will also give the Storting the opportunity to discuss our future energy policy, including: energy supply and climate challenges can be seen in context.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1558	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I said in my speech that I challenged a debate where, as I said, we raise ourselves above the question of who is to blame for what, that we look at a more general level to discuss the balance between market and governance in energy policy based on the basic objectives we have set. I'm not quite sure if the Council's answer was an answer to that, but it was still a review of what the government has done and started. Now the Council of State thought that I was making a tough judgment on energy policy, and I did so. One can discuss the strength of it and how powerful that judgment should be, but I do not think one can escape the fact that the supply situation in the country is not good enough. It's not acceptable for us to experience in 2011 that we're going against the vanguard with the rationalization ghost hanging over us, and that the regional situation is the way it is. I also feel that the Council's response shows that the government has done some good on renewable energy, which is positive in the context of climate change. That's what the government wants. But the answer to the description I gave about where you are on the schedule to achieve the climate goals, and how busy we actually are, was missing in the Council's response. In that context, I think it's a little surprising that you have chosen to set down a sample that will work on the energy policy before writing a big message. Because when that notification comes, it is too late to launch energy policy measures that will have an impact on emissions by 2020. I think that the Council's response in so far invites many further discussions, but I am facing the challenge. Based on the renewable directive, on the basis of climate targets, on the basis of the time perspectives we have, and the fact that neither the increases to Enova, investments, etc. have solved the supply situation we actually have, until now, I invite to a deeper reflection on whether we have hit the nail on our head in terms of the balance between market and governance, and what the Council of State's reflections about it are. I hope not only to hear a system defense and an oil and energy minister, but also to meet the ideologist and socialist Ola Borten Moe in the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1569	I was challenged by the opposition that at least in this forum we should raise ourselves above the debate on who is to blame and who is to do what. It's a challenge I'm going to try to take, even though I have to admit that I think it's easier said than done. This is one of those fields where, not least, the opposition in the last five and a half years has used unusually strong shots and had a large focus. I stand by my words that not least the interpellant in his post, but also the opposition has many times filed a hard judgment, which I believe is not the basis for collapsing. The supply situation is an essential keyword. I agree that it is not good enough. I agree that we have to do everything we can to avoid getting into situations where rationalization is an alternative. However, I would like to recall once again the Storting about the fact that in a supply system that essentially relies on it rains, and in a market that is heavily dominated by how cold it is out there, we will have to experience that in periods where we get a combination of very little rainfall over time and very strict cold more winters in a row, we have a completely different and much more demanding situation than when weather conditions are the opposite. Then it's our job to make the system as stable as possible, and to the extent possible, we take control and control the weather gods. We are also challenged by a more ideological debate related to market, governance and social development. To that I have to say that I share the analysis that the new energy law that my predecessor Reiten implemented has been essentially a success, but that there is a need to think new. I feel that the notified measures now are essentially an answer to that. Green certificates are a market-driven but very strong incentive for new production to enter the market. It will improve energy security, and the notified network investment plans are a huge leap forward to improve the infrastructure for the transport of energy in that country. The Committee that has been set down will also look at energy policy in the perspective of 2020, 2030 and 2050 – there is reason to recall that climate challenges are not just going to last until 2020. Maybe we'll take the most important steps in the period that comes after that. I think that's good reason for this hall to discuss. So I'm going to end by saying that what I think we need above all now is more of the government's policy, and that we get implemented in time the measures that are already announced, without any part of the opposition putting too many links in the wheels for us.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1582	Norway is a country with a huge supply of energy, and we have great opportunities to expand more on oil and gas, but also on renewable energy. Few countries have as much access to energy as we do, and we must use it in a sound and sustainable way. We have a lot of hydropower production, and we have plenty of access to oil and gas. We have many enterprises and jobs related to the production and processing of Norwegian energy resources, and the government has decided that green jobs in energy production and environmental technologies will become a new growth industry. This requires strong political governance. I think it is positive that the interpellant from the Christian People's Party is asking for more political governance in the energy sector. I very much agree with the interpellant when he wants to have as much political control over something as important as energy policy, but I think he has a challenge when he's going to get his friends on the civil side on such a line in Norwegian policy. The Progress Party and the Right will rather go the opposite way on such questions. For them, market governance is the only right thing in most areas of society. The red-green government has a vision that Norway will be an environmentally friendly and world-leading energy nation. The government clarifies that in Norway energy policy is both welfare policy and climate policy. This requires good political governance of energy policy. I agree with the Council of State when he says that this government has very good governance of energy policy, and that this has been the case over all the years since the government change in 2005. For the Workers' Party, it is also important that energy policy be structured in such a way that income benefits the whole country, and so that the values fall to the community. Therefore, the current system of withdrawal of hydropower resources is also so vital to maintain. The Council of State has given a comprehensive response to the nature and achievements of the measures taken. This shows that a lot is happening in this area, but the need for force is also increasing. The joy is that there is a significant increase in renewable energy production. There has been a very good development here since the red-green government took over in 2005. It is also important that we have made a significant investment in energy conversion. I am pleased that there is strong attention to how we can increase energy production in a safe and good way for nature and the environment. We don't have so much sun to generate energy here, but we have water, we have a lot of wind and we have tidal water to mention something. Therefore, there is an important signal when the Council of State signals further commitment to increased renewable energy production. Strengthening the transmission system is also of paramount importance for this whole. This is particularly important to improve security of supply across the country. Without this, there is little use in increasing production. Let me add in this context that we have to realize that if we're going to do this, we also have to be able to accept some careful interference in nature to get the lines out and get the force out. We cannot expect access to power and security of supply across the country without this being noticed in any way. That is why I believe that the government is able to balance production and line running with good environmental and nature conservation. I look forward to the consideration of the forthcoming Energy Growth Communication, and I am pleased that there seems to be a significant majority in the Storting for a continued strong political governance of energy policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1605	The previous representative's introduction was good, because he points out how much energy Norway has. We export ten times more energy than we consume ourselves. The paradox, on the other hand, is that we have gone through this winter with a risk of force rationalization. Statnet considered the power supply to be arduous, and electricity prices have risen significantly. It does not testify to a successful policy. When one initially has more than enough of something and yet manages to make it almost a defect, it testifies that the government has led the wrong policy and not good policy. Equally full is the theme that is being raised today, very important because good energy supply is essential for a well-functioning society. It is important for the welfare of most people; it is important to provide the basis for employment in business. But that is, the experience with five and a half years of red-green energy policy is higher electricity prices, a greater risk of a power supply crisis and that more of the industry is exposed in the power market – the opposite of what the government promised. I disagree with the interpellant in part of the premises he puts before the debate, because he said in his post that the market has not been able to provide security of supply. It is the public that is responsible for security of supply. The question is whether the market signal to politicians has been followed up politically. It doesn't matter to my knowledge. There is the problem, not in a diffuse market. I suppose I have the Council of State with me in that analysis, because Prime Minister Stoltenberg in this Chamber in the March Question Time last year said that we should not run and owe on a 'diffest market', because it is not a market that is more regulated than just the power market in Norway, and then it is a political responsibility. So have we taken over the signals that the actors have sent? No, I mean, through the concessional treatment – not necessarily so much under today's state council, because at least I get a feeling that he's quite positive about hydropower – we see that for example. The fabric was not built out, it was protected. Sauda was significantly reduced, and Otta was also significantly reduced. This government had an entrance into the energy debate where small power plants would not be stimulated by green certificates. There, the government has changed its policy. But to stand on this pulpit and say that the government has had a firm and good policy for five and a half years – then you haven't followed it for the last four years. There has been a significant policy mix — especially in the last six months — in a positive direction. That's why I think things are going well. That is why I am also in favour of the new Minister of Energy, not based on results, but based on the direction I now see. But don't come to me and tell me that that's the same position they had five and a half years ago. What is the problem with today's energy debate is that the government has spent four to five years trying to figure out what they want, and then they end up with the solutions that the Progress Party and the Right have been promoting for a long time. Then I'm really happy, but it's still four to five years wasted because you should try the wrong solutions first. In the same way that the concession system has created many projects, the promises of significant subsidies have also been made through, for example: Green certificates and feed-in tariffs have caused many projects to cease. It's not an argument against a green certificate, but it's an argument that things should happen much faster when things were first promised. Now it looks like things are going to work out. But that's also why we have to be able to interpret history differently from what the Minister of Energy is doing. Now, when many concession requests come into place, it's because the framework conditions have finally come into place, not because other things have suddenly come into the picture that are so much better. We're also going to assume that politicians run the network companies. The state has asked three times to increase equity under today's government. Three times they've got no. Thus, the local network companies are encouraged in income regulation not to invest in new network production, because maintaining networks generates more revenue than building new networks. So it is again the political framework conditions that are a problem, not the market. Then I'm very pleased with some of the signals that I might have picked up from the Minister of Energy in the media, because the Minister of Energy when he was a magnificent, talked a lot about imposing social responsibility on the power companies in law. You had to cut the cables abroad. You were supposed to run the magazine fillings. It's not the signals now. Now the signal is that the market, the energy law, basically works, adjustments need to be in place, and that is naturally 20 years after a law was passed. But we should also remember that this law was evaluated under today's government just a couple, three years ago. So there was no need for major changes, but only adjustments. That means that today's government, despite the great words that a political man should rule and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. It is in the way that political signals deal with the law in relation to building up new strengths, that the issue is. There, I think things are on the right track, because one takes more party and right-wing policies, and I'm glad that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1626	I registered that State Council Ola Borten Moe says that the government has been well-managed with energy policy since 2005, and I also understand that Bendiks H. Arnesen is of the same opinion. On the other hand, I am a little uncertain about business and households in parts of the country, among other things. Middle Norway, shares the perception that it has been a good policy. However, I note that the Council of State and the representative believe that the government has had good governance with this energy policy. So then we might also know a little bit about the responsibility. The background to today's interpellation debate is that in the last two winters we have experienced a much more difficult supply situation than usual. According to Statnett, low rainfall, problems with nuclear power plants in Sweden and high power consumption have been the main causes of high electricity prices. This was also the background to a proposal by a representative, such as the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities and the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on The right share the interpellant's concern about the consequences of a strained force situation, and not least we are concerned about the situation in Central Norway. The right has therefore raised the power situation in central Norway a number of times with the government, both in the form of representative proposals and in the form of interpellations here in this Chamber. Unfortunately, we have received little concrete action from the government, in addition to the fact that three former energy ministers have repeated the wording that they look at the matter and have dialogue with the actors, as well as that they have continued to owe the previous government. Now I see that the fourth energy minister under this government, today's state council Ola Borten Moe, in the Address Paper today promises a crisis package for Middle Norway. But if we read a little bit more in the article about what the Council of State actually promises, it is unfortunately disappointingly little new. He will, like his three predecessors, continue to look at the matter and assess whether Enova is going to spend a little bit more money in the region. That's all. It's little new compared to what his three predecessors have said in the nearly six years of today's government has been in power, six years with almost continuous power crisis in Middle Norway. For almost the entire six-year period, the right has called for an action plan to address the power situation in central Norway. We have pointed to various measures that should be included in such an action plan and have, among other things, proposed that a gas power plant with CO2 management could be built on Møre, where the State takes the additional costs of cleaning, unfortunately without having been heard by the government parties. However, the right does not believe that there is more political governance that can provide us with better security of supply, either in central Norway or in the rest of the country. Rather, it is the political governance we have seen, among other things. in relation to gas power plants, which have put us in the situation in which we have come. The interpellant justifies its demand for more political governance that three-quarters of Norway’s greenhouse gas emissions are due to fossil energy use and that, despite a broad consensus over the last 20 years to limit emissions, emissions have increased. However, I would like to point out that this has little to do with power generation. Norwegian power generation is almost 100 pst. renewable and emission-free. It makes it extra challenging to reduce our national emissions because we don't have any coal power plants we can shut down and replace with more renewable energy. On the other hand, we should make even greater use of our large renewable energy resources to reduce emissions in our neighbouring European countries, which have just the possibility of allowing more renewable energy from Norway to replace its own coal power generation. Therefore, the Right totally disagreed with the Minister of Oil and Energy when, immediately after he joined, he announced that he would have a more limited deployment of the power transfers abroad. Limiting our power exchange with other European countries is bad climate policies, as well as poor energy policies and poor industrial policies. It's just political governance like this we don't need. I am pleased that the interpellant, as I experience him, is also a follower of a strengthening of the transmission links to our European neighbouring countries, and that with increased political governance of the power market he will not reduce the possibilities for increased power exchanges with the rest of the world. However, there are other forms of political governance that I perceive the interpellant wants to have, and there is a Right disagreement. This applies, inter alia, to: to introduce a parallel KILE cost if a power company is unable to deliver electricity. It will be a step backwards in terms of the Energy Act. Indeed, the principle of KILE costs cannot be transferred from the network to power generation without further delay. Unlike power generation, which is part of a market with several competing players, network operators are in a monopolistic situation. It is therefore not appropriate to compare production and networks in this way. In the Right view, it's going to be negative for the current customers. In order to prevent water storage going empty, with very high electricity prices as a consequence, the transmission links to the rest of the world should be strengthened so that more power can be imported when Norway is in a deficit situation and exported force in a surplus situation. At the same time, power generation in Norway needs to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1655	The interpellant discusses themes that have been discussed several times before, precisely because they are important. Climate challenges and national emissionsreduction obligations must be at the bottom of the further development of energy policy, which must be based on increasedrenewal and increased efforts. At the same time, transmission capacity has been improved centrally to target. The objectives of the centre party are sufficient power generation, security of supply and equal prices of power across the country. Norway has experienced, as the interpellant points out, for other winters in a row of high and unstable power prices. This is a major challenge for both business and individual households. The force situation deteriorated sharply in the 2000s as a result of strong growth in demand for power. In particular, this was linked to the expansion of the aluminium factory on Sunndalsøra and the entry into service of the Worm Lange. Since its accession in 2005, the government has taken a number of comprehensive measures to improve this situation, as explained by the Council of State. The government has taken a number of good steps to improve the power situation, especially in the exposed areas, such as Middle Norway and the mountainous region. The force situation in e.g. Middle Norway is a complex challenge. It is linked to weather and rainfall, power generation and power flows from Sweden, economic growth, energy prices, industrial structure development and energy efficiency improvement. This is why the government, as the Council of State said, has launched a number of different measures to address this. The government has taken action to increase security of supply and increase energy production and has focused on remedial measures for those who were hit hardest. The government will review the framework conditions for the decommissioning of the power plants. We want the government of the new agreement with Enova to consider changing the objective of also allowing for the strengthening of the supply balance in areas with a strenuous power situation. Large investments have been made under the auspices of Statnett — and even more is planned. Import capacity improved. In addition, measures have been put in place to improve the situation in exposed areas before new power lines are in place. The centre batch focuses a lot on measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We take the climate noise seriously and will be leading the process of leading Norway from fossil to renewable society. It requires, as Mr Arnesen of the Workers' Party said, strong political governance. We need to produce more renewable energy in order to replace fossil energy use in, for example. The car park. Therefore, the focus on energy conversion and renewable energy production has been strongly strengthened. The agreement with Sweden on green certificates, which several have mentioned, will speed up this process. Further efforts, signaled by the Council of State, are an important signal to meet the challenges of the future in this field. It is gratifying for the Central Party that representatives of the opposition also support this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1678	Finally, I would like to thank you for the debate. I can probably admit that I had hopes that it would be even more exciting, and that you reflected on the challenges we have in the future – but that's the way it is now. As an opposition party – I would say first – we reserve the right to point it out when we believe that the government has not done a good enough job, while on some occasions we want to raise wider debates to see what we can agree on in view of future needs. To the representative of Solvik-Olsen, I would like to point out that many questions can be asked about the concession policy, but it must be possible to combine the power market and stringent environmental requirements – unless there is a problem with the governance model. Moreover, with regard to the relationship between market and energy policy management, there should be a broad recognition that consumption can increase in the energy sector without an equal response to the supply side, as it takes, as it is known, about ten years to plan, develop and implement a power development project. There is a dilemma in market management of the energy sector over which it is worth reflecting. Of course, in the case of Central Norway, all governments that have ruled while the increased consumption in the region was planned must take a joint responsibility for it. It concerns Hustadmarmor, Worm Lange and in particular the largest project of them all, the expansion of Hydro Aluminium at Sunndalsøra, which, as we know, was planned over several years. Nevertheless, it is well known that the trade unions in the field do not have the power to predict the situation in time. What can we learn from that? That's an important question. I believe the debate shows that there is a need for an increased focus on the climate objectives agreed in this Chamber, by 2020. What does that mean in practice? Do we actually want to implement them? When 70 pst. of which energy use is involved, what does it mean for energy policy? And as you know, it takes ten years to develop an energy project – we have eight years left. It challenges us to what kind of political governance we want, if we mean something with the goals. I am not challenging any palace revolution; I am challenging a discussion about the balance between governance and the market. Not least, I challenge to ask whether we do not have all the mechanisms we already have, that politicians look up and make some plans that show how to meet these objectives, where we meet the climate objectives, and where we ensure that networks, production and consumption are balanced across the different parts of the country. All experience shows that stronger governance and more overall planning are required to ensure it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1695	I think that this debate at least shows two things – first, that there are very many who have an involvement in energy policy, and that energy policy is extremely important, and second, that there are degrees of disagreement in the field. It's nothing new. The debate on energy policy has been crucial for this country for over 100 years. My prophecy is that it will last another 100 years. This is a crucial field for our country. Of course, the government's ambition and approach is to build the country in such a way that security of supply, market situation, supply and stability are in line with the «time and urgency» and to provide a good framework for households, businesses and industry. We're going to do this based on what we're essentially seeing as a well-functioning power market, but it's going to be with a fixed framework. Just to say a little bit about the framework that I think we've put in place over the last five and a half years, which I think is important – first of all, the fall-back regime, where we guarantee a national public ownership of one of our most important natural resources. It guarantees legitimacy, and it ensures that the value creation of Norwegian footfalls will benefit society as a whole in the coming generations, and not just a return on capital that someone has to find on shooting in. We're going to build this on a sound and good concession policy. We've shown over the last few years that we're able to shape the system according to the needs. The number of concessions quadrupled in the period. Then we've doubled the appropriations for Enova, both to ensure energy efficiency and to ensure the phase-in of new technologies. We have been concerned with public ownership in the sector, in that we believe that Statkraft is an important tool and an important part also of Norwegian power policy, and therefore ownership is extremely important. And it is with great pleasure that we now find that many long-term power agreements, upon which our industry depends, are beginning to fall. And last, but not least, we have already implemented a change of pace in terms of the plans and implementation of long-extended power lines. It's a change of pace that's so far started, and we're going to see a lot more of it in the time that's coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1709	So the debate is on case No. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1725	The theme is work on renewal in Norwegian transport. Government parties have had power since the fall of 2005. Despite increased crowns in annual budgets, the state at the end of 2010 is that the roads have deteriorated and that the railways are still in poor condition. Many planned projects have been postponed and others lack funding. Traffic is important for the nation's value creation and settlement. Renewal in the transport sector enhances value creation, reduces distance disadvantages, reduces transport costs, reduces accidents, and simply improves the quality of life. Therefore, the renewal work in the field of transport is important. The current status on the road and rail networks shows a need for substantial renewal in the transport sector. The first national transport plan came for the period 2002–2011 and replaced the traditional sectoral transport policy plans. Work on the fourth NTP is too far-reaching. The roll-over of the plan has become a comprehensive four-year process, with extensive reporting and extensive investigation, consultation and meeting activities across the country. What does the government do to evaluate this structure, renew the structure and change and improve the structure around the national transport plan? Does the government intend to allow Norwegian environments – or even better: foreign environments – to look at the Norwegian approach to NTP and evaluate and make recommendations? The party of progress recommends it! The Progress Party recommends this, among other things: with regard to process and methodology, in relation to linking clear and long-term financing to investment plans, and in relation to setting time targets for the completion of large-scale projects. Process and methodology apply, inter alia: the question of how detailed a national level at national Parliament level should and should be. Other countries do it differently. Many have better roads and better railways than Norway, although they lack oil money. Perhaps this is also because they have better plans or follow plans in a better way? Does the government have a change? The NTP document is national at macro level. Planning at project level and planning to clarify the area for the construction of a transport project is necessary. With today's system, it is comprehensive, complex, delaying, and costly. What is the government doing to increase planning capacity at project and area level and to simplify the planning process in these two fields in order to reduce time consumption? In the evening post on Monday 18 April 2011, Prime Minister Stoltenberg said: ‘It takes too long to plan new roads and railways.’ He wants to find ways to get construction going faster. But has it taken the Prime Minister six years to figure it out – six years after he took over as head of government, and with an ever-growing money supply? The Road Directorate has been building undersized roads for several decades. The traffic figures presented knew the Road Directorate was too low. Roads were cheaper but not adapted to real traffic volumes. This continues under this government. I point out that we have recently dealt with a matter on Rv. 80, where it is designed brown with four fields and two blocks – one of several fresh projects with the construction of a new undersized road. Is there going to be a renewal of funding with this government? The government’s NTP – the last – for 2010–2019 was presented as a huge boost for Norwegian transport. But in no way does it meet the needs. Financing is – incredibly – a bottleneck in one of the richest countries in the world. One year after the current NTP was presented as a huge leap forward, in March 2010, the Minister for Transport would have a proposal from the business community on investment in road and rail construction in Norway for a huge boost in Norwegian transport. Maybe a renewal attempt? There was a record card flirting with new financial instruments. The next day, on 23 March 2010, the Minister of Finance canceled this. Among other things, he said: Here in Stortinget: «I St. pp. No 1 for 2006-2007, the Government discussed the question of whether the current budgetary policy should be implemented in such a way as to prioritise long-term investment in assets rather than other expenditure on the State budget. [[...]] The Government also concluded that investments in road and rail continued to be granted in accordance with the applicable budgetary principles and that, therefore, no own debt financing schemes should be set up. This is still the Government’s position.’;» So far, the government's renewal is three separate budget lines – two on the road and one on the railway. However, there is no clear, predictable and long-term funding for its own budget line. It's almost the opposite. Does the government see it, and does the Minister for Transport see financing arrangements for construction of roads and railways in other countries that do not have oil and gas but far better roads and railways than Norway? The government has extended the system of interest compensation to include loans for the upgrading of county roads. Will the Council of State work to further extend the scheme, extend it so that the State Road Service and the Railway Agency also receive interest compensation so that they can raise government loans for investment projects in the road and rail sector, with comprehensive, clear and long-term funding? ‘The bureaucrats brake the road and the track’, writes the Evening Post on 4 March 2011. Why is the development of roads and railways so slow in Norway? According to a report, the department itself is a cause. It is the Directorate of Administration and ICT that concludes this in a report on the Ministry of Transport. The level of ambition is too low. The report raises questions as to whether the department has been awarded underlying offices such as the Railway Agency and the State Road Administration. Digi describes the Ministry of Transport as ‘set’. They say the department needs strong reorganization and renewal. Will the Council of State ensure that the Road Directorate and the Railway Agency are also assessed by Digi or others? Are these two floors also equal to ‘set’? Are these two floors brakes in the process of renewing Society Norway? How does the Council of State ensure that today's transport networks are looking for new methods and solutions? Liability for maritime transport is situated under the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. Why? The transport industry and transport users call for coordination. The Coastal Station, the Road Directorate and the Railway Station are organised as stations. Avinor is a State limited liability company under the Ministry of Transport. The experience with Avinor as its own company is good, not least because Avinor has the freedom to borrow from investment projects. Why not give the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency the same opportunity? It seems strange that the government, which is so skeptical about air transport, is at the same time continuing an organisational model in which the aviation rate of the four modes of transport is, in fact, the highest degree of freedom. Does the Council of State see how other countries have organized themselves? Is it possible to look at how we can renew ourselves in this area? I repeat, the experience with Avinor as a company of its own is good. The government is still building the road piece by piece and split. The example is again taken from the Evening Post on 7 April 2011 on E6 through the Gudbrand valley, entitled ‘Animals, worse and more dangerous’. E6 through the Gudbrand valley was to be built in one stretch. But now it's expanding step by step. Gradual expansion results in variable speeds, variable road quality and a higher risk of road accidents. What steps does the government take to ensure overall expansion? What steps does the government take to extend the use of the scheme of total enterprise, total enterprise prices that can ensure faster planning and implementation of large projects? The major project is built – i.e. entire sections and long distances – can also be built cheaper. It gives more way to the money. In the form of keywords for some of the other areas: Operation of the road network: is operation separate from construction misguided? When will there be clear operational minimum requirements for the road network in Norway? As far as supervision is concerned, the government has chosen the cheap model — a supervision under its own umbrella. The justification was costs. Are consumers worth less than other road users? Laws and regulations: the state road system has a lot of power. Annual daily traffic controls dimensionalisation. There are 144 manuals, but too few regulations. What is done to clean up the power field? Finally, the questions will be: How does the Minister for Transport carry out work on the renewal of the transport sector? And what are the main measures for renewal with which the government is working?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1782	I am happy to report the following: We now have 20 pst. fewer serious road accidents than in 2005. We build twice as many kilometers of four-field road a year as the previous government. We can count 30 miles by non-convenient road. It corresponds to the route Oslo-Kristiansand. We see an increased collective section in the cities – the part of the people who use a private car goes down. On the railway, the punctuality goes up and the delay hours down. Many people use big words when it comes to transportation. The government is shopping. We see the result. The path has increased by 50 pst. from 2005 to this year. That's the same thing as an average increase of 1,7 billion. kr per year. The permissions of the Railway Agency are increased by nearly 70 pst. The investment lift in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019 is the main lever for the development of transport infrastructure in modern times. It's also added up to a significant increase in maintenance. In the 2010 budget, the government started to phase into the financial framework of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. With the 2011 draft budget, the escalation is continuing, and transport is to be an important area of government activity in the coming years as well. We need to develop an efficient transport system that adapts infrastructure to ever-increasing challenges and needs. Even with a time shift in your permissions, there is a lot of work going on. More large investment projects on the railway will be made later than foreseen in the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. The reasons for this have been changed, both as a result of the management of the Stortinget, the need for increased maintenance and a difficult resource situation in the railway sector. When it comes to roads, the government has prioritised operations and maintenance high. Based on today’s calculation models, the 2011 draft budget will put an end to the growth in the maturity of the national road network. Some major projects have slowed progress, and there are mainly lack of plan clarifications that are the reason for this. It may seem that the representative Sortevik believes that, in the work on the next NTP, we are not focusing on the renewal and efficiency of the transport sector. That's wrong. The guidelines for ETA and Avinor’s work on National Transport Plans 2014–2023 aim at achieving an efficient use of resources at the centre. We're busy getting consistent expansion of longer distances. Current transport plan has been used. It is also an important guide in the work on the next transport plan. Even if we can still get better, I think we're doing well. E6 in Eastfold was developed coherently. The development of E18 through Vestfold and E6 between Gardermoen and Colomoen is an example of the same – although the planning situation does not allow it to be done in a coherent way. On the Vestfoldbahnen it is built up to a coherent extension to double tracks on the route Holm-Holmestrand-Nykkirke. Not only will it be built more coherent than before, but also in a shorter time. For example, E6 Dal–Minnesund, with a cost estimate of well over 2.5 billion. kr, and construction time of two years. It's a progress that doesn't stand back for what we've seen in the OPS project. In the guidelines for the work on the next transport plan, we ask the etats and Avinor to take a closer look at the alternative organisation of the project implementation. An example is development contracts. In the orientation lines, we ask the etats and Avinor to identify possible projects that might be suitable for it. Collective transport will have a greater and more integrated place in the national transport plan’s main message. This also applies to what is planned by other actors. In NTP, we will carefully assess the challenges of public transport and point to cooperation solutions. In order to have a coherent and efficient transport system, the development of the national road and county road network must be seen in a context. We ask in the guidelines that there should be conditions that should be taken into account in the development of a whole range of interests, such as: bottlenecks and standard fractures. Etatane and Avinor have also been commissioned to carry out an analysis based on local initiatives relating to the airport structure. This will be part of the work of clarifying a forward-looking development of Avinor's Airports. In the analysis, the etatane and Avinor should, among others: look at planned investments in infrastructure and impacts on the overall transport supply in the area. The major challenges facing us on the rail side mean that I have asked a separate working group to discuss the further development of the Norwegian railway system. The group is composed of the most central actors in the railway sector. She will prepare a report on the challenges facing the Norwegian railway system and suggest how these can be managed. The report shall be completed on 1 November 2011, and will include, inter alia: be an important basis for the next NTP. It is also important that we have as good a basis as possible in the work on the forthcoming plan to assess how much resources we are going to spend on transport and what projects and actions we are going to spend on. It is important that the projects are well planned. We set out in the guidelines the requirements for how far the project will be in planning. We have asked for the etats – for the period 2014-2023 – to plan out from an annual planning framework of 4 billion. kr higher than the permits for 2011. We also ask that it be planned on the basis of alternative framework levels. Based on the schematic framework, we need to make arrangements to figure out what we can do if the frame is plus/minus 20 pst. and 45 pst. more than the design frame. Important publications are in progress on the construction of strategic infrastructure, such as: new technological platform for signalling installations on the network, the development of double tracks in the intercity triangle and the free E39. These are extensions that will require large resources. They will probably have to extend over more than one scheduled period. In the guidelines, we ask for good use of resources and realistic timetables for such strategic developments – in addition to the time and framework limits given for the planning process. In the new directions, we give a clear signal about the additional focus on infrastructure maintenance. Good maintenance is important for both appearance, safety and the environment. It is only when we get the plan proposal from the Eta and Avinor in February next year that we have the basis to determine how much we are going to use for transport purposes in the future. This will be proposed by the government in the spring of 2013. Working towards the next NTP, I'll see more about how we can get even more road and path without simultaneously creating pressure in the economy. Different economic environments and organisations have the ability to offer advice. I think it is particularly important to focus on the following questions: Price: Will a project be cheaper by letting private people stand for planning, construction and financing? Plan: Can we reduce the planning time and resource use by leaving a larger part of the planning to the contractor? Product: Are we getting a better product by having the contractor plan, project, build and maintain? Press: regardless of private or public funding, how should we achieve a flexible system that takes account of the situation in the civil engineering market and the economic situation in the country in the short and long term? It is important to me that the planning process does not constitute a barrier to implementing actions that are priorities of the national transport plan. It is a challenge for the etats because of the high level of activity in the transport plan. It is not only planning resources that must be available, but also sufficient capacity and competence. There's something that the etats are working on continuously. We have e.g. start work under the authority of the State Road Service to see how planning processes can be streamlined within the current legislation. We also feed ourselves from the Ministry of Transport in that work. Here it was also mentioned some suggestions or moments that I have to be allowed to come back to, for example. coordination and organisation of the transport sector. There is a brief answer: of course, we look at experiences from other countries both with organisation and funding towards the next NTP. I think we're doing well to develop the transport sector into a modern road and rail network. What will become an important issue is what should be given priority first — for example: transportation or tax havens? The government prioritizes the first. Let's hope that Blackvik will also come on that path.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1860	Thank you for the answer from the Council of State. With regard to the latter, it could actually be thought that there was a certain cancellation of finding new funding methods. That is not the problem we are facing. The Treasury is full of funds, but when we choose a solution how necessary the means to build the completely necessary road and the railways are going to compete each year in a 12-month perspective against a number of expenditures, we get a scarcity in which it really isn't necessary to get pushed into. It will be exciting to see if the Council of State is able to meet the promises of finding new financial instruments. What I referred to and referred to from a debate in 2010, with clear communications from the Minister of Finance, is, after all, waiting for the results of that work on a little scepticism. We believe that it is necessary to be renewed, significantly renewed, in the use of tools, in order to speed up road development and the pace of railway development. We need to use a new tool. In fact, we believe that it is important to have a discussion about just using such new tools before making the plan itself. Now we have heard the answer from the Council of State, which is essentially a description of a number of missions and a number of expectations and a number of possibilities – I should also say – related to the development of a new plan. We are concerned that tools are being clarified in good time before making the very detailed and comprehensive plan, and that we will get a clarification of it in advance. That's some of what we're asking for. We have a strong focus on a heavy and comprehensive planning process – perhaps too little focus on how to renew the tool. I still lack more clarity about the willingness to search and use a new tool than what is in the answer. We believe that the renewal of transport policy is important in order to speed up the pace, in order not to wait 30, 40 and 50 years for a new and secure road network. Unfortunately, we have examples of what the Council of State thinks is going on, not at all. Examples of problems are formally pending, the last of which is one of the issues that has just been brought to the Transport Committee. That's Prop. 104 S for 2011-2012, relating to the development of Rv. 2, where the assumption was that there should be an overall expansion, and where we are now told that it is not possible, that it has to be divided into two. So here, you're still struggling to transform the glory into the facts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1871	Of course, we can choose, like Sortevik, just to focus on what seemed problematic, and what is not done. I choose to focus on the opposite, i.e. on seeing and gladdening me that there are actually more means now than too short a time back, and therefore also greater possibilities to do something more. At the same time, it is important to identify: can we get even more way and path for the money by gaining experience and doing some sort of distribution so we can see that we are making the right choices for the future? Then actually the preparation of the next NTP is one way to go. This is where we have an own project that acquires experience from other countries with funding, which looks at the cost-benefit principle that we use today, which also in a mission asks Digi to look at the organisation of the transport sector both in Finland and Sweden, to see if there is anything to get there. Let me say about funding: All projects have to be paid, and what is quite clear is that for the projects that are now being phased into 2010–2013, it is clear that there is public funding on the railways, and on the way there is either public funding or a combination of tolls, local contributions and public funding. And then we have a process that I've done well in terms of funding towards the next NTP. Then there are some things here, rv. 80, a bridge that is built with four fields because it's going to be 80 years, and E6 through the Gudbrand valley, where we still have the goal of a coherent expansion, but which we have to take in stages, which makes us start now, and then we continue on the next. We have done well in our own debates and questions in Stortinget. But I mean there's every reason to rejoice that there's actually now a completely different offensive investment in transport than a few years ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1880	Maybe I should start with Jan Eggum's song 'On 'an again', because that's what's the reality when the Progress Party produces mass proposals. The proposals generally have the same thing in common that everything is wrong and that nothing works. This recurring sad story is presented both in the field of transport and in a number of other areas of society. It makes me think of the title of the debut book of Ari Behn, but it is hardly within the Parliamentaryly approved vocabulary to mention the title of the book. Fortunately, this is just a political game from the Progress Party, because reality looks pretty bright, although, of course, we're not hiding that there's a lot of need in the field of transport. But there's a reason to take a look at the realities: The state Road Service is trading for 14 billion dollars. kr more in 2010 than in 2006. We increased road maintenance from 2010 to 2011 by 60 pst. It helps, the due stops. Railway investments have tripled in four years. The railway budgets have increased by 70 pst. in our time of government. This shows that we have both the will and the ability to invest in the field of transport, but it does not help much for the Progress Party, which largely has a dissatisfaction focus, combined with a sometimes crude use of money and regular proposals for billions of out-of-budget appropriations. Of course, we're concerned with the most rational development possible, and it can definitely achieve in public terms, but it obviously requires financial resources, which we've shown the will to do up to now and through the escalation of NTP, which will give us 100 billion. kr extra for transportation over the next ten years. This will facilitate the rapid and coherent development of important projects. Infrastructure funds, debt financing and OPS are some of the ways of financing the Right and the Progress Party have launched. In the Workers' Party, we have the most faith in money, but will of course consider other sensible ways to organise and finance infrastructure. That is why we in the Labour Party recently adopted the following at our national meeting: ‘The working party will be able to carry out joint transport projects with project financing by its own development companies with State, county and municipal ownership.’ In addition, we will actively seek good solutions to reduce the planning period, which in many cases is too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1911	I think it's a little sweet to listen to Freddy de Ruiter's representative. He says that the Progress Party has other money that no one else has. We have exactly the same money as the Working Party and the Red-Green Government have – exactly the same money. Governments say that a lot of people use big words, but government acts. It should only be said that a government with full freedom of action, which has a political majority in this Chamber, should not be able to act. But the challenge is that in the real world, for ordinary people around this country, the situation is that the roads are getting worse, and the needs are growing far more than the extra funds are being allocated to meet them. I think the Road Traffic Information Council has said it very well. They say, can't you politicians soon stop talking about how much more money you've now spent on transportation than the previous government put in, and actually start thinking about how you're going to meet the needs? It's precisely the needs of the Progress Party that we're going to start meeting, because that's what most people experience in the real world. It's about stopping the maturity. The Council of State now said that this government is stopping the decline. It hasn't been that far. I don't think that will be the result further in 2011 unless you get more money. The oil price goes up. That means that the asphalt price goes up, and that probably means there's less asphaltization than it was added up to. I find it sad that the Council of State did not have a single concrete, proper proposal for renewal in this area. There's a lot of talk, and there'll be a lot when you're going to deal with this in 2013. But we do know which measures work. We know what other countries do. Why does the government not want to speed up the implementation of measures that both work and others have successfully tried out and that they have known to work well? You can, for example: do as in Sweden, where a government loan scheme has been set up to enable a reasonable amount of money to be lent from the State to build infrastructure and roads. Or you can do what you've allowed Avinor to do: they're allowed to borrow. Why should the State Road Service or the Railway Agency not be allowed to have the same opportunity? The crossroads that lies right up here was a construction site that the workers had left for a long, long time before there is activity there again. The reason there was no work there was because there was a lack of money to move on. There is no good way to drive, to leave heavy machinery inoperative. It's more important to get the machines going. The council says that we need to obtain capacity, and then there is obviously capacity when the machines are standing without being productive. The government's only new revolution is that a few road projects and a railway project have been allowed to have a post on the state budget, but it is not a post on the state budget that determines whether it is being built or not – it is about the political will and the desire to implement it. It doesn't just help to have an entry on the state budget. It's about the fact that there must be money there that allows you to run the continuous development of the projects you have. It's money, it's political will, and it's not least political action that determines what you can do on the road. The state council also said it's not just money it's on. Yes, it is if it is political will. There is a lot of vacant capacity in the rest of Europe, and companies are waiting to come to Norway and build infrastructure, but then we have to show that we actually have the will to think bigger and to make larger expansions. When the Council of State says that the elections are about tax havens, roads or infrastructure, it's just political rhetoric and flocculation. So that's how far this year you've gone in about. 6 B.C.E. kr more in oil revenue than foreseen in the State budget – 6 billion. kr every month is a lot of money to build infrastructure for. So it's actually about having a political will to build infrastructure, to think new, to look at what other countries do. Perhaps it should have been done as in Denmark, that when you adopt something in the field of transport, it actually applies for several years, so that NTP not only becomes a plan to be followed up in the annual budgets but is actually followed up over several years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1926	I initially want to thank the interpellant for this important interpellation. It is an important debate, and I do not agree with the Minister for Transport who refers this type of debate to being once every four years, so we are going to discuss the broad transport policy. It is important that these issues are put on the agenda. This is a very broad angle which the interpellant has also traveled in this interpellation. It is, of course, about the renewal of our entire transport sector. Then the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa falls into one of its answers to the temptation to bring the old thing about the fact that the choice is essentially whether you want infrastructure or tax relief. It must then be a paradox to this Council of States that this particular government benefits from one of the tax reductions that the previous government carried out, namely the removal of the investment tax. It actually amounts to $9 billion. DKr of the 23rd. kr in total as the government did in tax relief. This led to a tremendous inspiration and activity in the private sector, which created a new growth in the Norwegian economy, from which this government has benefited. I have also not registered any wish from this government to reintroduce the investment fee, but they are very good at criticising that we implemented it. There they probably learned a little from the famous proposal to introduce a business cycle fee into a government of Meltveit Kleppa that had previously been put in. That's right, as Meltveit Kleppa says, and I've said that many times from this pulpit, money usage is increasing – yes, that's right, and we've agreed to vote for each ear, and more. The question we have to ask ourselves is, what do we get for the money? So we're going to get less money than we've got before. In addition, we have another fundamental problem that I want to focus a little bit on, and that's that in the 1980s actually went 8 pst. of the State budget for transport measures. It's been an evenly falling curve ever since then, and now we're at 2-3 pst. I think this is fundamental relationships that we have to look at. The resources for transport investments are paradoxically managed by the activities they create, and not by the increased profitability they will have with better roads and railways. There is therefore a complete lack of coherence between how demand for better roads is created and how investment is decided. That is what we have said that we should strive for schemes that are more able to uncouple transport investment, so that they can compete with the private sector to a much greater extent. If we do that, in macroeconomic terms, there will be a relationship that belongs more to what we can call monetary policy, and not to what it is today, to fiscal policy. So there's a lot of grip we have to take. This means, among other things: more comprehensive planning, and that means major coherent projects in a corridor where synergies are exploited. It again demands that we release the premises, so that they get much more freedom to exploit not only what is involved in running the projects, but also their own resources. It requires a completely different funding model — called project finance, which the National Labour Party’s national meeting has now been approved, but also with private people. We are fascinated by the success of the OPS model. I can see that the Council of State is enjoying the situation, but the newspapers are showing the opposite, that there are many people who are not happy. I have to say in the end – I will not refer from the interpellant – that with regard to the question that the interpellant asked at the end, we have not had any attempt to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1941	The next speaker is Knut Arild Hareide. The President will take the opportunity to congratulate the representative on a new and important role.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1944	Thank you for that! I would like to send a great deal of thanks to the inter-pellant, which I thought was an extremely important and good debate, important also in view of the need to renew the sector. I feel that this is a theme that unites the Christian People's Party and the Advance Party. And not just that: I feel that there is an ideological distinction in this matter between a collective opposition and the position, where the opposition is willing to think again. We are willing to take with us international experiences on how we can improve this sector. There is also reason to ask the question: is it that the government party feels that everything is working well today, when we see that there is so little interest in looking at a real renewal? I think it's a paradox that the government is willing to be competitive when it comes to drug addicts and child-responsive children – it accepts an ideology – but says no to rail exposure. I found it difficult to explain ideologically. I also found it difficult to explain that we should be pleased that it takes an average of nine years to plan a road in this country. Does one then have a good and real efficiency in the sector? As Øyvind Halleraker wisely asked questions about this: Can we get enough out of the money? It's also a paradox that once we've settled the last annual budget, we haven't actually spent the money on the sector. Isn't that a good reason why we have to look at how we organize the sector? The Christian People's Party believes that we should look at a model where we organize etats more like state enterprises. This allows you to borrow, and it allows you to manage the build-up more in a more holistic way. I found the crown example of this an extension that several governments are responsible for, the extension from Lysaker to Sandvika, where it has taken eleven years to build a double track. The railway authorities themselves say that if they had built this for five years, we had saved social costs of between 1.6 and 1.7 billion. kr. I am pleased with the signals the Labour Party is now giving about project funding, because we are facing major challenges. A collective effort, which is absolutely necessary to get in place, I don't think we'll be happy with the organization we have today. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed that we get a settlement where it is assessed whether we should have a transport budget. We are forced to look at the investment in road, rail, air and sea in a context, also because we need to invest in public transport. Only within the region we're in now, Oslo and Akershus, we're going to have a formidable population growth over the next few years. Then the collective must be the main tool to solve the challenge we have. Then we have to look at the relationship between road and path in a better way than we do today. What I mean is one of the main challenges to NTP. I believe that if we could get a transport unit that had seen this, in line with what they do in Sweden, I think we would have better seen the whole thing. I agree with the interpellant's desire to get a renewal. It needs the floor. We've helped support every penny into this sector. At the same time, we think it's a challenge to get more for each of the heads we put in.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1962	The representative of Sortevik is mistaken when he claims that the renewal of the transport sector contributes to the creation of value in society. It is not innovation at all that contributes to it. It is the implementation, implementation of the transport projects, that contributes to the creation of value added, and it is the efficiency of the transport sector that contributes to increased value creation in society. On the contrary, the renewal of transport policy can contribute negatively to the creation of value in society, in particular if it is renewed after the prescription of the Progress Party. Take, for example: the proposal to release competition in Norwegian aviation. In fact, with free competition between airports and with full competition for passengers in the eastern region, there may be significant negative effects on Norwegian aviation development. This would include, inter alia: means that Gardermoen also had to have free access to compete in the same line with airports Rygge and Torp. Thus, the entire Avinor system would fall, and we would be faced with the choice of either laying down a number of smaller airports in District Norway or simply subsidizing them over the state budget. This type of renewal should never be considered by the Minister of Transport. This also applies to several of the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party. On the other hand, I am very pleased that the Minister for Transport has such an open position on the renewal of Norwegian transport, and that she is prepared to put this innovation in its proper context, namely in the debate on the national transport plan and the revision there. I think it is important that the organisation of relations is discussed and finds its natural place in this context. I think it is natural that the funding of the transport projects is discussed and finds its place in such a context. I think it is necessary that planning and planning systems find their place in such a context. And I'm glad that the Minister of Transport therefore has a prejudiced attitude to these issues, and that she does not, as the Bondevik government did in 2001, elect with an ideologically justified reorganization of large parts of the transport sector, without professional and economic justification. I think it is very important that these questions are thoroughly addressed, so that we can discuss them and decide on them. What happened in 2003 has had a significant impact in the past. We have had to live with the consequences of the decisions that were taken at the time, which were really irresistible. This is why the debate on project funding, the joint transport state and the planning system is very important, and it is important that it is presented and concluded when we next consider the national transport plan. I have never concealed that I have some special views on parts of this debate. I have been one of those who have fought for and wanted project funding for the projects on both road and rail. I have suggested that a production business should be restored, especially in the road network, and I have called for a common transport state. But it is a debate that I want to take part in and come back to until we renew and thus conclude these debates when we are going to deal with the National Transport Plan next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1977	The representative of Gullvåg is one of those who here in the hall clearly shows where the ideological dividing lines go – and that's fine. The background to raising the issue of renewal is that we have a massively unmet need in the transport sector, and we have national plans that are now being made for the fourth time, which show little innovation, but which, on the other hand, shows that it will take a long, long time before we are able to meet the major unmet needs of business and people most. To the Ruiter, I want to say that Jan Eggum is a good gentleman, but it's actually the government that's at 'an again with fourth time rolling after essentially the same pattern, with some input – to make some political fun – that you might have to look at some adjustments. But we know that most of the time it's with the sweets, and that the realities often get back on with the same old. I do not see that the main question has been answered in any way: What are the main measures for renewal that the government is working on in the areas of planning, financing, organisation, construction, operation, supervision and regulations? It was announced in advance, so it would have been an opportunity to touch those themes at least summarically. On the other hand, I am convinced that the government will not use part of the obviously useful tools that exist, and that is search and regret. The party of progress will, and I also record that both the Christian People's Party and the Right will. That's very promising. We will have shorter planning time, use of state regulation plan, own investment budgets, state infrastructure funds, at least the Progress Party will, government loans to the sectors, use of total enterprise prices, autonomous supervision – more autonomous than we have – minimum standards on roads, legal responsibility for the owner of the road, to take action. So, finally, a very specific question that the Minister for Transport still has the opportunity to answer — and that was raised in the main article. I repeat, the government has extended the interest compensation scheme to include loans to renovate the county roads. And so the question is, will the Council of State work to further expand this system? Interest compensation for loans is a well-known scheme that is used — first in education and school buildings, then moved into the administrative reform. Will it be further expanded so that both the State Road Administration and the Railway Agency can use such a system?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e1992	I would first like to thank you for an interesting debate. I see that there are some parties here in the hall who think that it's just to say switch, turn around, reorganize – with the consequences it will have to change the focus in relation to what I'm busy about, and that the government is busy with right now, simply to build more roads and paths and at the same time to work out and go through experiences from both international and Norwegian conditions to see if we can do things in a more efficient and better way, and thus get more roads and more paths for the money. To the last question about interest compensation, I would say that there is something we come back to in the annual budgets. Then I have to tell the committee's leader that I want him to be happy with new, great tasks as well as those he already has, but I have to remind you that the main reason Lysaker-Sandvika took so long, just lack of promises, lack of money to follow up and ensure coherent development. So now we're in a different situation than we were a few years ago – we're building more coherently. He didn't listen to my introduction, it also bore his message off, but I would recommend both the committee's leader and the representative Blackevik to read the answer to the interpellation once more. So I'm going to say, we've now got the core network output as a basis for the next NTP. There is a plan for a modern, efficient transport network in Norway over the next 20-30 years. My ambition is 20 years. Then it's quite clear that we need to build smarter, we need to have more efficient planning, but we need to primarily add more money. Then I look forward to the mission of Divi to gain experience from Finland and Sweden with a common transport rate. I look forward to the additional items that are included in the order, which relate to both organisation and funding. So I'm going to say, we have experience with three projects in our own posts. But we met ourselves in the door around the turn of the year with both E6 west of Alta and E16. So there were delays, which made it look like the money isn't being used. They're used, but after the turn of the year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2003	Then there's case no. 7 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2019	The report just referred to by the President is based on figures from the State Road Service National Road Database and shows that the quality of service on the public road network varies greatly. The report was widely reported in the Evening Post and several other newspapers. This gap in road quality is very serious for three crucial objectives of the Right and – hopefully – the Government's transport policy, and we get an answer to this in the course of the debate. This applies to: road safety promotion of regional development The study documents the quality differences on our main road network with regard to average speed, which are important for accessibility and efficiency, and it documents surprisingly large differences in accident rates, which obviously relate to traffic accidents and to traffic work. Allow me some examples from the report: the average speed of the highways varies from approx. 73 km/h in Hordaland, West Agder, Oslo and More and Romesdal to nearly 90 km/h in Westfold and Eastfold and over 80 km/h in Akershus, East Agder and Finnmark. In the national transport plan, we can read that it is a central goal for the government to reduce travel time between regions during the NTP period. And the measures that the government put in place in 2010, which we have now achieved, reduced the travel time on these roads by 7 minutes. The paradox is that the government has recently adopted measures to reduce the speed limits, in the interests of road safety, of approx. 450 km of highway, with the result that travel time increases by 40–50 minutes on the same roads. As regards road safety, the figures show that the national roads of Oslo and Akershus are safest and most dangerous on the national roads of Hedmark, Oppland, Nordland, Troms and parts of the national roads of Telemark. It is a central objective of public administration to offer citizens an equivalent service throughout the country, and citizens are entitled to the same service provision wherever they live. With regard to transport, which we are discussing today, the government and the Council of Transport States claim to be committed to providing an efficient, accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport system to promote the needs of society for transport and to promote regional development. From this point of view, it must be expected that road standards throughout the country are of similar quality in terms of accessibility and road safety. In general, it seems safest to travel on roads in counties of large cities. Here, the road network is more differentiated and more differentiated between local traffic and transit traffic, and between soft and hard road users. Typical districts that are sparsely populated, but which have relatively good road standards, such as Hedmark and Finnmark, come out poorly in terms of accident rates. In regions with poor road standards in the form of narrow, swinging and steep roads, which are typical of the part of the country from which I come, the risk of accidents is relatively better, but of course it is also related to traffic going a lot slower. A comprehensive transport policy must, in the Right's view, promote a quality of road that provides good accessibility and efficiency, and, of course, road safety. The figures show that the challenges are complex and varied and that there is a need for a stronger effort across the country. Therefore, the right considers that binding minimum standards on road quality need to be defined. The standard must reflect an acceptable level of safety and promotion on public roads. Obviously, then, it must be a public responsibility to ensure compliance with the requirements and the natural consequence is that it must be done through the establishment of an independent and freed-up supervisory body with a clear mandate and a clear authority. This calls for concrete measures to be defined in the event of deviations from minimum standards, including time-limits for rectification, in-use restrictions, such as: enter the driving column – or, in the worst case, the closure of the road. Failure to comply should allow penalties and penalties to be imposed. This is how we have set up society in very many other areas, including the transport sector, so why not in terms of road quality? After all, the state, at the State Road Service, imposes mandatory requirements on vehicles, and the police make demands on drivers, both of whom are subject to sanctions. So why the government hesitates to introduce the same regime to the responsible supervisor is a little incomprehensible. We know that the causes of accidents are fairly equally divided between these three causes: road standard, vehicle and driver behaviour. We got a report from a tragic accident in Alta from the State Disaster Commission on Transport, and it could be a good example in the context of the debate we have here today. The report showed that traces in the asphalt that are almost 5 cm deep are irresponsible. This tragic accident happened on fv. 13 in Alta, on a very tracky road with relatively high traffic, almost 5000 vehicles per day, and there was ice and snow in the tracks because they had not been broken. When the driver was about to swing, she did not get the rear wheels off the tracks and crept sideways into the vehicle. Three people died – tragically. The speed of the route was already reduced from 80 km/h to 50 km/h due to the track track. So what does the State Road Service say about this type of road quality? Well, the State Road Service itself classifies roads with track of 2.5 cm as very poor. The consequence of this should then be that the track depth should not exceed 2,5 cm, which is also supported by a report from the Transport Economic Institute, which states that incipient track and deep track of 2.5 cm give rise to an increased accident risk. I just mention this because I think it's a good example that track depth requirements are a necessary minimum standard for road maintenance. Road-trafficking works are another example of the relevant requirements. And of course, when building new roads, absolute climb and curve requirements should be imposed. Now it's like this is not something that the Right and the rest of the opposition are all about thinking. A number of organisations, with the Road Traffic Information Council at the head, require minimum standards on road quality and infrastructure and provide appropriations to meet these requirements. And they require, like us, independent supervision to ensure that the requirements are met. We therefore believe that the Roadmap should be revised. We still find it unacceptable to focus the search light on the responsibility of the driver, not least in the light of what we have had on Norwegian roads. Therefore, we believe that criteria need to be established for when driving on a road is not safe, so that we avoid accidents where the road standard itself is the trigger factor. Right thinks it's high time for a change in a system, as we have it today, that facilitates a growing gap between demands on the road and actually the standard.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2076	The report by the representative Halleraker refers to was prepared by Rambøll of the Road Traffic Information Council. I would like to make it clear that there is varying quality of the data set from the National Road Database on which the report is based. In addition, registrations for parts of the road network are missing. Because of the lack of security in the data set, I cannot do well for all the indicators presented. There is a great lack of Norwegian roads today. The government spends a lot more money than before, and the roads get better. Both operation and maintenance of the road network are of great importance to the road accident level. The operation of the road network shall provide road users with safe and reliable access throughout the year, maintenance shall contribute to ensuring good road safety, good traffic performance, good accessibility and good environment. Priority will be given to measures providing road safety. There has been a strong increase in the resources for operating and maintaining this government. We have always placed greater emphasis on the length of the road network we have. Permits for maintenance in 2011 represent a strong increase in the level of activity, in fact 60 pst. 580 million. kr. That's what keeps us going, based on today's calculation models. This represents a fraction of a long-term trend. Under the direction of the Directorate of Roads, work has been started on monitoring maintenance and follow-up on the national road network and tunnels and bridges on the county road network. The problems associated with methodology are equally relevant irrespective of who is the owner. The results of the work will be discussed in the next national transport plan. That being said, a stately comparison, as mentioned in the interpellation, shows differences in accident risk. This comes, for example: the fact that the proportion of traffic work carried out on a non-conference basis — i.e. intermediate works — is different from the counties to the counties. It's quite clear that midwayers are saving lives. This year it will be built 25 new km. During the period 2010–2013, the aim is to complete 93 km with mid-driving works. In addition, it is planned to complete 23 km of four-field road with physically distinct runways in 2011 and 54 km between 2010 and 2013. In addition, we plan to complete 53 km of highway with a mid-record in 2011 and 183 km in the entire period. There have been questions about the requirements that are currently being imposed on midwives, and I have asked the Directorate of Road to look at the limit that is 8 000 ADT today, about greater flexibility in relation to her, both in the construction of new roads and on existing roads. There's an assessment to be made during the spring, and we're going to come back to it. However, as more and more investments are made in the road network, and the aftermath will be repeated, the regional differences will be cushioned. State efforts in the field of road safety have escalated in recent years. We have explained that in various things in this room now in the later period. Let me stress today that detailed implementation plans have been developed for the first four years of the NTP period, that is for the years 2010–2013. The State Road Agency’s 2010–2013 action programme includes, inter alia: project lists showing the location on the national road network of road safety investments to be carried out during the four-year period. The corresponding county road priorities have been identified in county action programmes for the county road network. Then there is a separate plan of 152 measures that will be followed up year after year. The use of resources for road safety measures should be inserted where the highest gain per invested krona is expected. Overall, the measures planned for the period 2010–2013 will help to mitigate the differences in accident risk. Nevertheless, we must realise that in the foreseeable future we will have to live with a situation where the individual risk of being killed or seriously injured per km run may be greater on a low-traffic road than on a high-traffic road with a mid-traffic rail. This is an important reminder that we cannot invariably build ourselves into a vision of zero killed and severely damaged traffic. There are several reasons why road accidents occur. Therefore, an effort needs to be made in several areas to reduce the number of fatalities and injuries. Last year Sweden was the world’s country with fewer people killed in traffic per 100,000 inhabitants. We have followed up on Sweden's example. They have triple controls in the last ten years, they have lowered the speed limit of more than 15 000 km of non-meeting roads. We follow Sweden's example and have reduced the speed limit on nearly 500 km of road that is not non-responsive. We're assuming that this could mean between 10 and 15 fewer people killed or seriously injured every year. Then TØI has other calculations in relation to speed limits. That's what makes me not able to recommend, as the Halleraker representative, that we ignore such numbers. We have to reduce the speed limits where we can achieve results in terms of road safety. That's what makes us, for example. have given green light for route automatic traffic control on 40 new routes, even if it may mean a minute or five for an additional journey time. From the Annual Report 2010 National Road Safety Action Plan 2010–2013, we can now read that the average speed is 85 pst. all vehicles have been reduced to the speed limit. We know that it will in the long run save lives and help to smooth the difference in the risk of accidents between states. When it comes to working on the next national transport plan, everyone has come to realize that we are doing well, and put in place a long-term strategy for the development of an efficient transport network. It's also in the context that we've now got a root network statement that shows what possibilities can be here, if we put in the right grips. Let me also spend some time on the county road network. The Halleraker example spelled a country road. Following the administrative reform, county councils have gained a much more important role as owners. They'll take it. With regard to road safety, most of the counties have their own national road safety selections and, in this context, their own road safety plans are also developed for each county. The county councils were transferred correspondingly to the roads they took over. Then they got funds otherwise – which I can come back to, if necessary. But let me stress that the Stortinget has stressed the value of a good standard on the new county road network, an acceptable level of road investment and a good road safety policy in all counties. It is still a state responsibility to enable the county councils to build, operate and maintain an effective and secure name. Here the government follows up year by year. Then I have to be allowed to say that it is not that today there are no road normals, that today there are no requirements for standard. It's also not that a person doesn't feel like this standard is being held. On the contrary, it is very important now to put that supervision in place, as well as the other tools that we already have in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2104	To the last state council said, of course, it's road normal. Everyone who works in the transport sector knows that, so I think that in some way has nothing to do with this debate. We know that. The roads are getting better, says the Council of State. Yes, that's not what we're getting from the many reports we're getting, nor does the media currently have a special impact on it. But what the Council of State is probably aiming for is that the government has set a target in the budget for the current year for us to stop the decline. That's probably what she's looking for. Despite this state council's repeated boasts of its own and the government's efforts, and the lack of other parties, it turns out that road users have a negative impression of our national and European roads. No other public service sector encounters such massive dissatisfaction from its inhabitants, showing a survey last year on behalf of the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. Traffic is actually one of the areas where people are least satisfied. And after what the respondents are concerned about, this weighs at least positively. 48 pst. have a negative impression of the national and European roads. Other road categories also cut very low. I think perhaps the Council of State should look at this a little bit and see that it's not certain that just boast helps, that the will to reform, to action and to visible results does not impress, and that most people read this reality picture. I don't know what it's like with the Minister of Transport, but most of the others, I think, would take this in and try to correct the situation, when you get so bad research into what people think about what you're doing. But that's exactly where this government fails. Not only does it fail on its own in this area, but time and again it also rejects well-intentioned proposals for opposition solutions that could improve conditions. When this then meets – I'll almost say – with an arrogance, and often an extremely incomplete story, to the boring, it goes as it must be: one is looked through. I think it's a shame.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2115	I am mild in relation to the situation that we see today on many Norwegian roads. I never failed to say that there are too many bad roads in this country. There's a lot of fun here. There's a lot of need in the future. However, I must be allowed to rejoice with the many people who have, in fact, been given a better path for the past few years, have got a new path, and over the projects that are going on in the future. I must be allowed to say that I am a little surprised by the very representative Øyvind Halleraker, who has been on the Transport Committee, who has been on the Storting for several periods and who cannot have such a selective memory that he does not think about times when things happened less in this field. It must be lawful, in all modesty, to remember it. He even went back a decade in an article earlier today. I'm not going to do that, but I'm going to have to say, take Oslo for simplicity because this is where we are. So extensive road work is going up by the Gardermo to get a more coherent E6. Both at E18 and E6 in Eastfold, important work has been done. The same thing happens along the south of the E18 until he changes his name to E39, where we can also continue with repairs. So we've agreed on important projects as liabilities even to RV. 7 to Bergen. Could the representative Halleraker not have gone past all the house? It must actually be allowed to rejoice over what is happening. So we never have to forget to take over that here is a very room for improvement. That's what we're doing. Following the administration reform, county municipalities spend more money on the county road network than before. I'm not going to be annoyed to mention what has now been commissioned in Guideline 2 against a new national transport plan, but just saying: we now have a formidable job of phased into all the projects in today's plan, and we're planning for new ones, because we're going to have a modern and efficient transport network.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2126	There is an interesting issue raised by Øyvind Halleraker in its interaction, in particular the issue of the link between road standards and road accidents and regional differences. But the answer to the problem isn't as simple as it might look at first sight. I think that the Minister of Transport made an excellent account of the red-green parties' efforts on the roads through the national transport plan, both the large increase in investment and operations and our commitment to road safety measures. It's like the Minister of Transport says, there's a lot that's been undone. But we're on the right track, and we have a lot to take back from past neglect, which many in this room are responsible for. It is gratifying to record in today's VG that former transport ministers from other parties admit that there has been too little focus on maintenance of the road network. The problem of balancing the differences and the accident risk between the counties to ensure a level playing field in all counties is, of course, a discussion on its own. Is there a link between different road standards in the counties and accident situations? Figures from Safe Traffic in January show large differences between states in accident risk, i.e. the number of deaths in relation to the population. Hedmark and Nord-Trøndelag are on top of that, while Akershus and Oslo are on the bottom. The question will be: does this road standard reflect or is there any other explanation? According to traffic researcher Dagfinn Moe at SINTEF, much of the explanation of the fatal accidents in counties such as Nord-Trøndelag and Hedmark is the type of road and traffic. There's a lot of transit traffic, there's a lot of speed, and there's more traffic work in these counties than the population would expect, because you have high average traffic. This leads to more accidents than the population would expect. According to Dagfinn Moe, new roads and pitfalls are not enough to prevent accidents. He's talking about mental handrails, which are at least as important. People's own attitude to traffic skills counts at least as much as physical handrails. So that's the old recipe: if we keep the speed limits, if we run off, we use the seat belt, yeah, then we reduce the number of people killed in traffic by 50 pst. overnight. Sweden was used as an example of a more traffic-resistant country than Norway, and our road standard is used as an explanation. The March Transport magazine reads an interesting article by Torkel Bjørnskau, research director at TØI, about why Sweden is better at road safety. He points to three relationships. The development of non-conference roads is, of course, one of them, but the other two are equally important. The second concerns improving road safety for vulnerable road users. Sweden has had a sharp decrease in the number of pedestrians and cyclists killed in traffic. They have had a stronger reduction than Norway because they have made a strong commitment to road safety measures aimed at separating soft road users from other traffic. A third factor is that economic activity and traffic growth are linked. In fact, a better economy in Norway than in Sweden is part of the explanation, because the total traffic volume is affected by the economic cycle. There has been lower growth in car traffic in Sweden than in Norway since 1990. From 1990 to 2009, they had 25 pst. growth in car traffic in Sweden, while in Norway we had 50 pst. growth. Young people are particularly affected by economic recessions. Norwegian youth runs more than Swedish youth and is therefore more represented in death statistics than they are. If we compare the number of fatalities in traffic with the number of inhabitants, we see that the accident risk is much higher in Norway than in Sweden for young people up to 24 years of age. For those over 24 years of age, the accident risk is roughly the same in Norway and Sweden if we see it in relation to the number of inhabitants. If we compare the number of killed car drivers with the mileage and age of driving, we see that the figures for Norway and Sweden are, in fact, about the same. In other words, if a user uses the number of kilometres travelled in Norway and Sweden as the basis for calculating accident risk, the accident risk in Norway and Sweden is roughly the same. Today's Trønder-Avisa focuses on the 99 people who died on North-Tronder roads from 2001–2010. It's 99 individual ships, 99 families, and it's strong stories. Our challenge is that there is no quick fix. The sum of building these roads, the sum of road safety measures on the road network and the sum of what we have between our ears as drivers is what makes us reduce traffic accidents in Norway. There is no direct and obvious link between road standards and road accidents – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2145	We have seen that one of the main steps of this government to respond to extensive poor road networks is to slow down. It's too simple. I will give tribute to the representative Halleraker to address an important question, which is not answered at all. So I'm going to put it again: what will the government do to balance the big differences and the accident risk between the states in such a way that you ensure equally safe and effective roads in all the counties? Nor in the road sector shall it be such that the quality of the road, and therefore the safety of the road, depends on the country in which you live. It is not only the report of OFV and Rambøll, but also the report of advisory engineers – their health check on national infrastructure – that points to poor standards on the road network. Advisory engineers measured it in 2009. They also measured it in 2010, and it's still bad on the road. I also remember the people's road requirements, which came in 2009. It's still long and longer than you reach those goals. One of them was that the roads should be well maintained, that the roads should be maintained continuously and repaired when they are not in accordance with established standards. This with minimum requirements and complete independent supervision has been affected in the previous interpellation. It's particularly bad on the county roads. It's the State Road Service itself that measures. They measured roads with poor or very bad cover in 2010. In the West has 60 pst. of the county roads this poor standard, in North Norway 58 p.s., South Sweden 52 p.s., East Germany 52 p.s. and Mid-Norway 44 pst. The total is 53 pst. In 2010 more than half of the county road network has poor or very poor coverage. The answer and comment from the Minister of Transport on these figures, which is published in the Official Journal of Bergen on 13 February of this year, is that she admits that the figures will rest on the spot next year, i.e. in 2011. The counties need help. The counties must have help from the state, which has got rid of it very badly. The counties need help other than to get new loans. It's the state that has the money. The Government granted a package of measures in 2009. The situation on the road network throughout Norway is simply out of control. Failure to maintain maintenance for many years will lead to incalculable costs. A package of measures is needed for road maintenance, additional State funds earmarked for additional efforts to maintain the county roads. The Progress Party has recently made proposals for an immediate commitment to maintenance measures of 4 billion. kr, divided between highways and highways. Document 8:133 S is now under consideration in the Transport Committee, and I invite parties concerned about the situation on the county road network to support this proposal by the Progress Party on extra funds for both national and county roads. Unfortunately, today's roads are in poor condition in many places. Despite the repetitions of the government and the Minister of Transport that there has never been any more effort on the roads, the roads have in many places become worse with red-green road policies. So the main answer was given at the interpellation here instead: on 'an again. There was a new round of 'an again from the Minister of Transport that more money has been allocated, and that it gets better. The measurements indicate that it will be completely different. The comments that sometimes come from the Minister of Transport to the realities that the drivers experience in the country are that the ambition is not to get worse in 2011. The State should be responsible for an efficient, accessible and secure transport system throughout the country, in the opinion of the Progress Party. These inequalities that we see documented on the road network in all states should be addressed immediately. The Minister of Transport still has an opportunity to tell us how she will get rid of these inequalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2160	Interpellanten, Halleraker, addresses a very important issue today, which concerns road standards in Norway. He has a statement that the quality must reduce the risk of accidents in all states, and that must be equal. We all agree that any road accident is a tragedy and that the risk should be reduced. So the question is how are we going to do it? We know that some of that is due to the road standard. We know that something is caused by the driver. We know that something is caused by the lead. There are a number of factors. But that's not just the road standard we can do anything with. I am pleased that the Council of State has addressed this with driving training for young people today, and is strongly focused on it. I have great faith in that too. But it's not going to get past that when the road standard is bad, in many cases it leads to accidents. We all have a zero vision, and we have to hope that we can get closer. We have a standard on the roads in Norway, but we know it's not followed up. If it is not followed up, it is because there has not been any funds for it, in the way we have used funds in the transport sector. In its reply, the Council of State points out that, among other things: built mid-range – 25 km in 2011. Yes, the middle parts are very good. I have to admit that a few years ago I didn't have a sense of midwayers, but it's allowed to turn around, as it's called. I've changed my mind about it; I'm strong because midwayers are one of the most important things to avoid traffic accidents. So the Council of State answers at a reduced rate, which I have a much less sense of. The statistics that show this, in my opinion, are not entirely based on reality in one sense or another. Because it's not always your own speed that matters during an accident, but it's the mass that comes against you, that constitutes a lot. So the council says the roads are getting better. Yes, and no. I had the pleasure of driving from Oslo to Larvik and back in Easter, and it was a joy, I shall agree. There the roads have improved considerably. But a month and a half earlier, I had the dubious pleasure of driving from Steinkjer to Vikna, across the highlands, where every day it passes on average 17 trailers with fishloads. And with the narrow roads, with the swings and with the telehipping, it must be a challenge of dimensions for the one who transports the fish on this distance! So some roads are getting better, but there's a lot of people getting worse, because we haven't taken into account the traffic growth that's been over all those years, and there I think we can include many years. The aftermath is probably not repeated during this year either, I have no faith in it, because the aftermath is so enormous, both on highways and on county roads, which it has become today. So what can we do with this? I understand that the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa expresses frustration sometimes when you have to answer for the bad roads and the bad railways in Norway. For approx. Ten years ago, we introduced the rule of action. At the same time, it was said that the funds, the four percent, will be used for infrastructure in Norway and for research and education. We can go and see how much percent is used for infrastructure. It's very small. We've had a wealth increase, yes, on the social side in Norway, which is huge in relation to the rest of Europe and the world, but we've neglected the infrastructure. And I don't think we're getting out of this until the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa is significantly better off in negotiations with the Ministry of Finance to get more funding for infrastructure. So it really remains to be hoped that in the revised budget – where negotiations are probably over now – the Council of State has succeeded in getting far more to our road projects in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2177	The last speaker, Myraune, took up an interesting problem from my point of view, that there has been a very great awakening in Norway, and that is quite right. But then the question is, should one use the money for tax relief, as Right does, or should one rather use the money for road maintenance, as the government suggests, so that we actually set limits on the increase in wealth for some rich people to use the money for sensible things? Myraune is likely to have problems in a private party if, like the pragmatic Right-Police politician he is, he should be involved in getting more attention on road maintenance. The problem being raised is probably relevant, but I think it's a little bit like the Right now is out to compete with the Progress Party about being the most busy on the road. I think it's a competition they're forced to lose. For it is simply that no matter what purpose a take up, whether it is road, traffic, education, health care, social security or whatever, the Progress Party has a couple of billions on its tail for any purpose. And the Right has a responsible policy and can't have it. Then you can't compete with the economy, so you have to do as a responsible government does, to figure out how to prioritize. And that's what this is all about. That's why this government has turned a lot on maintenance. In fact, we have an increase of 50 pst. in relation to when Halleraker and Sortevik and Hoksrud ran the country through the budgets. So in one of three budgets, the Progress Party was able to add up to a total of 1 million. kr for maintenance! After all, there is a great performance in relation to the debate here today. Because it's pretty straightforward that there's going to be a bet on the road. What basically made me take the word was Halleraker's road normal, or his thinking about the minimum standard. I pictured Halleraker, and some people would like to add a few thousand to travel around the country and paint two centimeters of track depth on the road network in Norway – yes, there is a problem here. Then you measure it all around, and then the problem is still there. Should it not be that instead of spending the money on measuring operators, we used it on someone who actually asphalted, someone who was in his county, who had a car and could be contacted – a road guard function – and who told us that now there is a problem with the road in this area, you have to come and fix it. It is actually possible to create such a system. But that's not what the right-hand side wants, because the right-hand side is ideologically blind to supply and competition. There must be supply and competition on everything, and therefore such practical, pragmatic solutions that actually work are uninteresting. Then a rather one should have a measuring corps, instead of an asphalt corps. With regard to the Right's policy, there are now some interesting signals that are of importance, namely that one wants to focus more on collective – not much more than the government, I think it was about. Three billion. kr more in relation to the so-called collective lift. Now the Right shall have a national meeting. Now, maybe you should bet even more collectively, so that you get rid of the wear and tear that this leads to, and so you can reduce the cost of, among other things. road maintenance through people driving trains, urban railways and buses. It'll be cheap, it'll save money. Finally, back to the ideology of supervision/asphalting. What is one of the problems for the Progress Party and the Right and the bourgeois parties is what they did in 2003. They privatized this, it was supposed to be offer. What happened to the price? He climbed up to 100 pst. The reason why there's actually little road maintenance, sitting here in the hall and calling it Right, Progress Party, Left and Christian People's Party. They have praised us out of the market, so that road maintenance has become 100 pst. more expensive. Then there is no solution that there was little road maintenance, despite 50 pst. extra permissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2195	There is no doubt that the cause of accidents is complex. As many people have experienced, it can be roughly divided into three different contexts: road standard, vehicle standard and driving behaviour. As far as standard is concerned, there is no doubt that road quality is going up all over the country. That's necessary, that's right, that's necessary. Therefore, it is maintained and built throughout the country. Governments have on various occasions shown different roots and pathways where projects are under way, to be launched or are under way in the final phase of the NTP programme. It is a large-scale programme, and it takes time for implementation. We know that it's also a little bit about the construction industry and planning capacity out there. We also need to maintain the county road network. The county councils have taken the glove, as part of this hall was quite critical or sceptical that they were going to do. But the county councils build roads like never before, and some have really taken an extra jafs to get more of what was needed out. We could say that they're doing the problems in an excellent way. I think it is absolutely right to use the funds for basic work, asphalt and other maintenance instead of more bureaucracy. We see from the operating contracts that are out there, that there is an increasing bureaucracy in relation to both the order for maintenance tasks and the control of their performance. One should have had gross price increases just on that kind of work. I think it's much better to do practical work and get it done quickly. Therefore, on behalf of the Center Party, I would like to discuss models that can ensure that you have done just that. In the case of a vehicle, we saw when the committee visited SINTEF a year ago, that there are a lot of things that can be done with the car park to make it safer. It's actually maybe more our imagination that limits what kind of security measures we want to introduce, and then there's some privacy considerations at the other end of it -- how far you want to go in terms of picking out individual cars relative to security. I do not think anyone here is in doubt that the introduction of the safety belt has had an impact on the safety of those sitting in the car. I have personally experienced the importance of the safety belt to save lives. There is no doubt that it has meant a lot. The same could have been said about the car seat for children in the car, which we have a good basis for seeing means a lot. And then it's the driving behavior. We cannot and we should not deprive the driver of responsibility for behaviour in traffic. I drive a lot, I live so that I have to drive a lot, and I look with horror at part of the behavior in traffic. Speed limits are not what you primarily respect. You take unwise pass-bys that also put others in jeopardy. Midpoints are good, and we're going to build that. But it is not necessary on all roads, nor is it the measure that will ensure that accidents do not occur. We have a lot of outbounds where it carries out of the way despite the fact that there are security measures, but because the speed and unfortunate circumstances may make you just run off the road. Driving training means that I am very important. We need to ensure good training so that those drivers who are going on the road actually take the responsibility of driving a car and having passengers in many cases. The speed limit must also be checked by different measures outlined both in road safety plans and in different other contexts. If you can bring down the accidents on the tracks by slowing down, then I'd like to do it instead of someone losing their lives. I know that on the E6 through Helgeland there has been a great decline in fatal accidents when you have slowed down from 80 to 70 km/h. That's right, even if it takes a little longer to drive from Trofors to the lake to get to the mall. Finally, attitude-creating work is important. We have to think about what we have between our ears in terms of both speed, belt and rush. Only in this way can we make sure that we are safe on the roads. There is not one measure, but a set of measures that need to be taken to ensure that we drive safely on the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2223	First, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising this important debate. Road and road standards have also been high on the agenda in a number of national newspapers and magazines recently, so this is in place. The left believes and has always believed that road safety is one of the most important – perhaps the most important – we can use time and energy in the transport sector. There are many important factors here: visible police, racial security, car density, which was the topic yesterday when we discussed the intercity triangle, and of course what the interpellant is discussing on road standards, which we are debating here now. We know that we are facing a significant aftermath on the way. We have heard that more people have been involved. However, a theme that has not been raised today in this matter is the new roads that will soon be destroyed by, among other things. telehiv. Many of the paths that this applies are in the state that I represent, namely Akershus. This has therefore also been a major issue in local media. In the evening post on March 26, we can read about rv. 2 Klöfta–Nybakk, about E18 in the direction of Stockholm, about E6 on the route Gardermoen–Minnesund and now entirely in the last E16 Wøyen–Bjørum, which was opened in 2009 at a price of 1.35 billion. kr. This very important shipping year is now closed for repair after a short time. So this is an interpolation that's completely in place. It has been claimed by some researchers that extensive road-salting could have contributed to increasing the damage. In the winter of 2009/2010, 210,000 tonnes of salt were used on Norwegian roads, according to the State Road Administration. This is almost a triple since the 1990s. Probably there has never been as much salt on Norwegian roads as in winter. So I would like to challenge the Minister of Transport whether she believes that this could be one of the causes of the poor road standard we have, both on new and old roads. Otherwise, of course, there is a frightening reading in today's Evening Post that large parts of the road network were not dimensioned to withstand high axle loads in the spring solution. This was known by the State Road Service, and additional maintenance was to be carried out – which was not carried out. The size must be able to rely on the floor to carry out the work it is set to do. What the Minister of Transport knew about is hard to know about for us. When there are transport debates here in Stortinget, the debate has a solid pattern. The opposition makes creative suggestions on how to make things smarter in the transport sector. Of course, everything is rejected and, at best – we are happy – the Minutes will be attached. Then the government boasts about the use of money and how much more money they spend on transportation than the Bondevik governments, especially the last. They overfill the NTP – we hear that every time. But when we see how the community's money is spent, that there are billions going to repair new roads, then it's no wonder that road users and taxpayers react. Then it must be a little awkward to brag about the use of money, as it is also done in the hall today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2241	With regard to debates we have in this Chamber on road safety, at least I do not share the last speaker's view that there is a lot of creativity in the opposition. It's going in the same pattern. Now this is an interpolation of road standard. But the interpellant was concerned with road standards, accidents and road safety in a context. I don't think any of us would say that all the roads today have a good enough standard. There is no doubt that we have major challenges. Many roads need to get better. Several middle parts have to be built, more asphalt has to be added – 95 miles by road got new asphalt last year. We follow up this year. Miles by mile will get a new and better standard. The county roads are the main points of the interpellation. Now it is the way the county roads got an extra billion when the money was transferred. Then you're concerned that there's no money coming. Then there's a call for money from local teams. For example, what happens? in Akershus, where the Right, the Party of Advancement, the Christian Party, and the Left? 60 million. NOK of the money they received when they got transferred the roads, they were not used on the road, they were put in trust, and there were roads in Akershus that could have benefited from that money. In the Workers' Party we realize that the causes are complex, but I do not think it is right to say that road standards are often the only cause of a traffic accident. In these debates, I wonder if the opposition chooses to jump over what is involved in driving behaviour. The State Road Service has carried out an in-depth analysis of all fatal accidents from 2005 to 2009. 54 pst. the accidents were due to a lack of driving ability. So when the Labour Party is talking about that we must also take that debate, it is not based on anything. It's also about statistics, research and what we know. Last week I had the pleasure of being at a conference at Ås high school, as students there arranged, and that was about youth and accidents. It was quite liberating to be part of a debate that the youth himself had in mind, and that was largely about how to improve the attitudes towards driving a car for young drivers. Very few people were concerned with road standards. The most important thing, they thought, was to change the attitudes of young drivers and thus to improve road safety. We would like to take the debate on more appropriations for better roads, for new asphalt, for more middles, but I could also wish that the opposition would be involved in the debate on the other causes of traffic accidents. 54 pst. is due to lack of driving ability — that is, the majority of accidents.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2256	First, I want to say that there is a very important interpellant that the interpellant has addressed, and an important question. But when I listened to the representative Langeland, it reminded me of the old communist system – if only the state controls the store, everything gets so much better. I think you have enough examples in society that show that private has actually contributed to far more than a communist regime. As far as I know, one of the companies has 100 pst. owned by the State, Mosta, was one of the companies that have taken out much of the money that Langeland was occupied by has been cost-effective in terms of maintenance on the road network. To the representative Gorm Kjernli I would like to say: He says that miles after mile has got a new asphalt. The challenge is that miles by mile have suffered poorer asphalt and poorer maintained roads, and the fear is that there will probably be as much worse roads as there will be better roads when 2011 is over. With the high oil prices, which also directly affect asphalt on the roads, the fear is that there may be more poor roads than better roads. I sometimes feel that when you start discussing road standards, the government parties try to make the arguments for all the other measures. Yes, I agree, and I'm tired of hearing that someone else is kind of not concerned that people are going to use a seat belt, or that they are going to drive at speed limits, or that they are going to run without sleep. Everyone agrees, including those parties that want to actually look at some of the other instruments, that is, what goes on the road standard, which is a major cause of the accidents. I record that red-green politicians in this room will not be aware that the roads are a major cause of many of the accidents. Then I think it is good to refer to Sweden, where we have documented that the road is contributing cause of over 70 pst. of the accidents. I don't think there's anything better in Norway than in Sweden, at least not when you look at the road standard in Norway versus Sweden. So I want to say that right now there's a report from the State Road Service on the Nestunnel, which is part of the highway network, or what you call the main road network, where you have to repair the tunnel because the concrete is coming down from the roof. 8–10 months are needed only to implement immediate action, or 15–18 months for longer-term action. So you could be a little bit fluffy and say that in Japan the six days were spent rebuilding a four-field highway, or in Sweden a couple of months were spent cleaning up when a four-field highway crashed. So it might be that you might soon have to get up and start asking some questions about how we run in this country. I'm glad the Council of State says it's a lot done. But the Council of State is pleased with those who are satisfied. It's nice, but I feel that it's probably the great minority who experience the great joy that the Council of State does. It is at least my experience when I travel all over the country, and not least in my own home country. To put it into perspective, I think it is interesting when the representative Halleraker addresses this with road standards. On rv. 36 who goes from Porsground to Seljord, there is one accident every week with personal injury. This is one of the distances that there is no special means to do anything about the next ten years. Similarly, you can look at E18, where you get a cost estimate, which means that the projects may be exposed. And since the Council of State is going up here now, I can imagine asking: Will the Council of State make sure that not only 400 state million in the last six years of the plan will be in place to do something about E18 through Bamble – where, unfortunately, it was a fatal accident last weekend – but that it will be in place between 2.5 and 3 billion. kr that you need to get that way in place? It doesn't help boasting that you've spent more money, you actually have to do something about the challenges and the projects that are there. It's interesting to know what the council will do with it. When I challenged the Council of State as to whether we could have a better system that would allow us, when the State is responsible for the accident with a car, to have a system that made it easier to get compensation, the Council of State writes in its reply to me: ‘If a system is introduced in which road users are more likely to obtain more compensation, this could lead to some road users slacking down on the care requirement and increasing the speed of the journey.’ There is an attitude towards the drivers that I do not agree with the Council of State, and that I find it sad that the Council of State has, when she is concerned about everything else except that also the drivers... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2280	I would like to thank you for the debate, and start with a quote from that newspaper headline in the evening post, as it is true with State Secretary Bartnes, who says, "Norweg is too bad, and we have a great job to do." I think that kind of self-recognition might have been on. However, the council asks me here in this room whether I have not discovered that roads are being built in this country, and she then mentions Oslo development, E18 and E6 and more. Well then, the Council of State, I have discovered it, and I have also discovered that the same roads are largely financed by road users. That's why I also think you might have to be a little bit more humble about boasting about it. To Langeland I would say, firstly, he may not have heard my post. But I have to get a little serious and say that I actually think it's a bit on the verge of having to tell you that you want to have safety requirements on measures that actually lead to fatal accidents and that have done so. I don't think so. When it comes to collective policy – to Langeland again – I have to say that in this city, which has been a part of governing almost continuously since the 1950s, there is probably not much to say about the collective share. It's 80 pst. in rush traffic. So collective politics we've been away in the past, Langeland. So the interpellation we've been debating today was based on a study on differences in road standards. As others have said, we have not received an answer to what the council intends to do with these differences, but again we have heard that she does not want help from us in the opposition with good ideas. Then we have a debate about the state of the county roads and the excellence there. I've read the strategy paper from the government about the next NTP, and here it's actually right that the interest compensation scheme should be continued, but at the same level, that's 2 billion. kr per year, but not restated over the 10-year period. This means that there will be significantly less money for the interest compensation scheme at the end of the 10-year period – for those who should not have discovered it. I think that the Council of State might go a little further back in time when she's going to see how things have been done, and learn from Magnus Lagbøte's law, who said that there would be inevitable demands for road progress. Compliance with the requirements was also monitored twice a year, with penalties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2297	Salting was mentioned here, in question form. Let me say that there is an own project under the authority of the State Road Administration, Salt SMART, which will soon be presented, and which tells something about both the consequences and the possibilities of salting more smartly. I agree with Borghild's tendency that excessive salting may have led to ugliness. So named Hoksrud's answer to a written question. So let me ask Hoksrud to read the whole answer. What was my point was not to increase speed – it shouldn't have been in that answer – but this: What happens if you become busy with the claim, rather than constantly maintaining better and building new and better roads? That's what I'm focusing on. Then the claim is as it is when it relates to gross negligence on the part of the owner. It is such a decision today, which is being followed. We have a great job to do in terms of both better maintenance of the roads and building new and better roads. I think it'll mean us all to focus on it, rather than contributing to maybe a thousand of the annual works that relate to either control measurement, that Langeland was in, or others -- let's call it - bureaucratic relationships, in the light of what should really be a common commitment. And then I haven't experienced anyone here having hustling over some deadlocks. When we're glad that the number of people killed and injured is reduced, it's of course a skinny comfort for those who have lost their lives. We must never forget to heed the vision of zero killers. A recent report on road safety efforts shows that the targets set for the number of people killed and seriously injured in traffic have been reached more quickly than one would have hoped. The 2014 target was already reached in 2010, showing fresh figures. We must not let go of our efforts. On the contrary, he must be intensified when it comes to both road, rail and road users.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2308	Case No. 8 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2314	That's why the size is supposed to be moaning. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2324	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Bent Höie, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 2, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to take the initiative to form an ‘alience of well-being’ between the public, both state and municipality, together with the non-profit institutions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2352	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1 from the Advancement Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government calls for greater diversity, freedom of choice and quality of welfare services, by proposing that a publicly funded freedom of choice regime be introduced in the welfare sector to ensure that users are free to choose from among pre-authorised providers of welfare services, proposing to develop common quality parameters for the various service areas, proposing to develop open quality portals on networks where the quality and supply of the various institutions are made visible and comparable, proposing a new procurement policy to ensure more long-term and predictability for operators, as well as greater diversity of supply.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2385	During the debate Per Arne Olsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to facilitate the establishment of public-private cooperation projects linked to future hospitalisations. [[OPS]] If this would lead to a need for legislative changes, this will be put ahead of the Grand total for treatment in 2011.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2408	In Case No: 4–8 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-05-03.ana.ud1640e2420	There is no record. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
