ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e68	The former deputy of Akershu County, Bente Stein Mathisen, has again taken up the seat. From 8 February to 10 February, an application has been submitted by the Workers' Group for a care permit to the representative Thomas Breen. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Farahnaz Bahrami, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e91	Farahnaz Bahrami is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e99	The representative, Mr Borghild Tenden, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e102	On behalf of Trine Skei Grande and myself, I would like to propose two representative proposals – the one on the organisation of energy-producing buildings in Norway, and the other on intercity trains in the East.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e107	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e123	Trafficking, or rather trafficking in human beings, is the slavery of our time. Trafficking in human beings is a violation of many human rights and is much more extensive than what we traditionally think when we hear the word trafficking. What we're thinking about first is prostitution of women, but it's all about trafficking in human beings. So how is trafficking defined? Under the criminal law, it is by use of violence, threats, abuse of vulnerable situations or by other improper behaviour to exploit others for prostitution or other sexual purposes, forced labour or organ sale. Risk sectors can be found anywhere in the world of work — textiles, au pair and babysitting, transport, hotel and restaurant industries, or on the streets. Risk groups are illegal immigrants, children, women and minorities. There are numerous conventions, working groups and decisions dealing with trafficking in human beings, and in both the UN, the EU and Baltic Sea cooperation the problems are concrete and defined. Norway has had a good action plan, which has now been evaluated, and new and up-to-date follow with new measures – which I am very pleased with. So what do we do with all the knowledge we have? What kind of action does it take? What doesn't work? How do we get the backman sitting in a completely different country? How can we ensure that victims of human trafficking dare to make contact and dare to break out? How do we best protect the victim? How do we punish, and what is the best solution? In the BSPC – the working group on civil security of the Parliamentary Baltic Sea Cooperation, where I and also the representative Oktay Dahl sit – trafficking in human beings has been the topic of the last year. We have become well aware of the positions of the Member States, and we have provided an interim report with recommendations and measures. A full report is available for the autumn. In this work, we have looked at various measures that can be taken — economics, police work, the role of the victim, children as victims, and the law in the different countries — and we have tried to get a common understanding of what human trafficking really is. The Norwegian action plan has, of course, been an important part of our input to the group. So what's this all about? Last year there were 292 potential victims of trafficking in human beings in Norway under follow-up. 69 of these were children under the age of 18. These children were exploited for begging, theft or forced labor, but also prostitution. In the evening post we could read about a Romanian 13-year-old who was sold for 10 000 euros and was arrested in Stavanger for shoplifting. She is one of many children who may have been forced into crime, drug trafficking or begging. The 13-year-old was sold by his parents and was subjected to violence if she did not follow the recommendations and demands of her new «owners». These are people who travel around Europe, and it is therefore difficult to grasp. She's one of many. There are also examples of people who are used to beg by day and prostitution in the evening, who are forced to give birth to children — children who are later exploited for sex or begging — or workers who live under poor conditions without the possibility of repatriation, with debts to the backman without any real possibility of paying back. There are pedophile men who marry women with children to get access to their kids, or the aupair system, which is a good system in which the cultural exchange works, but which can now also function so that you become the new slave in the house. Or it's the sex tourist who goes to land where children are easily accessible. That's how I could unfortunately keep on forever. Too many things are being blamed. That's 90 pst. by the cases filed, is no good news. Few are convicted, and in 2009 there were only five pieces of judgment. It gives us signals that we are not in target with the measures we have. However, there are several good measures. I have visited ROSA, which provides good assistance and safe places of residence for women who have been exposed to human trafficking, and who, together with the police, UDI, LO and COM, make a great effort. The PRO centre is also doing a good job. They can tell us that they've had contact with more men as victims, which is often underreported, because it's traditionally women we hear about when we talk about prostitution. It's doing a lot of good to get to work. COM, i.e. the Human Trade Coordination Unit, a project established by the government in 2006, is working on several types of trafficking in human beings in the cross between forced labour and social dumping. The Labour Inspectorate is also a participant, which strengthens and contributes to several points of contact for the detection of trafficking in human beings. But what about those who we don't reach, or who won't accept help? The connection between fear and threats, violence, both physical and mental, and the lack of faith in a new future plays on who we reach. Many have kids in their home country or there are threats to their families at home, and the psychological violence they are subjected to makes it difficult to break out. The Hallikes govern from abroad with mobile contact, with threats – among others. about using voodoo where there is a natural threat. Police and other authorities can often be met with suspicion rather than being seen as helpers, due to poor experience from the past. I am proud that Norway has a low threshold to provide a so-called reflection period. The reflection period allows you to assess for six months what you want for something else. During that period, there is a limited temporary residence permit to be able to break the environment and to allow for criminal prosecution against backers. The residence permit may also be extended for a further year if the need exists due to investigations and legal proceedings. That's good. But it's also important to have an entire race after the reflection period. Here you might need to consider a permanent stay after the matter is finished, and they have to be followed up better. I have received signals that this is not happening today. More cooperation is needed with the police and the UDI, so that the victims are not released alone after the criminal case has been settled. You might be able to look at the requirement for today's identification papers. Perhaps it can be done differently than requiring a birth certificate from your home country, to ensure that the backers do not get hold of the victim again. The risk of retrafficking is great if we don't have systems that capture and secure them. Several people may also need a new identity to get away from their pimps. Signals from the PRO centre are based on a number of regrets that they went into a reflection period, because they get even less control over their own lives, and that things take time. The evaluation report for the reflection period states: ‘When a victim of human trafficking feels that she has had better prospects by staying with the trafficker than she has after receiving the Norwegian aid, it is necessary to assess what is offered.’ We must take that seriously, but I believe in a good reflection period. Return after the Dublin Agreement, i.e. to the first country to which they came is often the result of a refusal. Most coming here have been in Italy or Spain first. I would also like to ask the Council of State to include the concern for children – which we all have in common, I think, and I am pleased to see that there is a large chapter in the action plan. More and more victims carry children, and children are born into such relationships. These we have to have an extra protection and catch up. Another challenge is health rights. What kind of rights are they going to have? Who's going to pay? It is important to be clear about it, so that those who come in contact with a victim know this. I hope we can look more into that. Human trafficking in organs has been a small problem in Norway, while in other countries it is a major and growing problem. Bodies are a commodity for sale and are going to be even more sought after in the future. I think we should also be aware of that here in Norway – and take our precautions. We have to do a lot of things at once. A lot of what we do is good. Much of what's going on here, we're doing. But I think we can develop it even better. Anyone coming into contact with a possible victim must contribute to the dialogue in order to help. We know, for example. that it is economic – that is money – in dealing with people. It's resoldable, and we have to stop the money. Reductions in amounts that can be transferred and more customs controls on exit may be some measures. The active use of criminal law where necessary and the use of penalties as a means is also important. I look forward to the debate here today. I hope that together we can find even more measures that can provide even better protection and even better protection for those who are victims of human trafficking – for that they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e170	I would like to thank the inter-pellant for having the opportunity to discuss this important topic and to present the new action plan in this area. I am also grateful for the efforts made by the interpellant itself to combat trafficking in human beings, among others. in its participation in parliamentary cooperation in the Baltic Sea Council. I can assure you that the government will continue and strengthen its efforts to combat trafficking in human beings, including: by continuing to protect and provide assistance to victims of trafficking in human beings. The government’s new action plan against trafficking in human beings was presented at the turn of the year and will govern our efforts in the coming years. The plan contains 35 measures that the departments concerned are responsible for implementing. I think it is appropriate to mention that the Ministry of Defence has also participated in the discussions on the development of the new action plan. The defence shall, for example: support both NATO and UN policies internationally. Norwegian military personnel in international positions shall be drivers and contributors to combat trafficking in human beings through mandates, exposure rules, conduct rules, education and operational requirements. Defence missions related to UN Security Council Resolution 1325 on women, peace and security involve, inter alia, foreign operations. enhancing contact with local women in conflict zones and ensuring the safety of women. This is also central to preventing trafficking in human beings, and it is important to me that the Ministry of Defence also actively participates in the government's overall efforts to combat trafficking in human beings. Norway has international obligations to ensure victims of trafficking in human beings residing in the country, assistance and protection. In recent years, much has been done to strengthen the situation of victims. Victims are often non-residents without a residence permit in Norway. In order to provide them with an opportunity to escape the influence of traffickers and to have time to take informed decisions on cooperation with the police, a limited residence permit may be applied for in the form of a reflection period of up to six months. Victims who give a testimony that has been insulted in criminal proceedings concerning trafficking in human beings against the rearmen are generally entitled to a residence permit in Norway. On behalf of the Ministry of Justice, Fafo has assessed the functioning of the reflection period in relation to its purpose. The evaluation report was submitted at the end of January. The report makes it clear that today's system is a compromise between the need to prosecute backers and the need to provide adequate assistance to victims. The Fafo report points out that the Norwegian scheme is a generous low-threshold scheme, and that this is why it captures broad groups of victims, with complicated roles and stories. The further follow-up to the Fafo report must, in my view, be based on this when we are now considering changes in order to better assist victims of trafficking in human beings. The report from Fafo has important analyses of the police’s approach to the victims and will also provide the basis for a thorough evaluation of the overall police effort. It is important for me to stress that the way in which the police meet and treat victims is essential for the proper exercise of their rights. Last week I had the opportunity to get a brief brief briefing from the Trondheim Police Department on their experience in the field. The police and prosecution authorities in Trondheim have conducted extensive investigations against traffickers and have shown the early importance of close cooperation between police and state attorneys in order to obtain convictions and to secure the victims. The Ministry of Justice finances the ROSSA project, which has already been mentioned, which has coordinated a nationwide offer with safe accommodation for victims since 2005. Through ROSA, crisis centres have been the central element of Norwegian efforts to assist victims. Through ROSA, victims have access to legal and other forms of assistance, including information. on the voluntary return scheme established in cooperation with the international organisation for migration. The Emergency Centres Act, which entered into force in January 2010, states that municipalities are to provide a crisis centre offer that can be used by vulnerable groups. The preparatory work of the law provides for the offer to include victims of trafficking in human beings. The Government will continue to support the Rosa project. Since 2009, the state has financed the residence of Lauras Hus, a project run by Nadheim Church's Bymission. Laura's House offers a comprehensive approach with close follow-up of female victims with a great need for assistance. The project has recently expanded its activities by connecting two apartments, which will also be open to men if it appears to be necessary. The experience with Laura's house is so far very positive. The project provides valuable insight and experience in the overall follow-up of victims. This measure shall be subject to a follow-up evaluation and shall be aimed at continuing the project throughout the year. In the 2009 state budget, Stortinget created a project pot of 10 million. under the budget of the Ministry of Justice, earmarked actions or projects to improve the situation of prostitutes and to help women and men out of prostitution. The system has continued, and funding has been given to projects in many of our largest cities, where victims of trafficking are offered treatment for trauma, there is provision of work projects and training measures. This year, too, the Government will hold dialogue meetings with representatives of the relief measures and public bodies assisting persons in prostitution and victims of trafficking in human beings, for example. ensuring that the project funds are also used in an appropriate way in the future. In order to combat trafficking in human beings, it is necessary to strengthen coordination between authorities and organisations in the field. Effective anti-trafficking strategies and programmes must be developed continuously, and jointly. The Government established in 2006 the project Coordination Unit for Victims of Trafficking in Human Beings – COM. COM is tasked with identifying the extent of trafficking in human beings in Norway and documenting and addressing challenges facing relief measures and authorities. COM has acted as an effective forum for exchange of experience, cooperation and coordination. The COM is therefore to be continued as a permanent instrument for better coordination between authorities and organisations. The exploitation of children for trafficking in human beings seriously violates human rights and is a serious form of crime. Both the child protection authorities, the police, the foreign agencies and other relief services are responsible for ensuring that minors who are subject to trafficking in human beings are properly dealt with. Different child protection training measures and other relevant assistance services have been implemented in order to identify potential victims at an early stage and to implement assistance measures. The government will ensure better coordination and clearer lines of responsibility in the follow-up of single minor asylum seekers and minors who are not associated with Norway in situations where the child may be suspected of being exploited in trafficking in human beings. Furthermore, good follow-up and quality assurance of procedures, including procedures for cross-border cooperation, must be ensured in order to prevent and clarify the disappearance of minors from care centres or reception centres. The Government aims to implement the transfer of responsibility for the care of lone asylum seekers between 15 and 18 years of age to the protection of children, but considers that the resource situation in the protection of children indicates that this is not possible for the current four-year period. Overall, there is a need to emphasise that there is today good cooperation between authorities and organisations responsible for combating trafficking in human beings. The government wants to further develop cooperation, so that our joint efforts to assist victims are strengthened, and the new action plan against trafficking in human beings provides a solid basis for such development. There is also a basis for expressing pride in what the government, together with the magnificence representatives of both the opposition and the red-green parties, has done to assist and protect victims of trafficking in human beings. Nevertheless, this is an area of movement and development, where we cannot allow ourselves to stop and say that now we are satisfied. The aim is to avoid trafficking in human beings in Norway and to achieve that objective, efforts must continue to identify and assist victims in an ever-increasing way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e206	I thank the Council of State for a very good presentation. I must admit that I too am very proud of the job that has been done, in relation to both the first and the second action plan. But we have to move on. One of the advice we've been given in the group I work in is that we have to look at the economy. We have to follow the money, because it's hard money we're talking about. It's being sent out maybe 21 million. kr in the year that has its background in human trafficking. Money is the main reason people deal with people. In January, a currency of 4.85 million was seized. kr. That's an increase of 30 pst. from last year. On TV2.no we could read about the bickey Ben, who snuffs up cash for the Tollvesen. He's one of three bikes that was used last year, and he turned to over 10 million. kr in the currency of smuggling from various illegal activities, some of which came from trafficking in human beings. Seizures of money are mainly made out of Norway. The Customs Director estimates that there may be exemptions of between 2 and 3 billion. kr a year, so here we're talking about a lot of money. Harald Boehler of the Oslo Police STOP group had a good post for the BSPC group when they were in Oslo. He made it clear that this is an international matter and that we should consider further tightening of amounts that can be transferred freely. Flights are cheap, so the effort must also be put in with those like Ben. We need to ensure that a number of existing control bodies work, such as Customs, tax authorities and border controls, and they need to coordinate their efforts to track illegal cash flows out of the country. We must have legislation that provides protection, and that is perceived as strict enough, as the Council of State was about to do. We must have attitudes in society that do not accept that we are dealing with people – a trade that happens over and over again because it is resoldible. It's either the labour force or the body we're talking about, and we have to dry out the discussion: what do you pay for a slave? What are you at risk? What do you make of that? We have recommended some measures in our interim report that I hope may be of further interest, such as: the simple case does not involve the use of hotels where sex purchases take place and require it as a pre-requisite before entering that hotel. I am satisfied with the reflection period and hope that it can be further developed and built on, because I think it is very good. And I look forward to the debate here in the Chamber, because I think a further focus on the matter is the only thing that can help to end our time of slavery.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e225	I think the interpellant points to something that is crucial when she points to the need to follow the cash flows. Analysis of who serves on this dirty traffic could always help authorities target their actions against the rules, international cooperation and awareness-raising. The action plan also shows a broad approach in this area and underlines the need for not only international police cooperation but also cooperation in other areas, from financial legislation to cooperation between organisations working together across borders. This is about contributing to increased awareness and good attitudes, setting the right legal framework and ensuring good competence. The action plan has a number of measures that we will now follow up, in close cooperation with other departments and organisations involved. This is a work that will require constant attention. We have to go on, because the goal is, as I also stressed in my statement, that we should not tolerate trafficking in human beings in Norway. We also need to know how to evaluate the measures that are now running, whether they work well enough, and not least whether the reflection period has the right content – in order to know that we are constantly improving our efforts in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e234	I want to thank the interpellant for bringing up an important topic. Trafficking in human beings is a modern slave trade. Trade involves exploiting special children and women, but also men, using power and threats, to include: sexual services. At the same time, we know that other forms of human trafficking, such as begging and forced labour, are also increasing on a world-wide basis. Trafficking in human beings is a global growing problem, closely linked to globalisation and migration. At the same time, only a small number of things are reported or otherwise made known to the authorities. There is a significant lack in our knowledge of how human trafficking is organised and how incomes and money streams are channelled and money laundering. Unfortunately, human trafficking is the hallmark of high profit and low risk. Many of the victims of human trafficking are exposed to acts that are considered torture, and that for most of us are incomprehensible. Election, coercion and loss of freedom are examples of how many must experience. We know that several women who have been helped and who are currently in crisis centre have also had children as a result of having been forced to sell their bodies. I want to be so clear because I think everyone needs a reminder of what is involved in the ‘trafficking of human beings’ and because sometimes there is a need to clarify what this is about: cynical exploitation of human beings and total lack of respect for human dignity. Trafficking in human beings is both a global and a national challenge. Because he is cross-border, it is important and right that the themes are high on the agenda of international organisations such as the United Nations, the EU, the OSCE and the Council of Europe. At the same time, it is at least equally important that countries take on the need to pursue an active policy to fight against this type of crime on the ground, which I believe the government may be proud to have done. The fight against human trafficking concerns us all, and he can only be won if the countries work much closer together than the case is today. An increasing number of victims have been identified in Norway in recent years and have received appropriate assistance and protection. The police have mapped and prosecuted human traffickers. But we're in no way in the goal. Too few human traffickers are persecuted and convicted, and too few victims are able to break out. This type of international organised crime is demanding to fight against. There is a need for political will and concrete action. I would like to commend the government for having done just that – for having shown the political will and power to fight trafficking in human beings, now last by launching another action plan against trafficking in human beings. Measures show that we are on the right track. We still don't have to give ourselves this. The fight against this type of crime requires continuous focus. The Council of State was clear that the government will continue to support the ROSSA project, which has been so central to the aid work in its provision of safe housing and follow-up to victims. That's good. In addition, Laura's House is another example of follow-up, and it should be a goal to extend the use of this type of housing. Crisis centres, municipalities and voluntary organisations are responsible for protecting victims and enhancing the competence of those who come into contact with potential victims. The Coordination Unit for Victims of Trafficking in Human Beings, COM, has created a solid cooperation platform for establishments and organisations where solutions to current challenges can be found. They all do a very, very good job and praise it. I will end by saying that I am happy that the Council of State is so ready in its embassy. This is an area where we can't stop and say happy. The goal must be to avoid trafficking in human beings in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e253	First, I would also like to thank the interpellant for putting the topic of trafficking on the agenda. This applies to all trafficking, whether for trafficking in human beings to the sex industry, for begging, for the sale of organs or for the sale of newborns. All of this is completely unacceptable. I would then also like to thank the government for coming together with the new Action Plan against trafficking in human beings 2011-2014. It's a very good document that I would recommend most people read. Just a little tip when they're going to press it up again – because there's going to be a lot of demand, I think: also include which conventions Norway is bound by. It might be very useful to bring it all in the back. But then it is important to comply with this action plan. We're not going out here on the street for a long time until we meet beggars who certainly haven't traveled here on their own, nor are we going to go to Karl Johan at night until we meet women from African countries who have hardly come here on their own. I have pointed out on several occasions that there is organized begging in Norway. This has to a small extent been commented on by the Minister of Justice or dismissed as a matter of urgency, despite the fact that in 2003 a separate provision on begging as a trafficking in human beings was introduced in Section 224 of the Criminal Code. But people are still being transported to begging and prostitution in the streets of Norway, which means that we tacitly accept this form of trafficking in human beings. So on another point: we have recently had a lot of focus on – and that was up in the January session of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly – trade in organs, focusing on Kosovo and Albania. The report discussed was written by Dick Marty, who claimed that the Prime Minister of Kosovo, Thaçi, had a position with the Drenica group or, to put it another way, the Drenica mafia group, which was just involved in organ trafficking. Internationally, very many heads of state and governments were aware of this when Thaçi became prime minister, but they chose to ignore this fact because it was beneficial to have an ally in the Balkans. I have asked the Minister for Foreign Affairs whether he knew Thaçi's past life, which he denied. And good it is. 2 500 people disappeared in Kosovo, and 1 300 people today live with a lack of organs that the group has operated out and sold abroad. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe now decided in January that this matter should be investigated, for of course we cannot accept trafficking in human beings. It must not be the case that the winners, whether they are heads of state, look through the fingers with which crimes have been committed while the losers are being punished. Everyone is equal to the law, and everyone who has contributed to human trafficking is to be punished. The punishment must be severe, so that it does not tempt others to make easy money at the expense of others. Finally, I would like to ask the Minister of Justice a question about the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, which goes directly to the interpellation we have today. On 3 June and 24 November last year, Mr Voksdal asked the Minister of Justice why Norway has not ratified this convention as one of the last countries to do so. The answer was then from the Minister of Justice that we should wait until the criminal code of 2005 enters into force and that it cannot come into force until the upgrading of the police computer system has been completed. This may take time, and I wonder why you can't ratify such an important convention because the police computer hasn't been upgraded. There are children involved, children who are exposed to trafficking and sexual exploitation. Norway should be the best in this class and should not wait for the upgrade of a computer system. I want to know how far we've come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e270	This is an important theme. I want to thank the interpellant for giving us the opportunity to talk about it in Stortinget. Unfortunately, there are too many people who become victims of human trafficking and are exploited by cynical criminals behind men. Like many before me, this can apply to many, regardless of sex and age. It is in any case a terrible situation and a gross intrusion to get into the hands of brutal backers who are only busy making money. Men and women who end up in the backyard of this life remain here for a long time, some forever — especially women. They actually have to pay to have ended up in this situation, and many are working up an insurmountable debt. I am pleased that the government has a sharp and continuous focus on this. I refer to several measures that the Council of State mentioned in its statement. We're going to have to keep on strengthening these. It would be absurd to rank when we talk about victims of trafficking and trafficking in human beings. I see, however, that we have to see children in this picture a little bit more than we do today. Unfortunately, too many children become victims of criminals. When children do not find safety and stability in their everyday lives, they become an easy trade for criminals who use them to sell drugs, rob other children and adults, expose them to pedophilia, begging and other atrocities. We like to think that there is no difference between children in Norway. I'm sorry. If my child, my daughter, stays away for a few hours without knowing where she is, I expect we'll put heaven and earth in motion. The police will use all the resources available and necessary to find her. Unfortunately, we do not do that when asylum-seeking children become untracked. Lone children seeking asylum shall have the same rights as other children in Norway. When a child goes away, it doesn't conjure up. The child exists, but has then wanted to get in the wrong hands. The child is exploited and can be subjected to serious injuries. A whole life is lost. We need to pay more attention to children who disappear from the asylum recipients. There must be a much greater awareness in the police, the Foreign Affairs Directorate, child protection and the rest of the apparatus when asylum seekers disappear. That is why I am very pleased that the work to combat trafficking in human beings with children has been given a full chapter in the new action plan against trafficking in human beings. In this plan, the government writes this about what we know about children and trafficking in human beings: ‘Municipals from Somalia, Eritrea, Romania, Ethiopia and Afghanistan constitute the five largest groups of countries in the statistics. In terms of purpose, 49 percent were exploited in forced labour and about 14 percent were exploited in sexual services. Forced labour, including drug sales, begging, theft and housework, was the dominant form of exploitation among minors who are under follow-up as potential victims of trafficking in human beings in Norway.’ In other words, we know a lot about what's going on. This knowledge requires us to continue the fight for children's rights. I will therefore join all previous speakers and the Council of State in their emphasis on and wish to continue to strengthen their efforts. It's about vulnerable people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e294	Interpellant addresses a serious issue against which targeted action needs to be implemented. I agree with the representative Sonja Mandt that an additional focus could help to overcome human trafficking and gross exploitation of human beings. One must recognize at the same time that this is not easy. The problems are widespread in international contexts and are becoming increasingly common here. As an example, I can refer to the large increase in the number of beggars in the last few years, where young and old sit at 15 minus degrees and shake their cup. Although it is not easy to know when such is so-called voluntary or part of organised crime and trafficking in human beings, it is a sign of an increasing problem. These developments have been particularly marked since the Government lifted the ban on begging in 2005. Whether to introduce a new prohibition or not, it is something you can discuss again. Whether you do it or not, you have to realize that trafficking in human beings is not just done by cynical aliens on big criminal networks. Trafficking in human beings can also be carried out to the greatest extent by family members and clans, and it is not better for that reason. Every day, the Norwegian police do an important job against trafficking in human beings. They need to be able to do this job. The government has increased the police budget a lot in recent years, especially in the last few years. strengthening the potential of the police to fight against trafficking in human beings. Trafficking in human beings is a serious violation of fundamental human rights, and we in the Red-Green Government have seen the theme of trafficking in human beings on the agenda by producing targeted action plans. In addition, we are concerned that Norway should be a driver for strengthening, coordinating and implementing international anti-trafficking legislation. Resources from Norway can contribute well to projects to promote human dignity in other countries as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e305	I would also like to thank the interpellant for putting this important topic on the agenda. Children must be protected and not exploited by cynical adults. The right raised this question in a Question Time in the spring of 2010. It was based on the fact that for several years, children have disappeared from the asylum-seeker in Asker for minor asylum-seekers. The entire municipality, neighbors and reception staff are very concerned about what's happening to these children. One suspects that they may be exposed to just human trafficking and cynical backers. I think the answer I then received from the Council of State was quite evasive. It hasn't been done that much, and kids are still disappearing. It's an important topic. Therefore, action should now be taken to put an end to such disappearances of the very weakest coming to Norway. We should set that up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e314	First, I have to thank the interpellant for raising a very important issue and for the good debate that has been going on. Slavery does not belong to the past. It still exists around the world, even in countries like France and the United States. It also happens in Norway. All over the world there are slaves who work, labor and lir. Slaves in Pakistan may have sewn shoes you go with, and the carpet you're on. Slaves in India may have made the shirts you're wearing, and they may have sanded the ring you're wearing on your finger. Slaves on the Caribbean islands may have produced the sugar you have in the kitchen. Slaves in Africa may have cultivated the cocoa you have in your locker. They have received very little or no payment for the job. The number of slaves in the world today is larger than ever. This is what Kevin Bales, the president of the Free the Slaves organization, has said. I think it's thought-provoking. According to Bales, there are 27 million slaves today. There are twice as many Africans who were transported across the Atlantic in their time. According to the United Nations, trafficking in human beings and human beings is the second most profitable activity in international and organised crime, after the trade in weapons, and is currently well-known both in international migration and in refugee institutions. We're probably a lot of people who've been listening to and viewing William Wilberforce as a big picture. He was a young man elected to Parliament in the United Kingdom and spent his life fighting slavery. Together with good friends, he succeeded in winning the battle to banish slavery. In many ways, the consciousness of many still has a little bit of the battle that was won at that time. Because I don't think there are as many people who are aware of the situation in the world today, and in Norway today. The number of victims of human trafficking is increasing in Norway. In the last few years, we have seen that it has been our business where human trafficking is linked to au pair-action, sex-room, begging, etc., that several have been involved. That the problem increases might be a sign that it's too simple and too lucrative for the backers to come to Norway and run this business. That is why I think it is critical that the government has not presented a new action plan on trafficking in human beings until now. You went out in 2009. The Christian People's Party repeatedly called for a new action plan, and we are very pleased that he finally came. It is interesting to note that the pressure has been so great and that there have been so many concrete measures, but then there has been so much time without an action plan in place. Because the pressure has been so great, I had hoped that the plan could have come sooner. But as I said, I am pleased that he has come, because concrete measures are important. The Christian People's Party has come up with several proposals for action. We have called for an action plan of our own, especially targeting children who are victims of trafficking in human beings. Particularly minor asylum seekers are vulnerable in the context of trafficking in human beings. There is reason to believe that several of the hundreds of children who have disappeared from the reception of asylum are or have become victims of trafficking in human beings, without adequate follow-up from the police. We have also wanted a specialised police unit that only works with human trafficking and children, because special knowledge and skills are required to work with human trafficking. In this way, we also have the right to an own special offer, a centre, for children, as an identifier as a victim of human trafficking, with specialised personnel. In this context, we believe that child protection should generally be given responsibility for the care of single minor asylum seekers between 15 and 18 years of age. I noticed that the Council of State said that one has to take care of children in a defensive way. I'm glad. But I'm also very disappointed that in the same sentence she said that because of the economy, there can be nothing to do about the responsibility of the single minor asylum seekers. That's the argument for a task that you should do, I think I'm sad. The Christian People's Party has also called for one to be given a boost to the level of knowledge among most people. If you look at the United States, one third of modern slavery is covered by ordinary citizens. In order for ordinary citizens to be able to help, there is also a need for a larger information channel. That's why we want information about not only William Wilberforce and about the slavery that once existed, to be a student in the secondary school, but also that modern slavery is brought into teaching, so that more people get knowledge and information, so it's easier to specify. It'll cost you money, but it's important that you focus on it. The argument for implementing measures must not be thwarted by economic reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e336	First, thank you to the interpellant, and also thank you to the Council of State for a very good post. In the last big period, I was visiting UNODC, the United Nations Organization for Drugs and Organised Crime, in Vienna. We received shocking descriptions of the cynical trafficking of human beings to which, not least, women and children from south-east Europe and the Caucasus are exposed. Women and children are sold to brothels or traffic northwards in Europe for prostitution. When the girls can no longer be used as sex slaves, they are used for organ donation, we were also told – because so much is a human life worth. As the Council of State said, the exploitation of children for trafficking in human beings may be particularly offensive in terms of human rights – there are violations of the most serious and serious form of crime. UNODC showed us shocking examples of how children were sold both for slave labor and for brothel and street prostitution. And we're really talking about international organized crime with a lot of money. In the hearing held by the control committee before Christmas, it was found that organised crime, including in Norway, has become ‘interdisciplinary’. An example from Bergen illustrates this: baptism was sold by West African asylum seekers. The money was physically brought out of the country by Nigerian prostitutes — with the same backers, of course. I think it's important to look at the victims of human trafficking. In Norway, the Rosa project of the Crisis Centre Secretariat is doing a great job of caring for girls who have been able to get out of the backyards in recent years, despite represals against the family in their home country. Through ROSA, the girls have, among other things, received legal assistance and job training, and it is very important that the government continues to support the ROSSA project. The same is true of the Church's City Commission Nadheim Center. In addition to the action plan, we have three laws in Norway to combat trafficking in human beings and prostitution: we have bans on brothels, we have bans on hallucinations, and we have bans on buying sex. I want to commend the police's STOP team for taking so much of the internal market in prostitution through the brothel ban. Here, international mafia is trying to sell Eastern European and African girls. At a seminar in Oslo a few years ago, there was a Lithuanian girl who told me that every third family in her home country has a relative who is or has been the victim of human trafficking, and this is really dramatic. The Oslo police have also done a formidable job of enforcing the Sex Purchases Act. The number of foreign prostitutes has fallen sharply. However, I am quite stated when I read about the lack of follow-up in Stavanger – add to the newspaper on Sunday. The Sex Purchases Act is important — in addition to combating trafficking in human beings — also because it recognises that the prostitution market is the problem. The law recognises the different power relationships between supply and demand by criminalising customers. The law is a settlement of structures and attitudes that reduce women's sexuality to a good. Purchases of sex, as well as violence against women, are also trampled on sexual equality between men and women. Before the Sex Purchases Act came into force, it was like boys from high school in Oslo actually debuted sexually with prostitutes, and I wonder what kind of view the boys get on women's sexuality in that regard. Trafficking in human beings and the purchase of sex is treating people as goods – whether you sell them, how they sell them, how they buy them, how they buy them. It's humiliating women and children. When we are to help the victims, that work must be based on respect, dignity and upliftment. That's what the ROSA project is so very good at. Then I am also pleased that the Ministry of Defence is actually taking up the fight against trafficking as part of UN Security Council Resolution 1325. The Ministry of Defence must be very grateful for that! I want to end with a story from India. It's a true story, and it's about a Norwegian ship: A crazy little 11-year-old goes slowly uphill to one of the boats that have just added the berth. She pinches the spider's hands against the abdomen, as if to protect it. A few hours later, the dick leaves the ship. 22 men have had fun with her, and she has got about. one Norwegian Krone of each. Her father ordered her on board the boats to get money so that the child-rich family could survive. So it's important that we care!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e365	I will also be allowed to thank the interpellant for the debate on the Action Plan against Trafficking in Human Beings in Stortinget – otherwise there is a danger that it would have remained in the shelves outside the despatch office – so thank you to the interpellant for that! I would also like to inform you that the interpellation is partly designed in cooperation with us in the Council of Europe – for which membership is committed. Trafficking in human beings is a serious violation of human rights and has been high on the Council of Europe's agenda since the late 1980s. A separate Convention against trafficking in human beings entered into force in 2007 and requires Member States to protect, prevent, detect and prosecute victims. A system of its own should make sure that we actually follow up. A week and a half ago, Denmark received a visit from the monitoring body. Norway comes in round number two and receives questionnaires this month, and before 1 September we will answer for responsibility positioning, actions taken and results achieved in Norway. Trafficking in human beings is a dirty business with a large scale – the world's second-largest criminal industry, which affects over 2.5 million people each year, and half is under 18 years of age. Human beings are lured, fools, threatened with a life where everyday life is synonymous with gross exchange, repeated intrusions, and deep humiliation. The slave traders take the vulnerable, and children are most vulnerable by all. If it's possible to grade, trafficking in human beings with children is the very lowest. The distribution between countries of origin, transit and destination is not random. People are taken to poor countries and led to richer countries where customers are. Norway is the recipient country. Some customers of this dirty trick are here. The Council of Europe Conventions apply to all. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child applies to everyone. Children who are victims of human trafficking can look far beyond these rights if no one sees them. I'm afraid there's a great chance that no one does. The action plan says that there are probably more minor victims of trafficking in human beings in Norway than the authorities are able to track down today. We know a link, from trafficking in human beings with children to asylum policy. Lone minors disappear from reception. The suspicion of trafficking in human beings is baffling. The Ministry of Justice report of 2008 showed that 51 children disappeared from reception in the period 2005–2007, with varying follow-up and little knowledge of where they went. The warning procedures were tightened after this. The new newsletter of the Foreign Affairs Directorate requires police and child protection to be notified of follow-up when lone minors are absent from reception. The risk to trafficking in human beings shall be assessed. So from 2000 to 2010, 388 children have disappeared from reception in Norway. Some have been found, but at a very close distance to everyone, even in the last year, despite tightening rules. In 2009, as the action plan refers to, 69 minors were followed up as possible victims, most from Somalia, Eritrea, Ethiopia and Afghanistan, but also from one of the Council of Europe’s Member States, Romania. Half was used for forced labour, 14 pst. for sexual services. We often think of the customers of traffickers as people who live a little bit on the shadow side of society. There is therefore reason to note that housework is one of the so-called services offered and purchased – perhaps something to think about for those who still buy that kind of service in this country. Last year, Redd Barna placed Norway in the category of countries that had made ‘some progress’ in the fight against trafficking in children. The action plan – the new one – offers children a separate chapter, and that’s good. Close international cooperation on vulnerable children is necessary and it is important to pool the knowledge currently disseminated and partly undocumented on the situation in Norway. So it's about money, yes, but not just about money, also about methods and systematic work over time that we don't have to let go of. In Report. Article 7 on the fight against organised crime, which is being dealt with by the Storting, specifically mentions children who disappear from reception. The same is going to happen in the notified notification of children on the run. It's great if Norway, with the sum of all of this now, gets in the way of the fight against trafficking in human beings with children. A first objective may be that the Redd Barna will move us into the category of ‘significant effort’ and that we will be ‘approved’ in the year’s control by the Council of Europe. Because, as the Council of State said, we are not going to tolerate trafficking in human beings in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e384	The representative Bente Stein Mathisen told in his speech about concerned employees at Hvalstad asylum reception for lone minor asylum seekers in Asker. I can confirm that concern. Recently, the representative visited Lise Christoffersen and I received him. We were told about children who have lived most of their lives without officers, who have survived on the street and traveled from country to country and have come to Norway. There is reason to believe that many of these kids have ties to criminal networks – sometimes they have debts they have to pay back; sometimes the criminal contacts are the only community, the only family they know. The reception experienced adults contacting other residents to track down their youth. Some children disappear from the reception, others become residents, but are often from time to time. This is consistent with reports from outreach social workers who have reported an increasing number of North African boys active in drug sales in drug settings in Oslo for several years. Some are assumed to be as young as 14 years old. They don't operate on their own. Save the Children and the National Association for Outreach Social Youth Work, the children believe that they are involved in organised crime and are victims of trafficking in human beings. Under the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings, potential victims of trafficking in human beings are entitled to assistance and protection until it has been established, where appropriate, that they have not been in a human trafficking situation. The Convention also states that when the age of the victim is unclear and there is reason to believe that he or she is a child, he or she shall be considered to be a minor and subject to special protective measures. Trafficking in children has been detected in Norway. Children come from different countries in Europe, Africa and Asia and are exploited, among others. Prostitution, forced labour, begging, theft and drug trafficking. These are children who fall between many chairs, without real care from good carers either in the reception or through child protection. Asylum reception is a voluntary provision of housing where no coercion can be used to prevent young people from moving from reception to possible exploitation. In 2009, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality sent out, at the hearing, a proposal for an amendment to the Child Protection Act that would allow temporary residence at an institution in order to ensure the protection and care of the child. It's important that this gets in place quickly. Today, the only housing for victims of trafficking in human beings in Norway is adapted to adult women. In the Netherlands, there is a separate reception for children who may be victims of trafficking in human beings. Minor asylum seekers who are believed to be victims are immediately sent to the so-called ‘child’s Shelters’ after arrival in the country. The children are appointed a guardian and receive legal assistance when their case is dealt with by the authorities. Children’s reception centres were established because children disappeared from normal receptions. They place great emphasis on security, have a secret address, look like ordinary houses, and do not allow the use of mobile phones and the Internet. It is good that the Government’s action plan contains five concrete measures for child victims for trafficking in human beings, including: strengthening their provision of housing. Both in order to help the children affected by trafficking in human beings and in order to bring their own trade to life, we should consider our own institutions for minor victims of trafficking in human beings. Without the safety of the victims, it is difficult to identify children's stories and get good cooperation with the police. It requires security measures in line with the crisis centres. In addition, high emphasis should be placed on organised education and good health follow-up. Trafficking in human beings must also be seen in the context of asylum policy. The government has announced a big message about children on the run. In preparation, Knut Storberget visited Hvalstad asylum recipients. That's great, because trafficking in children has to be an important perspective in that message as well. It is difficult to imagine anyone more vulnerable in Norway in 2011 than minor victims of trafficking in human beings. Giving these children an adapted offer is not just a question of international commitments and juss; it is a question of propriety.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e405	I would like to thank you for an incredibly good debate. It has highlighted the difficulty, the difficulty and the scope of this area. It also shows that there is a matter that we have to work a lot, much more with. I hear that my concern for children and their rights and opportunities is also shared by my co-representatives. That's the way an almost can't stand to think about what these kids have to endure. It is our responsibility as parliamentarians to take it seriously, and that is why we need to look at it further. I hope the Council of State will take that with me. What can we, as parliamentarians, do? Well, we can make and change laws, we can tighten up, we can make good action plans, as we have done here in Norway, but not least we can put the theme on the agenda and show that we do not accept – in the OSCE, in the BSPC, in the Council of Europe, in the UN and in all the arenas we have. We can also sign all relevant international conventions and decisions and adapt our legislation, because we need to combat trafficking in human beings locally and internationally, and targetedly, as I believe we do in Norway. Norway is a rich country. We are attractive to human trafficking. We have finances for it, and that's why we have a special responsibility to take that job. We also need to focus more on research on what works, and what can be done to coordinate the data collection we have on trafficking in human beings, to get new countermeasures and to provide even better support and protection for the victims. Human rights must be the star of all the measures we put in place, because, as has been said here several times from the pulpit, trafficking in human beings is a matter of concern to all of us, regardless of political views. This is what the debate here has shown, and I see that we have a cross-political agreement that we have a job to do here. We have a duty to act as individuals, but we also have a duty at the political level. We must demand that the exploitation of women, men and children who have been sold into slavery should not be part of our everyday lives. We don't want a "backyard of life," as Akhtar Chaudhry said so very well. I don't think we should have a «life backyard» in Norway. We have to work every day to avoid that. We have to work on our attitudes. We must also work with the positions internationally, which the representative Ropstad was also involved in. I would like to thank you again for a very good debate. The work against human trafficking and slavery of our time is going to continue, but it also shows that we care, because we want to do something about the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e420	I would also like to thank you for the good debate and again the interpellant for raising this important issue. I am also pleased with the broad support given to the plan. It is a good action plan, which has a number of measures that demonstrate the importance of good cooperation both between public agencies and with organisations concerned with the issues, and also that we are working well with this internationally. I am pleased with the proposals that have come to improve the plan. However, I would like to say that in the case of our international Convention obligations, we are fortunately in the situation that the Norwegian legislation is already well balanced against the Convention obligations. But of course, we can't settle down because we don't have the formalities in place. I can only refer to the answer that the Minister of Justice has previously given to this, that it is to be considered if necessary to make changes to the current criminal law if otherwise it would go too far in order to ratify only after the 2005 Act has come into force. Trafficking in human beings also shows the paradox that decisions that we found right to make in this big business related, for example, to: beggaring, we have had to reconsider. We took the provision out of the law on prosecuting, but have later been given provisions on this in the human trafficking regulation in order to be able to target the backers, not least, who serve on this, and there are demanding issues. Otherwise, I can only stress that we are of course working to ensure good care for children who are in a difficult situation and where they are suspected of being in a human trafficking situation. It may not be right to transfer responsibility for child protection in a situation where we know that they are both in a demanding transition and where we are discussing the need for increased resources for child protection. Otherwise, I thank you again for the debate. We follow up the work on the plan further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e433	So the debate is on case No. 1 over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e447	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is the representative of Tore Nordtun, who is speaking on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Sverre Myrli, who has been nominated.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e458	The defence has undergone a significant change over the last ten years. We've gone from a mobilization defense to an intervention defense. The question is whether we have a command system that is adapted to our new response defense. My immediate response to this is no, and it is certainly the departmental order that appears to have a clear potential for improvement. It is therefore positive that the Ministry of Defence has now taken the initiative to bring together all the provisions on the system of command in a new directive and then to be able to return to the Grand Duchy when that time comes. In this way, the intention of the proposers in the proposal for a representative has also been respected. Let me also make a comment on yesterday's media release on the degree structure of the defense. There could be a few wrong impressions, that now the command is to be ribbed for stars, strips, crowns, etc. Therefore, I cannot stress enough the importance of good cooperation with the civil service organisations when the Defence and Ministry are going to enter and evaluate the command system. If I'm to allow myself to reflect a little bit around a future command system, it's clear that pay has to be decoupled. Another reflection is that the department order, or what one in the future should call the group, must not be thrown out of the defense when they are 35 years old and at their best age. After all, there is an experienced command at the operational and medium level of the response defence in 2011 and in the future will need a great deal. I cannot help but understand that the defence loses valuable competence as a result of today's departmental order. Without being disrespectful, it also seems to me that there has been degree inflation in the defense when a person compares to our allies, or in another way: we have too few Indians and too many chiefs in total in the defense. That's why it's obvious to me that we need a review of today's order of command, but it's important that such a forthcoming review does not become a purely class struggle discussion about under-commissioners and war school officers. It must not be a fight for heads and ears. I therefore look forward to the government returning to Stortinget when the internal work in the Defence and Ministry is completed, so that we can discuss and establish a forward-looking command system adapted to our new response defense.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e469	There is an important debate that is raised by the representatives of the Right in relation to the system of command in Norway. When the Progress Party has chosen not to vote in favour of the proposal that has been put forward by the Right, it is not because we do not see the need for a new command system, but because it is difficult to identify any real disagreement between the proposer and the government in this matter. So it's not necessary to open the doors. The Ministry of Defence’s reply to the Council of State states that the Ministry of Defence has started this work, further in 2009, that if changes to the order system are identified, this will be presented to the Stortinget in the usual way. In addition, the Storting will be invited to discuss the command system at an overall level in the context of the work on a new long-term plan. So we have to be able to say that what the right here is suggesting is to start a work that's already started. Therefore, the Progress Party will recommend the majority position of the Committee on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e478	On the right-hand side, we are very disappointed that we are standing alone in this matter. The time is overdue to put in place a comprehensive command system for the Defence. From the right-hand side, we are not left with the impression that this is turning open doors, rather on the opposite side. It is very high time that we now take over the time we are in, and in that way I just want to say that, when the time for reform is really overdue, it was actually more uplifting to hear the article on behalf of the rapporteur than to read the letter of reply from the department. Of course, the current system as it exists, distributed over a wide range of documents, is not good enough, neither in form nor content. The command system provides both the overall framework and has a significant impact on the daily work of thousands of officers and officers. The right believes that the defence men and women deserve better than the patchwork of arrangements we have to deal with today. The system, which originates from what was called the revised command system, is today more than 27 years old. It has subsequently been adjusted and changed several times, and the last rather complete review was in place in Stortinget for approx. 16 years back. It's a different age today in defence, and that's exactly what the Right Asks us to take into account. What does that mean? This means that we do not have an overview of how the schemes exist today, nor in the ministry as such. Of course, the right has not grasped this proposal out of the loose air. We've promoted it on the basis of a series of meetings with people in the Defense Department who have both shoes on, actually people who also lack a better dialogue with a department that's now working out a new system. Fortunately, the Ministry of Defence appears to see parts of the problem. In its reply to the Committee, the Ministry points out that work has been started on a new Directive which will bring together all provisions relating to the system of command. To the extent that changes to the order system are deemed necessary, this will be presented to the Magnitude in the usual manner. Therefore, the term ‘opening open doors’ may not be the most comprehensive to describe the work being done by the Ministry. "Normal way" is the key here. Unfortunately, the right does not think that there is enough more flotation, adjustment or revision. The Norwegian defense today is different, and has completely different tasks, than just ten years ago. The organisation and the individual officer have different needs, partly other tasks and a completely different working day. Participation in foreign operations, and the tasks assigned to each, are much more specialised than the previous picture. Nordtun, on behalf of the President-in-Office of the Council, was involved in the departmental order system, which must be further developed in the light of experience. There is a system that transcends most other established structures in the world of work and creates a great deal of special needs, in particular related to issues of education and skills enhancement under the service, age limits and pension conditions, etc. – a system that both the Defence Inspectors-General and the former Chief of Defence have pointed forward as a necessary path. Let me just refer to yesterday's announcement in the World Gang: Former Secretary of Defense Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen started a job so that no less than 1,300 officers from the Defense Department, who were also in the Chamber, would lose stars, strippers and crowns. Now this is demented today, but this picture has only created and illustrated a situation with a very heavy corporate image in Defense. The description «heads» was quite good in this context. It just illustrates that even people who want to be in an operational function would like to be released from this in order to move on in terms of degree and remuneration. We have to be willing to do something about this. It must be possible to establish a system that allows a career as a departmental order, where new sub-levels can be advanced. Denmark has put in place such a solution, and this must also provide satisfactory payoffs. On this basis, I refer to the proposal referred to in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e495	Then the representative Ivar Kristiansen addressed the proposal he mentioned.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e498	The transformation of the Defence into a new and modern defence effort has been one of the greatest state-owned changes in recent times. As a natural consequence of migration over many years, we are now summarizing the command system. We already see that changes will be required. The government, like the Storting, is committed to having a good and up-to-date command system adapted to the needs of the Defence. The size shall continue to adopt the main lines of the scheme and the Ministry shall make continuous adjustments within the limits of the size of the scheme. The storing gave its support to the current command system in 1995. Since the introduction of the new command system, the Stortinget has agreed to a number of changes and adjustments to the scheme. The main changes were made as a result of the Bondevik II Government’s proposal for a long-term defence plan 2005-2008 and the subsequent proposal for a new law on defence personnel. Under the current government, only minor changes have been made to the command system, including the reintroduction of the normal margin for the degrees from the sergeant/master to the lieutenant. The Government agrees that the command system is described in many documents. For this reason, the Ministry of Defence has started work on bringing together all the provisions of the order system. We want to put in one document that gives a complete overview. We have received broad support for this initiative from both the Defence Management and the Commanding Organisations. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee supports the government's initiative in this matter. Such an overview will also cover ongoing adjustments made by the Ministry. It will be clear what has been dealt with by the Stortinget and what provisions have been made by the Ministry. The departmental order is an important supporter in the response defense. The Defence Manager has therefore also initiated a review of the Title Commanding System. In all matters relating to the personnel, the Ministry of Defence and I are committed to active and good cooperation with the command organisations – as well as in this work. Therefore, the command organisations are invited directly into the ongoing work and the dialogue is good. In parallel, the Defence is working with a Military Workers Staff Regulations and the Administration of the Missionary System. Command organisations are also directly involved here. I also need to mention the headlines in the media recently about officers who lose pay and grade. Let me make it clear: no officer goes down in grade or pay, and no one loses his job. Part of the job of implementing the defence is also to put in place a human resources structure that is more adapted to the tasks of the defence and is not overrepresented with posts at a level too high. This is a work that started six years ago. We must ensure that competence and experience at the level of performance increase the continuity and flexibility of the use of the command corps. Adjustment of degrees is part of the work that the head of defence is now doing in order to achieve this gradually. I note that the Right's proposal to promote a new comprehensive command system is supported only by the Right's own representatives. The vast majority of the Committee therefore supports the government's approach in this matter. The Ministry plans to complete its work on the overall presentation of the current command system during this spring. The ongoing work will provide the overall and systematic representation of the command system as well as Right-wing demand. If the work concludes with the need for changes to the broad lines of the Order Scheme, this will be presented to the Size Order in the usual manner. In line with the Committee's position, I therefore recommend that no work be started on a new, comprehensive command system at this stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e526	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e529	I thank the Council of State for the answers and what she said in her article. From the right, this proposal has been about far more than bringing together all the provisions on the command in one document – it is an important part of it, because it is not clear today – it is so much about entering into the political substance of this. Is it that we have good enough career paths in Defense today? Should we have more focus on horizontal career paths, not just vertical ones? Should it be like this, as the rapporteur rightly points out in his statement, that we are really pushing out the best competence – when they are at the height of their competence – from the Defence Department? Are we making sure that you can choose lifelong careers in Defense, as the system is designed today? This is not least about the connection between grade and salary. That is what the proposal is intended to do, not only a mere physical set of provisions on the command in one document, but also the substance and content of the command system itself. It is also the case, in the light of the statement that came yesterday, that it indicates, even if it is demented and withdrawn, that there is poor communication between the command organisations. Is it the case that the command organisations are now being included, in effect, on the advice of the design of a new command system?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e538	I think we're all concerned about whether the new response defense is properly built both in terms of – as was said here – the number of chiefs and the relationship between chiefs and Indians. I think it is absolutely central that we review whether we have good enough career paths and whether we should make changes. That's what's my message in the post here today. If changes are made, these changes will be submitted to the Stortinget for discussion and will be done on a thoroughly investigated basis. We have good contact and cooperation with the civil servants' organisations. The command organisations are central to the process both with the Defence and with the Ministry. I think it is absolutely essential that the dialogue on this is going well and thoroughly with the organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e543	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2358]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e559	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines after the intervention by the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e568	I first take up the minority proposal from the Committee, which is behind the Workers' Party, the SV and the Centre's party. Let me first say that an overall committee believes it is important that veterans from international operations have good rights. We must never forget that personnel in international operations are serving on behalf of the Norwegian State. These staff do an important job, often under tough conditions, and it is the responsibility of society and therefore the duty of society to give them the recognition and support they deserve, even after they have returned to Norway. Unfortunately, we have to admit that the great community for decades has neglected its responsibility to care for damaged veterans. We can't be aware of this. Having said that, I would therefore like to stress the importance that this government has actually taken over the policy of the veterans after decades of failure. It is a shared committee position with regard to the proposal from the Progress Party, together with a new proposal from the Right, and the various parties agree to different proposals. This is suitable for confusion. In my view, the future veterinary policy is such a serious issue that we must avoid political games and party markings. For the Workers' Party, it is important that we have a comprehensive veterinary policy with one system that ensures coordinated and coordinated follow-up of individual veterans, including in the case of claims. The weakness of the proposal for a representative is that the proposers initially propose to change both the objective responsibility of Section 12(b) of the Defence Personnel Act with retroactive effect, while also proposing to change the so-called special compensation scheme, so that it takes care of both physical and mental damage that applies both in the past, present and also in the future. If this were to be adopted, we would have two parallel replacement systems. In addition, I would also like to point out that the proposal for amended follow-up obligations for defence challenges our common civil health and social system. We have to recognise that we cannot build a parallel military health and social system in Norway. I would also like to point out that the practice of defence is never to reject veterans who make contact, and that they guide the individual veteran further into the civil health and social system. This is also where we in the media have recently seen deficiencies in the civil system that are supposed to take care of the veterans. All of this just shows that there is a need for a comprehensive scientific policy that is coordinated and coordinated between the civil and military levels. The aim of the Workers' Party is to establish a targeted compensation and follow-up system that corrects irregularities in the existing compensation and compensation system. In addition, we need better coordination and understanding in the civil health and social system of the special challenges facing veterans. Let there be no doubt: the Workers' Party wants a worthy and fair veterans' policy. The government has therefore announced that it will produce its own action plan — ‘Serviced for Norway’, which it calls — on the day of release and on the day of the veter’s arrival on 8 May. The Workers' Party will then be involved in ensuring that we have a comprehensive veto policy, and that all veterans receive both the support and the recognition they deserve.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e589	The representative of Tore Nordtun has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e592	Norway has large military forces abroad. The government is visible at highlighting the importance of the job they do. They are out of Norway fighting for peace, freedom, democracy and human rights. So far, the government and the Progress Party agree. But this costs, and then I'm not just talking about budgets. These are individual ships that we are told with a little too much frequency, about individuals who are suffering psychological damage that is often not revealed long after the soldiers have returned home. We want to focus on this because we demand so much of our soldiers. They represent us with all their efforts at mankind's best. As the law is today, the defense has responsibility only for one year. Thereafter, the soldiers shall move to the normal health system, with all its faults, shortcomings and endless waiting lists. We can no longer think of this. The Progress Party therefore believes that the defence should be responsible for psychological damage for up to five years after the damage has been discovered. The government parties have a kind of formal justification which, in my view, is a form of disclaimer when they oppose the proposals of the Progress Party. What's at risk in this case is when the day comes when the soldiers no longer have the confidence that they will receive an adequate follow-up if they have problems after finishing their duties. Such a lack of trust will eventually go beyond motivation. It will eventually go beyond the will to intervene, and at the end of the day it will affect Norway’s performance in international military operations. Only a few words regarding the reasons given by the government parties for not joining the proposals of the Progress Party. The first argument mentioned is this with retroactive effect. But this has nothing to do with retrospectively. We want some soldiers who have come home to see psychological problems in the future to get an offer from the Defense. It is not a question of establishing any kind of dual health care. It is the defence that is to be responsible for having the soldiers who experience this offer that is sufficient for them. Thus, they should not be referred to a waiting list, but should have the defence resources at their disposal when action is required to repair the damage they have suffered in what is called the service of the State by the Advocate General. If the defense chooses to have its own people implement the measures this is about, or if they make sure that it is done by buying services elsewhere, we shall not interfere in this matter. But what we see as essential is that the defence takes a greater responsibility for long-term mental damage in personnel, and that we do not just refer them to the Norwegian health service, which definitely has no reputation for this type of service.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e607	Would the representative like to make proposals so that they can be discussed?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e610	I'm sorry, President. I would like to address the proposals No. 2-5, which the Progress Party has alone or together with the Christian People's Party, as referred to in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e617	The representative Peter N. Myhre has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e620	First, I would like to commend the rapporteurs for their good proposals and the possibility of taking up an important debate here in Stortinget. This is a matter that is very close. It should just be lacking that not those who risk their lives and health for Norway in surgery, who come home with physical or mental damage, get the follow-up they deserve and need. I would also like to pay tribute to the government, which, with a total collapse in the back, has done a lot of good in the veterans' cause in recent years. There is an important piece of work done, but there is still a good part of the way. The discrimination resulting from the case of veterans who served before 1 January 2010 and veterans who served after 1 January 2010 has become an open wound to the veterans. There have been numerous demonstrations just outside the Stortinget – and elsewhere – shown in the last few months. Discrimination seems totally unfair to those covered by it, and it comes as an additional burden on the top of everything else with which they have to labor, both mentally and physically. The right and the other opposition parties opposed this discrimination when it was introduced. We think it is important to support this proposal, precisely in order to try to correct some of it. That is the main reason why we support the proposal. I would just like to say, both to the President-in-Office of the Council and so far to others who would like to take the floor on that very point, that the fear of experiencing two partially parallel replacement systems is, of course, real today. Today we have two parallel replacement systems, one before and one after 1 January 2010. It's unsustainable for the veterans that it's still like that. It is also important to discuss another part of the proposal, namely the follow-up outside the compensation. In recent years, it has been shown that a follow-up responsibility that extends over a period longer than one year after graduation is absolutely necessary. What is involved in this proposal will be an improvement to the current system. We are also very pleased with the fact that we have received support both from the proposers and from the Christian People's Party that we should have a follow-up responsibility that runs not only from the day of graduation, but from the time of the damage. We have to remember that, especially with regard to many of the mental retardation, it may take a long time before they are discovered. You may have been at home for many years before the damage turns out. Therefore, it is important to have the opportunity to get compensation for the damage that is discovered late. That follow-up has proved to be important. Many veterans go wild in a civil auxiliaries who don't understand their situation and who don't have the special competence to treat the veterans decently and properly every day. One of the factors that often make it particularly difficult to be a veteran in civil auxiliaries is the poor registration procedures that have been revealed in recent months, both for soldiers who have served domestically and for soldiers who have served abroad. As we have seen in many places in the civil auxiliaries, many years may pass before sufferings that have not been inflicted on veterans, but that have been inflicted on people who have not served in the defense, have such a good description that you can easily get help from the civil auxiliaries. You can, for example: use amalgam poisoning as an image on it. It has taken many years for the healthcare system to finally understand what these injuries are and to provide adequate treatment and compensation. In the case of veterans who have served outside, and who have experienced things that none of those who sit and are going to deal with matters, really understand what is involved, it is clear that it would have helped very much if the registration procedures were so good that you could simply say that this is a typical damage that occurs if you serve abroad over such a period or under such conditions. Clearly, it would help significantly. We politicians have a great responsibility. We have a great responsibility, not just to be there when things go well in foreign operations or domestic service. We also have the highest responsibility to be there when things don't go well. We ask women and men in the utmost consequence to sacrifice life or to take life. We ask them to sacrifice their own health in given situations. They then deserve – and this should be lacking – that we make good and decent representations for all those who have experienced damage in various ways in operations. It makes the impression when veterans say that maybe the worst war is the one that has to be fought in the civil auxiliaries when you get home.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e646	I also think it is time for proposals to be made in the Grand Duchy, for there have been many discussions on this issue in recent times. It's about the most fundamental expression of respect and dignity that we as a society can give to those who have served in the Norwegian defence in various types of international operations. In all contexts, where I am listening to a lettering or a review of how a job works in an international operation, there are two considerations left: 1) Keep the staff, 2) Solve the job. Then we also have to have that kind of thinking when we work with them. It clearly shows what should be the most important thing in defence work. And then I'd like to thank the government for taking on this important work of running the veterans' dishes and needs. Here I think we have to admit that decades of bad work are behind us, but of course it has been a change when it comes to reality and Norwegian participation abroad. It is particularly important for young women and men who have participated in foreign operations to carry out their individual dishes in all parts of society. I believe that we have come a long way – through a big message, through this year’s budget proposal – and we are moving on through an action plan that is now being worked on. I would like to say that I know that the Minister of Defence is personally strongly involved in this issue. She has gained a lot of knowledge, and she has not at least had close contact with many who are veterans themselves or relatives of them. So I'll link some comments to this. I think, and my thinking is, that we have to meet both this proposal and other proposals that have come up, with a great deal of humility when it comes to gradually improving the situation of the veterans and correcting them. I think that maybe we'll all be some of that is a reasonable input into it. I have also recorded that many of the proposals that have come up in the media debate and in other ways from the opposition, it is really a broad deal. They're partly introduced, and it's partly notifying that one's working with them. Let me just link some comments to this. Firstly, it is quite obvious that there is a need to look at the compensation schemes, the compensation schemes. It's necessary to go into it. I would also like to mention a special relationship that at least I have been contacted by several people about. There is a particular issue of disability, how we assess it, but also the question of getting practical and other follow-up assistance to the health care system, with Nav, with the State Pension Fund, both for veterans themselves, and for relatives and those around them – creating a contact point and a support device that can be used in such a special situation as is mentioned here. Then there are many people who have quite rightly pointed out that a long-term follow-up is important. I would also like to draw out crisis aid when something special happens, because at least it has been very clear to me that there is a need for clarification between the civil and military sides about the division of responsibilities, and how we are going to make it work. I hear a lot of good stories about how well it works on the civil side. I think we have a little bit to go on here. Then I am open to discuss the responsibility of the defense, how long it will last, etc., but I will refuse to make a change over the table here now. But let's try to discuss it a little bit mildly, what's right here. For me, it is certainly not obvious that it would improve the health follow-up if the defence were to have a five-year responsibility for health, rather than if the health service should have it. One might say a lot about the defense that is not so good with the health service. I have a more positive view of things in the Norwegian health service than any one person here says, but that they might have more good things to do on health follow-up in the health service than in the defense, I think at least there might be a reason to discuss it – to put it that way. But then I don't want to close the debate on what should be the final, how it should be, when it comes to the question of bordering. Finally, there is a need for better coordination of the various follow-up services we have in the field of defence, and there are also other issues that I went into here, which it is important to look at. As the representative Eriksen Soreide has also I heard soldiers say – this is really very depressingly clear – that the most difficult war was the one that began when they returned.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e665	This debate and the debates we have had before on the position of the veterans say something about the change in defence. If we go ten years back in time, it probably wasn't the same focus. It's this year's tenth year we're in Afghanistan, and it's been a huge operation that has affected a lot of individuals who have been down there, and many families. We have a lot of veterans. We get new veterans every day, and very many of the veterans are serving in Defense right now. So I think some of the motto for us in the Bighold, for the government, is how we're going to be able to keep the veterans longer, because the veterans have a lot to add of security, weight and knowledge into the Defense. That's where I think the special forces have shown their way. We've been very concerned about how we're going to be able to have experienced special forces, how we're going to be able to keep them for a long time, and that we have a great age range among those who serve. For it may well be wise that one who is a little bit more adult may be a mentor, a supervisor, in the daily life of one who is a little bit younger. So I want to focus a little bit more on how to keep the veterans longer. So there's three points I want to cover in terms of that. Point 1 is to maintain health, because there is an enormously stressful situation in which many of the women and men are out there. We have to look at how the Sanitary of Defense works. Several have been in the things you have heard, and you should be a little careful with that. But at least some of what you hear is that the health of the defense is not good enough to follow people up during the illness. They're better at morbidity than follow-up, and they're not good enough at what you call an inclusive working life in other contexts, how to follow up those who have health problems. An expression that has come to my ears sometimes is the term ‘afraid of a doctor’. One is afraid to use part of the defence health services, one is afraid to be declared incapacitated — to share mental concerns and to express physical distress. We have to have top-rate soldiers in the field, and if you share your disease picture, you're afraid you won't be allowed to travel to new international operations. It may make sense for the individual soldier in the short term, but in the long term it may reinforce the problems of the soldier. So we have to look at that. Point 2 is to keep the families. Obviously, it's very stressful if mother or father is in a war zone, and there's news in the newsprint regularly and the parents are far away from their child. Keeping an active family policy is the defence of. It is important that in the heavy areas of defence, especially in the inner Troms and in the Østerdalen, there is also a good knowledge of school, PP service and Buffetat and knowledge of how to follow up and address family problems, and that those working in the municipal sector around the family have understanding and knowledge of the situation of the soldiers' families. So point 1 is about taking care of health, point 2 about keeping the family and point 3 about keeping the job. There are many who are concerned about a disease situation – what job situation do I have afterwards if I should be injured, if I should get sick? The special forces have also shown the way, in terms of how to make sure that you have a job to go back to, so that you have the peace to share your concerns. Minister of Defence Grete Faremo has done a lot of good. One of the things that has now been done is that a pilot project has been launched in the Østerdalen in relation to Defence, in relation to Nav, in relation to Bufatat, in relation to the municipalities – how to approach the individual soldier and the family in a comprehensive and coordinated way. One of the things I'm concerned about there, and which I think we need to look even more at, is how we can strengthen mental health protection in the heaviest defence communities, so that soldiers can use a service outside the service path to share their challenges, their problems. It's a fact that many people don't dare to go the usual way of service to share their problems, because you're afraid of their further career. That is why I believe that an important part of that pilot project should also be how we can ensure that sharing health problems is more secure and transparent, so that we can prevent at an early stage. I look forward to the action plan that will be presented on 8 May. Until now, the Minister of Defence has shown a lot of good action, and there are going to be more good action there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e683	The use of military power is the most serious instrument we politicians possess. Sending young women and men into war brings a great deal of responsibility on our part – a responsibility for how we practice and train them, for how we enable them to solve their assignments, and not least for how we take care of them afterwards. That is why it is an important proposal for a representative that we are debating here today. The Christian People's Party has, in several contexts and on several occasions, advocated that we should strengthen our efforts towards the veterans. Norway has 120 000 veterans of war serving the Second World War, from Lebanon, the Balkans and Afghanistan, and it is, in fact, a very large group. That is why it concerns all of us. The Government shall be commended for putting a number of issues on the agenda of the vet report. The challenge, however, is that this message on a number of points is not good enough and does not adequately care for the interests of our soldiers, in my opinion. An important part of the work of our veterans is about the recognition, recognition of the efforts they have made, and the risk they have taken on behalf of Norway. The consequence of this must be that we, as politicians, are doing what we can to strengthen their rights. Should we send soldiers out in sharp international military operations, yes, both our soldiers and their families must have security so that we will take care of them and their interests as best they can when they need it. In our view, the distinction that currently applies to compensation for soldiers who have served before and after 2010 should be lifted immediately. The distinction is both illogical and unfair. The principle of equal compensation for equal damages should apply. The Christian People's Party will strongly urge all parties on the Stortinget to contribute to correcting this injustice. With regard to the amount of compensation to be granted, we also want this to be re-examined and re-examined, including in the Stortinget. Today we know too little about the Norwegian soldiers who have served in international operations. The Christian People's Party has therefore, together with the Progress Party and the Right, previously called for intensified research in this area. It's vital for us to get more knowledge of this. Only in that way can we better dimension both our own health care system and the defense system, so that we can capture those who really need it the most. There are today some good trade unions in war currents in Norway, but not many. In the past, the Christian People's Party has called for us to have a national centre of competence for war streams that our decentralised health care system can use if necessary, because the competence is not great in the civil health system. If Norway is about like our allies, over 10 pst. by those who have served in international operations, they are likely to cause sensitisation. The word is that these are damage that is likely to be discovered and therefore must be treated for a long time after the damage has occurred. The Christian People's Party will therefore support the proposal to extend the obligation to the psychiatric and psychological follow-up of the soldiers to five years after the end of service. Furthermore, it should be such that it is the time of discovery of the damage that becomes rightful in cases where the damage is discovered after the cessation of normal follow-up responsibilities. It is important that all soldiers who have served in international operations have the security that they can contact the Defense at any time for follow-up, because at least there is the best competence in war streams. Norwegian soldiers who have served in international operations are, in their utmost sense, willing to sacrifice their lives in service to Norway, and it imposes deep respect. I hope that together we can give them that recognition and support they deserve. And then some comments on the comments: I think it is positive that SV in a good way wants us to look at the compensation scheme, and also open up to see how the veterans will need some more help from the civil health service. I think a lot can be done here. In the case of war currents, the civil health service has very little competence in this. I think it'll take years to build up maybe some environments. That is why we want a centre of expertise. We think that could be useful for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e709	The left has addressed this matter a number of times, so I don't have to keep any long introduction. But it is important to be told from this pulpit that the greatest sacrifice you can make for any country is to be willing to go to war for the tasks decided by Parliament. I feel that over the last few years’ debate — perhaps this last year’s debate — has helped to change Norway’s position on Norwegian soldiers, and that one realises that Norwegian soldiers are doing an important job for the community. We are not represented in the committee, so I think it is important to take the floor both to explain our vote and also to make some comments. The left will vote in favour of the proposal No. 2, 3, 4 and 5, and what is shown as the setting here today. The reason is that I think there are many good proposals about the discrimination that many have experienced, but also about respect for the job that has actually been done. I also fully agree that there is a need to have much better registration arrangements – registration schemes that make it easier to follow up, but also make it easier to follow up the legal system with the damage it has suffered. We have cases that go today in this particular field that I think should not have been in the legal system, which should have been more solar matters. I agree with the comments of the Right and Christian People's Party that there is a need for follow-up for more than one year. Many who experience severe traumas experience it long after the service is done, and perhaps there are other things in life that make this come back again. That's why it's so important also to have a bigger follow-up over a longer period of time, and a follow-up that's about actually having to push people a little bit to figure out what it is that can be the after-effects. In addition, I would like to say that it is important to have family follow-up. It is important to have a follow-up of children who experience getting their mom or dad home with some life experience that makes them a little different. It is important that children get that explanation, and it is important that wives and husbands get that explanation. And based on all the enquiries I've received, it's also important that the soldiers' mothers and fathers get the follow-up they need when they get the soldiers home, soldiers who actually need a family that can set up, that has resources, and that has the knowledge to do it properly, because very of them will actually do it. One of the psychologists I've talked to working in the Defense Department says we're too bad to prepare, we're too bad to debrief, and we're too bad to follow up. Now I think maybe we've gotten better in the field of debriefing. Maybe we're also better at preparing people before they're sent out. But I think it's important that the defense has a basic tone that's about what will meet them in a war, actually is nothing to germinate about. It's something you should be prepared for. There's something you should not just talk nice about, but you should actually talk the truth about. It's an important challenge for the Defense to do it in a way that makes people mentally prepared for what meets them. So it's that our health care system has little knowledge, which many people have brought up, among other things. Mr Davøy representative. I think that's a huge challenge. We in the Left have tried to carry out some sampling around the country by getting our municipal government representatives to ask how many veterans there are in the municipality. Not in any municipality has so far been able to respond to it by the local government representatives of the Left. So we don't get an overview in any community health care if there's any veterans among the fixed patient they're responsible for. It says a little bit about how our health system is able to take care of them, when they don't even know they're there. And then there are many who have boasted of the government, of the things it has done. I could have said that it does a lot of good, but I can also say, it should just be missing!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e728	I'm happy for the great commitment of the veteran policy. We are now in the final question of the action plan for veterans, which will be presented on 8 May. I see the debate as far as broad support for the work of the action plan and a reinforced effort for the veterans. The impatience of the parties here in Stortinget I tolerate well, as long as we share the recognition that now, after several decades of negligence, the situation warrants joint effort. We are now implementing ongoing veterinary measures in both rights, recognition and follow-up. It's a social responsibility to take care of the personnel and their relatives. A substantial part of the responsibility of the defence is close follow-up after return in order to be able to capture and prevent damage. The supply from different sectors needs to be seen in a coherent way. The five-year follow-up requirement of the opposition challenges our health and social system. It is the civil health service that has and should have the primary responsibility for – including for injured veterans. Good use of resources and expertise speaks against the establishment of a special health service for veterans. I believe it is now important to establish a system that ensures coordinated and coordinated follow-up of the individual veteran. This requires a more flexible arrangement of the services provided by other social sectors. Therefore, in January of this year, the pilot project Østerdalen was established. The project is a collaboration between the Defence, Nav, Bufetat and the municipalities of Elverum and Åmot, and is to be fully operational by the veterand day of this year. I have also noticed that the majority of the Committee has proposed that follow-up responsibilities be adapted so that the time of discovery becomes rightful. The professional community states that the symptoms of stress reactions most often occur within one year of the end of the service. Anyway, no veterans are being rejected by the Defense. The veterans can contact the Defence for advice and guidance at any time, and we are constantly working on strengthening the quality of the offer. Therefore, current practice carries out the intention of such a proposal. For me, it is also important that the veterans have a fixed point of contact, one door they can contact, with a coordinated and competent device. That's why the defense is now evaluating all of the units involved in veterinary follow-up. The apparatus must be sufficiently high in the organisation with good access to the defence management and be directed by a high-level person. The majority agreed to a significantly enhanced protection of defence personnel in foreign operations, with effect from 1 January 2010. A statutory objective responsibility for any damage and disease was established. For personnel who have served before 1 January 2010, a compensation scheme for psychological damage was established. For other types of injury or disease, these personnel have been covered by professional harm legislation. Since the autumn of last year, a number of measures have been taken to simplify and clarify the procedure, and the State pension fund is working with this in a targeted way. In addition to a faster procedure, experience shows that the veterans have a higher disability rate than that underlying the scheme. Therefore, the compensation payments are also higher than expected. The government has followed up on this and has agreed to a 100 million increase in the grant for the scheme. kr for 2010. The government is continuously developing the compensation scheme. The Ministry of Defence will use the experience so far when we evaluate the scheme. I look forward to presenting the Government's action plan. I will continue to work purposefully, in cooperation with the organizations, to ensure that all the veterans receive both the support and the recognition they deserve. However, after lifelong experience, we must not forget that the veterans are also a strong resource, whether they go back to work in defence or in other civil service, or that they can tell us how best to improve the work we are now in the middle of.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e754	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e757	I am happy to hear that there is now finally an action plan after the vet report was submitted, i.e. it comes two years after the notification. It's a good thing it's coming now. There is nothing in the answers to the Minister of Defence that suggests that the two main issues raised by this proposal, namely follow-up responsibility and equal compensation for equal damage, are part of the action plan that is now coming. A lot indicates – based on the information we have – that it was long intended that everyone would get equal compensation for equal damage regardless of whether the damage had happened before or after 1 January 2010. It wasn't like that. That is why I wonder if the Council of State can be so kind as to explain to the Storting why the government believes it is right that a soldier who loses his leg on 29 December 2009 will get half of the compensation for a soldier who loses his leg on 1 January 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e764	It is true that the action plan is now coming on 8 May. That we have, however, launched a number of actions along the way, I hope the representative has both noticed and is satisfied with. It has been important to address support and recognition measures in the rapid follow-up to the Communication addressed here in the Storting two years ago. The action plan will put these measures into full use, and we will launch new measures. With regard to the compensation scheme and the new compensation scheme, I have said in the past that it is not easy to compensate for decades of negligence and provide fair treatment in cases that have been able to refer to different parts of the Norwegian legislation. That's why we're going to follow these arrangements closely, to see if there's any way to improve the solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e771	My question goes a little bit in the same direction. It is good that the action plan comes in May. It is good that the Council of State says that no veterans should be rejected in Defense. It's positive. At the same time, there is this injustice in the compensation system, and this with closer follow-up in case of sensitised injuries, as many veterans have also said they are not satisfied with, as it has been stated. The follow-up to the action plan is – as I understand it – a follow-up to the vet report as such. At the same time, we hear from at least one of the government parties here today – if I understood EN correctly – that they believe that it will be possible and desirable to see if any changes need to be made to these arrangements. My question is: how long will this action plan go before evaluating it and assessing changes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e782	There are several questions that, of course, will have to be followed on an ongoing basis. In the follow-up responsibility that the Defense has formally for one year, however, we have stated that there is no one who will be rejected if they ask the Defense for help after one year has passed. When in our country – with the challenges we have overall in the area of health – we want to use resources as efficiently as possible, and today we see problems in splitting resources between the ordinary health system and the defence system and therefore want the veterans to have their health needs resolved in the general health system, I think it is right to point out that we need to take time to see if there is anything in the solution we have chosen that needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e789	First, I record that the Council of State does not answer Eriksen Soreide's question as to why there should be discrimination in compensation between people who are injured before and injured after the government set the cut date. State councils will have to re-assess whether she will answer it. My other question is: In connection with the follow-up to today's case, we have received individual cables on the representatives' tables. The Council of State was itself concerned with the concept of «follow-up». There are single examples of people who are so badly injured that they are unable to care for their own interests, who have to deal with the system – the Nav system and other beings. Will the Council of State ensure that systems are so robust that the worst-damaged veterans get their own kind of follow-up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e796	Very familiar, we have not decided matters after the new compensation scheme. But when we see that matters finally come under the new compensation scheme, it illustrates to me two things: that we have veterans who have had to wait too long for a correct settlement from the Norwegian state, and that they have had to struggle with different parts of the law and have not been heard about their psychological damage. If we also have to come up with new measures to ensure that the solutions are good enough for our veterans in the light of what we will gradually experience with the new compensation system, we will have to come back to. But what I think has been important now is to ensure that the issues that have been dealt with under the new compensation scheme that was put in place in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e804	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e809	In such a debate, I feel that a lot of fine words are being said, but I am being overestimated that the Council of State and the majority of governments are taking this matter sufficiently seriously. I'm a veteran myself. I've been in Lebanon three times. I've already told you that from Stortinget's pulpit. But after I told that story and the experiences we had down there, I also got a lot of feedback. I have received feedback from scientists who wear after 30 years, who get post-traumatic diagnosis 27 years after the end of the service, and who fight the defense and the civil health system, who do not understand any of the challenges they face. I have also received feedback from the relatives to the conquistadores who have taken their own life. What also strikes me, is that several of the know-how who have taken their own life, have not been within either the civil health system or the defense. The defense has not managed to capture them, nor have they been captured by the civil health community. These are those who have the biggest problems, and it's important that one is much more on the offensive than one is today. I want to read out a message I got: "Thank you for sharing yourself. I really appreciate that. After about three years on the ground abroad, I have ‘only’ sent off a coffin with my buddy’s fall. I say "only" because so far we've been spared the big losses compared to comrades under other flags. But we lose when we get home. A coffin I've sent home, but a dozen of my comrades didn't survive anyway. It's the Defence Memory Day today. There burns light in my home, as it certainly burns light also with you. I remember those who never came home, but I remember, and all those who die in their battle long after they are at home." There's a hurry to get something done about this. We can't postpone decisions, we have to get a better follow-up of our veterans. If we don't get a follow-up from them and see how it's been with those who came home 10–20–30 years ago, we'll also be far worse off solving the challenges associated with those who come home today and tomorrow. We must get a far better offensive follow-up. We also need equal compensation for equal damage, and it must be possible to get this compensation without having to go to a new battle – a new war – when one has returned.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e825	The proposals discussed here today are not really about treating veterans better than others. It is essentially a matter of treating them at least as well, a kind of limit to dignity that they must experience in the face of a civil auxiliaries who may not understand — or have the prerequisites to understand — what they have been exposed to. One of the areas experienced as a major additional burden for the veterans is the different compensation for equal damage before and after 1 January 2010. Many, fortunately, of the 120,000 or so veterans we have in Norway never feel that they are injured when they are in surgery, or that they are injured. That's very good. But for that part of the veterans who actually experience damage, it feels unfair, unfair and additional. I must say that it surprises me that the Minister of Defense here in Stortinget on direct questions is not able to answer why the government believes it is right that a soldier who on 29 December loses his leg because he is running on a road bomb should be treated differently and get half of the compensation for the soldier who on 1 January experiences exactly the same thing. To me it's incomprehensible. For soldiers serving, it is incomprehensible. For the veterans it is incomprehensible and it should not be necessary for veterans to experience that discrimination. As long as it is not the government's intention to provide a justification for why this discrimination is correct and fair – it must be assumed that the government sees it as it exists – it also seems that it is difficult to do anything about it. Out here on July 5, last year, many veterans demonstrated – perhaps for the first time – against that discrimination. Then several of the government parties were outside and said that we should take a closer look at this. Since then, nothing has happened. When the action plan for veterans comes on 8 May, there is nothing to suggest that neither the question of follow-up responsibility nor equal compensation for equal damage will be part of the action plan. It's disappointing, but it's also quite surprising, because that means that all the actions and all the discussions we've had here in the hall with a view to getting to a better order, almost seems to have been in vain. If everyone in this Chamber today could vote according to their conscience and conviction, I am absolutely sure that the proposals would have a majority. I actually think there's something many in here are burning for, but to which, for various party political reasons, they can't say yes. Finally, I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that the right naturally supports the proposals No. 2-5.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e838	When I have to take the floor, it's because the compensation system that we're discussing is a system that only covers the psychological damage. When I hear the representative Eriksen Soreide refer to an example of physical damage, I am not sure how that example was used as an illustration of the inequality in the two schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e843	Ine M. Eriksen Soreide has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e846	As the Minister of Defence will have seen, we, together with the other parties, propose that this system also include physical damage. That is, when physical damage comes in, discrimination will be exactly the same because the government does not want to change the system. But we can use another example: a soldier who gets post-traumatic stress syndrome found on December 29th, will get half as much compensation as a soldier who gets to see exactly the same suffering on January 1st, 2010. I just have to stress once again that since the government and the Minister of Defence cannot give any reason why this inequality is right, I must also take into account that they believe it is reasonable and that that is why they have introduced it. But there is no one other than the government who believes that this discrimination is reasonable. We're looking at the demonstrations from veterans. We're looking at the organizations. We're looking at relatives -- families who experience this injustice on the body. So whether it's a physical or mental injury, it's just as unreasonable that there's going to be a difference between whether you've done it before or after 1 January 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e853	By extending the compensation scheme for mental damage that we have today, the discussion on limiting the measure of compensation for physical damage to 35 G is also addressed. Existing legislation would provide different legal bases for the measurement of compensation. I'm not sure at all that our veterans are served with the discussion of including physical damage in the compensation scheme that was established in order to capture the psychological damage for which it was not possible to be compensated, as our other law was and is designed. There was some background to the new compensation scheme that came into force on 1 January 2010, which admits liability regardless of the type of injury – on an objective basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e858	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2359]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e874	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 70 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 25 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from the Minister of Foreign Affairs within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e885	I allow myself to use the word ‘Mark day’ for the current treatment of the part-line contract, or as the case is called, ‘consent to the ratification of the Agreement of 15 September 2010 between Norway and Russia on Maritime Demarcation and Cooperation in the Barents Sea and the Arctic’;» After more than 40 years of negotiations, we are now finally ready to say yes to the negotiated agreement where Norway and Russia share a total sea area of 175 200 m2 in nearly two equal parts. It is the view of the entire Committee that the agreement concluded will be beneficial for both nations and contribute to further stability in the area of the Barents Sea and the Arctic Ocean and between Norway and Russia. Many questions have been asked: why the agreement is now in place, what has been Russia’s motive for saying yes now, and why Norway believes that the agreement we are concluding has produced the best results for Norway. Why has Norway not adhered to the principles of maritime law and international law that the central line principle should be applied? Why have we chosen to bend off, and is it not that deviations from the carrying and recognised mid-line principle have shifted the boundary unnecessarily westwards with the result that Norway may have given off enormous values? Well, it is the clear conclusion of the Committee and of the Right that the agreement reached is based on the rules of international maritime law for maritime demarcation and is clear within the provisions and instructions of international maritime law. We have taken note of the agreement reached in 2006 to seek a separate solution for the demarcation of the Senger fjord region – an agreement resulting from an agreement in 2007. The 2008 Idea Declaration is also a background for the close cooperation and discussion between both countries on legal issues in the Arctic Ocean. The interpretations of the Court of Justice, and not least the relationship with the existing significant differences in the length of the coasts of the Russian flag, defend, in sum, a border correction westwards relative to a calculated centreline. I would therefore like to state that the negotiated outcome presented will be a great pleasure for both parties, which is an important principle in any form of conclusion of the agreement. The agreement will further simplify the management of the Barents Sea and will allow for future stable border settlements in the Arctic Ocean. The agreement does not affect our swallowing policy or Norwegian authority exercise on the island group or in the fishing protection zone. The grey zone disappears with the temporaryity and limitation of grey zone management. New provisions and policies are being introduced in an internationally interesting and significant maritime area where, in particular, two aspects of the text of the agreement have received considerable attention, of course, the fisheries management and the management of petroleum. The Committee is very clear on stressing that the good fisheries management we have had in the Barents Sea should be continued. The established institutions of this fisheries policy cooperation shall continue and develop. Of course, the Norwegian-Russian Fisheries Commission must continue to exist. The Committee cannot see, in any way, that significant factors resulting from the conclusion of the agreement would have a negative impact on fisheries cooperation. Allocation of allowances and stock targets will have to be determined as before, and in order to underline a matter of course: it would still be very reasonable for catch quotas to be taken for both countries where at any time is the most appropriate and sensible – as in the past – which means that Russian catches are also in the future taking part of their quota on the Norwegian side of the border, and in some cases vice versa. The agreement provides for the removal of lids that have been applied to any petroleum activity in the area for more than 30 years. There are significant international expectations of which petroleum deposits may be concealed in the area. There is every reason to expect that significant activities will be undertaken on both sides of the border to monitor and investigate the area. The Committee underlines this clearly. Furthermore, the agreement is very clear on the assumptions that will apply to the management of the site, where, in any event, very stringent environmental requirements are to be imposed. The area is one of the world’s most important breeding areas for highly important species of fish, species which weigh heavily economically both for Russian and Norwegian fishing, which are important prerequisites for settlement on both sides of the border. Furthermore, the agreement is very clear and thorough in relation to any petroleum deposits. The rules applicable to the exploitation of cross-border petroleum fields are well defined. The agreement on petroleum issues opens up joint exploitation and is very clear on the management of possible cross-border occurrences, which should also lead to enhanced Norwegian-Russian petroleum cooperation in the north. Therefore, in the view of both the Committee and the Right, it is very important that Norway knows its visit time when the agreement is being finalised today in the United Kingdom and subsequently in the Duma of Russia. In any case, there is nothing to suggest that we should not be as busy as Russia in terms of the need to identify and investigate the area within the sectors and opportunities that are opening up. Ratification of the part-line agreement opens a new chapter in our north-eastern policy. The agreement provides significantly greater national and international attention in the north. The steps already taken in the north of a more open border with Russia are important depots in this context, although there is still a long way to go before one can establish that people-to-people cooperation is functioning smoothly. However, if dynamism is to develop further, cooperation needs to be further developed. The population on both sides of the north border expects and demands that the authorities of both countries open up the possibilities and scope of action provided by the agreement. This should include, inter alia: indicate that Norwegian government functions in both fisheries, management, safety, petroleum and industrial development are or will be in place in the north to meet this future. In addition to the part-line agreement, we will in future be able to see a significant increase in activity in the Barents Sea. Many have desires and expectations, for example, a change in the pattern of international shipping may also come into place in a short time. As expected, the opening of the north-east side of the voyage will take over a significant part of the shipping routes of the international merchant fleet. The northern maritime route will also provide new regional transport solutions. New sailing patterns for parts of the northern sea route will also open up intermodal transport solutions linked, inter alia, to: Russian river transport and rail with the requirements this will impose in the areas of safety, preparedness, surveillance and control both on the Norwegian and on the Russian side. The concluded part-line agreement between Norway and Russia will be an example for other nations, in particular where disputes exist. The agreement is also a victory for international international law and maritime law. Both countries accept the existence of international traffic rules which, in such contexts, provide solutions to the setting of borders, which will contribute to the flexibility and opening up of resource use. Of course, all the borders in the Arctic have not been established with the ratification of today's agreement. Nevertheless, the sharing line agreement could contribute to the simplification of the road further in these sensitive areas, which is guaranteed to be of interest to the other nations bordering the Arctic Ocean. There has been a parallel Norwegian-Russian treatment in the context of the contractual treatment. We are finishing today from the Norwegian side with the landfill treatment. I don't know about the treatment procedure in Russia. In any case, the Committee is not aware that there is something that would require a more difficult Russian treatment of the agreement than the job we have had and have in Stortinget. The agreement has an authorised political foundation under it in Russia. In any case, there is every reason to give credit to the many who have contributed over the years to the fact that we are getting this agreement in place today. It is a good and thorough craft that has been done, both on the Norwegian and on the Russian side. Many good and skilled forces have contributed to the implementation of the agreement as well as to the achievement and the setting of new tracks for international maritime law.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e925	Today, when the Storting ratifys the Barents and Pole Sea demarcation and cooperation agreement, the final sentence for the last outstanding border issue between Norway and Russia is set. Therefore, today, perhaps, is the very day of the whole of this magnificence that best deserves the term «historical day». The sub-line agreement represents many things, but not least it confirms constructive cooperation between two countries in the north, which are very different in many ways. Norway and Russia have once again shown that they have managed to reach agreement on a demanding issue, even though the path to the agreement that is currently on the table has been long. The agreement between Norway and Russia shows that it is possible to resolve difficult challenges between neighbouring countries peacefully and in line with international law. It's an important signal from our part of the world. The government has placed great emphasis on further developing the good neighbourhood with Russia. These are relationships that are built up over a long period of time, and where the Nordic counties and people-to-people cooperation have played a central role from the late 1980s. The establishment of the Barents region at the beginning of the 1990s has paved the way for ever closer cooperation in emerging areas, from border crossing, business and indigenous peoples to the part-line agreement, which is on the map today. In other words, the Barents Sea/Polish divideline agreement is a result of the relationships built between Norway and Russia over time. I also do not believe that the government's active North-Area effort in the last five years has been detrimental to the result that has now been achieved – to put it that way. I would like to take this opportunity today to pay tribute to the foreign minister and his people for the work that has been done in the negotiations on the part-line agreement, and also send a greeting to the former governments who have kept up with this very laborious work. The present agreement clarifies the boundaries of the entire formerly disputed area. The importance of creating a clear and predictable framework for jurisdiction and law enforcement in this area can hardly be overestimated. It offers new opportunities for cooperation and development both within the administration and industry, and not least for the Nordic part of the country. The negotiations have shown the particular economic importance of living resources in the Barents Sea for both countries and their coastal fishing communities. Furthermore, the importance of ensuring the respective fishing opportunities of the parties along the coast has been demonstrated. Cooperation between Norway and Russia in the fisheries sector has been good for decades. It is, in fact, the area in which Norway has cooperated most closely with our neighbour in the east, not least through the Norwegian-Russian Joint Fisheries Commission, which has ensured the sustainable management of the large cod stock in the Barents Sea. It is by no means obvious when you see how fish species after fishing are fished down in the rest of the world. That is why it is very important that Norwegian-Russian fisheries cooperation be further developed and continued, and that is why the agreement is also in place. Let me stress that now that the agreement is in place, the opportunities for petroleum activity in a new area also open up. It is important in itself, and it is also important to have provisions on how to proceed if occurrences extend across borders. It should also be noted that the parties stress the importance of efficient, responsible and environmentally sound management of petroleum resources. It is gratifying and historic that the agreement is now in place, and that an overall increase is behind it. It has taken over a generation to put this agreement in place. Now it is up to us and the next generation to make use of the possibilities offered by this agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e944	I will also be allowed to join the post of both the case rapporteur and the representative Pedersen and the honour that has been given to the government and the many who have worked to get the contract in place. With regard to the border issue, there is probably no other single matter in which I have experienced the question over several years: When can we expect an agreement with the Russians? I've always been equally ignorant, until the news burst. That was so good. It was also good craftsmanship from the government. It was good to see that it was the job for many years, and that we came out. Now I would like to say that border clearance – that awareness has probably been under many people too – is about more than just the ability to operate within a given physical limit. Now this agreement is an expression of normalisation of the neighbourhood – including with Russia – as it is with our other neighbours. We move from closed borders, mistrust and more or less rational scepticism to more transparency, important partnerships – the Norwegian-Russian fisheries cooperation has been mentioned – and above all trust. It has been interesting, after it became known that we had an agreement, to record that there has been an interest in and concern among other Arctic states and several other countries about the fact that after so many years Norway and Russia came to an agreement on an infected border issue. It is positive that we can draw attention to the outside world that Norway and Russia have such good cooperation on important issues, and that we, for example, are in the field of drugs. borders, has solved problems that Denmark/Greenland has not solved vis-à-vis Canada and the United States. With regard to dissolving in the Arctic, Norway and Russia are in the driver’s seat. The border dispute that we are now putting behind us allows for a new chapter in Norwegian-Russian cooperation. Now the challenge is to realise the opportunities in the area. It has been pointed out by the two who have spoken before me. Because it's natural to assume that our neighbor in the east wants activity. Then it's important that we don't go after ourselves, that we don't just act and react to what's happening, and that the premises for, for example. petroleum activity, standards, is added by others than us. We should take the utmost initiative, be present, drive progress with Russia. It is known that we are in important partnerships on the Russian side, but there should also be activities parallel to the Norwegian side that show that we are using the area, and that we can be involved in the development – not least in view of the infrastructure that will eventually have to be in place to hopefully be able to pick up or sell out some of the resources that we have to expect in the area. Then we have to take political decisions that put Norway in the driver’s seat, not least to the advantage of the country that is closest to this border area, but also of Norway as a whole. As far as other areas of cooperation are concerned, I believe that a lot of energy has now been used on this border issue, which can now be put aside, and that energy can be channelled into other activities. The talks that the Foreign Affairs Committee, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and other Councils have with their Russian colleagues can deal with a much wider field. We know we're already on our way. There's a lot going on. But it's an untapped potential that I just want to encourage the government to work on and make sure that we get as close and normalized a neighbourhood with Russia as possible, to enjoy the inhabitants of the north and the rest of the kingdom.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e959	I came up with something when I sat here. I read maybe a year ago, or last year, an article online based on the use of what I would call today's most widely used method tools in popular science, namely Google search, which showed that the use of the word "historical" had risen sharply in recent years, and that a particular number of politicians used it. But I feel that today in this case we have to forgive each other, and we will be willing to forgive the use of it – even if there may have been inflation in it otherwise. This is an incredibly important and important national case that has found a good solution. It is also important for the Committee to be in agreement behind the vote. I think that's because she points to vital, national interests further in this, because in a good and nuanced way she addresses the challenges that we, together with Russia, still want in these areas, and at the same time describes the possibilities that lie there. Finally, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Prime Minister and others who have done a brilliant job with this, both current and previous governments – and with a slightly fast counting here at least ten foreign ministers. It is a good group of people who have been sitting for a long time and working on these questions and are an important reason why a good solution has been found, namely the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, other departments, external offices and the research environment we have built up over this in time. I think this case well illustrates that in order to get on with these kinds of questions, a high level of competence needs to be built up on the questions, be especially persistent and have an ability to produce ideas and be creative on the go. It's been so popular the conversation I'm always hearing in the jingle on the radio, about faceless bureaucrats. We have a lot of bureaucrats in Norway, and most of them are very good. The bureaucrats are them, but they're definitely not faceless. On the contrary, they have been important to find a solution to an important question like this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e970	The border between Norway and Russia has always been a peaceful frontier. The existing sub-line agreement resolves the main outstanding issue between Norway and Russia. This is the biggest step that has been taken in Norwegian foreign policy for many years to ensure that the border between us and our neighbor in the east will continue to be peaceful. The work on the negotiations has been going on for over 40 years. The agreement is thus a result of many years of persistent work by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and priorities carried out by many Norwegian governments. The offensive Northern Region action of the current government and the high priority of the subject area have been one important contribution to achieving the objective of clarifying the border issues in the north. In the Centerpartiet, the broad North Region bet for the government has had a lot of support. The agreement is a victory for the Norwegian position on international cooperation. Norway has long foreshadowed the belief that negotiations and dialogue can lead to major political breakthroughs even in difficult and complex issues. The borderline between Norway and Russia on the Barents Sea and the Arctic Sea has raised major and complex issues. And the fact that the border issue has been resolved peacefully by diplomatic means is evidence that the Norwegian approach to foreign policy has been successful. The way Norway and Russia have solved the border issue can serve as a model for other countries facing similar challenges. The focus on international law has been central to the negotiation process. This has been a force. As a small state, we will always be able to benefit from cooperation between states within the framework of international laws and regulations. Norway has played a major role in the development of marine law for many years. By signing this agreement, we see that the efforts we have made by developing the law of the sea have once again been of great importance. The northern sea areas are resource-rich areas. The borderline has opened up new opportunities for Norwegian business and for industrial development in our northernmost part of the country. For the Centre Party, it is important to use the possibilities that open up in the wake of the sharing line agreement to ensure the development of industry in the north and the management of marine resources that have a positive impact on terrestrial communities. Norway deserves to have the best possible relationship with Russia, and we deserve Russia to have a positive development. The sub-line agreement improves the conditions for maintaining a good relationship with Russia and for areas in the north on both sides of the border to experience economic and social development. Recently, we have seen many signs that cooperation with Russia is moving in a positive direction. Last year's summit between Russia and NATO in Lisbon marked a new spring in cooperation between Russia and the rest of Europe. This is in line with Norwegian wishes. Russia and NATO share many common challenges and interests, which enables us to cooperate on important issues and which can lead to increased stability in a time of other major upheavals. In Lisbon, a major step was taken in the right direction of increased cooperation with our main alliance partner and our biggest neighbour. Another very specific issue that shows the positive development in the neighbouring relationship between Norway and Russia is the agreement on the simplification of travel for border residents, signed last year. The border residence certificate facilitates increased contact between Norway and Russia by allowing residents in the areas of Norway and Russia less than 30 km from the border to apply for border residence certificates. All in all, we have a lot to enjoy working with Russia. In a period of major economic and power upheavals affecting world policy, these advances can lead to increased stability and economic development in our part of the world. It is with great pleasure that we in the Centre Party today vote in favour of the negotiated part-line agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e989	The sharing line agreement we are dealing with today is, in a double sense, frontier-setting and of a rare format – it has to be allowed to be said. This is probably due to both willingness to stand by and patience among the negotiators, but above all it is an expression of political climate change, not least in Russia. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, there are at least five good reasons why this is a frontier agreement. Firstly, the agreement is historic. It marks the finish line after a 40-year negotiation process between Norway and Russia. Secondly, the agreement is great. The boundary line we're talking about is pretty close to the distance from Kristiansand in the south to Hammerfest in the north, i.e. almost all of mainland Norway along the way. Thirdly, the agreement is stabilising. It confirms that Norway and Russia have agreed on the main outstanding issue between our two countries throughout the post-war period. Fourthly, the agreement is promising. It opens up rich opportunities for North cooperation on resources, business, jobs and public relations across our common border. With possible oil and gas deposits and also a possible opening of the north-east pass, the strategic importance of this area will be reinforced – and not weakened – over time. Fifthly, the agreement is also an international signal. It shows that disputes can be resolved in accordance with international law and after peaceful negotiations. I want to join Helga Pedersen and congratulate the government – and also previous governments that have helped us ratify this agreement. Let me also pay tribute to the people in the office who have been negotiating for years and have never quite been able to know if you could crown this with the winner we see today. The basis for this demarcation agreement in the Barents Sea and the Arctic Ocean is the development of international maritime law. Not least, the 1982 United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea is very central. Norwegian dealers were also very central at the time. What they have achieved has basically shown its significance through what we are discussing today. The solution that has now been achieved is also well within the framework of modern principles of international law for maritime demarcation. With a little side view of the sacred writing, we might say that there's something salomonic about this agreement. The battle has been about an enormous sea area, of 175 000 km2, and the line that is now being drawn divides this area into two roughly equal parts. The solution appears to be balanced. The border is drawn between what would result from the parties’ initial positions — Norway’s central line principle and Russia’s sectoral line principle. Both Norway and Russia are coastal states. It resonates internationally when we can agree on a dividing line in an area that is so rich in resources. And it gives a special dimension to the agreement, in my opinion, that it is concluded between states of quite different size – Russia as one of the world's largest countries, and Norway, to quote Lars Korvald in its time, as a small country in the world. But in the maritime context, both are actually major powers. Now we both have a responsibility to cooperate on responsible management of resources near the new frontier line. Many, as I have mentioned, have contributed to the marathon race that today can be crowned with a victory. In these WikiLeaks times, there is a small episode: the former Prime Minister Bondevik and President Putin once walked together on a visit to Russia, and the part-line negotiations were opened. By chance, they just went – after talking about this – into a historic church building. There, Bondevik Putin asked that he would contribute to the conclusion of the negotiations before he left as a Russian top politician. And Putin said, "I promise, and it's a promise I make while I stand on a sacred, ecclesiastical basis." That's the deal we can make today. So once again, congratulations on what's been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1020	As an old history teacher, I would also like to say that this day is historic, but the great consensus in the debate may not make the debate historic. It's kind of hard to be a number. 7 on the list of speakers when we all agree as we are. But I would also like to take the opportunity to congratulate the government, congratulate Norwegian foreign bureaucracy and congratulate the former governments who have worked on this matter. The last time we were a little close to finding a solution was the year I was Russian – in 1988, and you have to admit that is starting to be a few years ago, so it is a good job that has been done after that. There are two aspects that I want to raise. One is that the climate change we are fighting will open up many opportunities in this area too, and it is a great responsibility for Norway to manage the property liability that we have here, where we will be able to enforce both our authority and security in a very large area. It is a major challenge for Norway as a nation, and we need to take it up front, because we have great opportunities to develop further in the future. The second spectrum I feel a little committed to as a liberal, also because we have close contact with our sister party in Russia, and the party leader who comes to our national meeting now in April. I would say that sails if we have a good relationship with Russia, and sails if Russia is a good neighbour to Norway, among good friends one should also dry to point out faults. And sail if we have now a fine deal with a great nation, I think it's important that Norway uses the opportunities one has to point out weaknesses in democracy and prosecute human rights violations, which is at least easy for me to see, which follows my sister party so closely in Russia. I think that should have been said today, too. Finally, I would like to say to Mr. Vegar Solhjell that it is never the fault of the bureaucrats that they act faceless. It's just the bureaucrats' leadership that makes bureaucrats faceless, and it's not a responsibility to them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1031	I think it's a coincidence, but it's quite eloquent, that in Oslo center these days there's an exhibition called Borderlines, and it's made up of old border posts for the Norwegian-Russian border in the north. That exhibition can be seen a little further down, in Spiker Soupa, and you can see it in the center of the town of the Church, where I was able to open it last week. So it's the old border posts that were on land. It is also the artist Morten Traavik who has made this installation, and it is the genuine old border posts. Now we can probably say that Norway and Russia have a border from 1826, and we get a sea border from 2010. The agreement on maritime demarcation and cooperation in the Barents Sea and the Arctic – that is the full name of the agreement, better known as the part-line agreement – was signed on 15 September last year after negotiations for nearly 40 years. Today is of course of great importance. The agreement is dealt with in Stortinget, and Stortinget will hopefully give its consent to ratification. Then we wait for the Russian equivalent treatment. As far as I know, the process is in the path. The full parallelity has not been practicable, so we have a small boat length in front. But the signals from Oslo are likely to be noticed. I would like to thank the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee, the case rapporteur and the chairman for a good, thorough and effective treatment, and for a very good and instructive attitude and treatment of the proposition. I believe that the work done here in Stortinget, in a customary way, strengthens the agreement, and that it stands high by having had such a wide opening up. It has been said here, but it should also be said from the government that this agreement is historic, because it solves the biggest outstanding bilateral issue between Norway and Russia – where the maritime demarcation should go. I also agree with all the reviews given by the agreement in the hall earlier. I think they've been good. We are clarifying the precise boundaries of the Norwegian and Russian zones and the continental shelf throughout the Barents Sea and the Arctic Ocean. The agreement thus provides legal clarity and predictability in the area in which we are engaged, which is important for ensuring stability. And it is true that this agreement can be seen as an introduction to a new era of Norwegian-Russian cooperation. With this delimitation in place, existing cooperation will be strengthened. New areas of cooperation are being opened up with regard to resources, business, transport and the environment, to mention a few, and not least, possible findings of drifting cross-border petroleum resources could trigger a significant cooperation potential. The agreement will promote growth and development in the north while strengthening our good neighbourly relationship with Russia. And as many people here have pointed out – it is an important side effect – the agreement sends an important signal to the rest of the world about the weight of Norway and Russia that coastal states attach to the law of the sea. The agreement thus contributes to the emergence of this region as a peaceful region, where issues of dispute are resolved in negotiations based on international law. A few years ago, a series of dotted lines were found in the map of Norway and the sea areas. It indicated that they were not finally drawn. Now all lines are straight, all dotted lines are drawn as whole lines, as it should be. So it's giving rise to a whole bunch of possibilities. But I am concerned about highlighting the following in a day like this, because we are meeting in the international community with many questions about how Norway should use its opportunities: we are going to do so responsibly, but it also triggers a number of significant obligations, being a coastal state in the north, being responsible for search and rescue in the area that is at our disposal, responsible resource management of renewable and non-renewable resources, and in close cooperation with other countries, among them, of course Russia. And then it's important to say that the line itself doesn't trigger activity and cooperation and value creation. That's what our decisions, business, society's commitment do. It's not going to be trouble-free in all areas either, because we're going to figure it out with a developing neighbor who has a system and a management and a culture that can be different from ours. In a wide range of areas now, where we see great progress in the form of border crossings, visa applications, facilitations in many ways, we also meet a Russian system that is demanding to deal with. We will also be able to talk about this in clear terms in terms of cooperation potential. But we have a better starting point than ever, and I think it's right to say as of February 2011 that never has that cooperation been better than it is today. Then, for my part, I would like to thank the Stortinget, the Committees of the Stortinge and the parties of the Stortinge, who have been very united around the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the negotiators, and the fact that they could also live with ignorance, until the last moment actually, as the representative, Höglund said, was a great strength. I feel as responsible for the last five and a half years that we have had broad support in Stortingen for the course we have spent, and I believe that Norway is at its best. And then I will accept, on behalf of the skilled negotiators, the rose that has come. They've heard it, and I'll pass it on. I find that there is hardly anything that can make a government council more proud than having such an office, which is respected internationally, and which is a trend set in developing modern marine law – through generations. That honor also goes to retired officials and resigned foreign ministers and governments. But the most important thing today is to honour those who, until the last hours of the night, were on the way for this agreement to fall into place. It is a pleasure to be responsible for and work with such skilled employees, and they also deserve the benefits they have received from Stortinget on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1050	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1054	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his very good contributions. The concept of «historical» and «marking day» is, of course, comprehensive, to which many people have been subjected, cf. also the representative Solhjell's reference to Google search, and they deserve their place on a day like today. Maybe that's why it's so tight on the press leg in the main hall! But that's not what I was supposed to ask. There are high expectations of the hopefully significant petroleum deposits in the area. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs expect some sort of race, also taking into account Europe's lack of energy and a Middle East in fire? Is the government ready to launch the necessary investigations to keep up with Russia in this field?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1063	I've experienced in all these years that the word 'race' falls very easily when you talk about the north, and I've seen it as one of my tasks to try to disprove, through what we do, and the way we work, that race is a legitimate concept. Resources are mainly located within the zone and base of responsible coastal States, and thus it is up to these countries to take responsible decisions on how to develop them. What I can say on a general basis is that Norway is going to be fully aware of its responsibilities, both in terms of the necessary monitoring of resources and the necessary and proper pace of how we are going to exploit them. But I would like to remind you that we also have a great responsibility for the renewable resources that are so unique in the north – that we are now taking care to use the overall competence we have, a comprehensive management plan and the kind of approaches, so that we make the right decisions. I believe that up and down the picture of conflict in the Middle East, Europe's search, often a little vague signals of what energy needs are, and how to resolve them – it must be assessed by competent Norwegian analysts, and then we must take it into account in our decisions. But for me, it's not that different from how we approach it in the north, and how we've approached it in the middle of Norway and further south of the sea. It is the step-by-step approach that should be our approach also in the north, and I am sure that an overall Norway will arrive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1074	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1077	I would also like to thank the rapporteur for a constructive and flexible cooperation on this matter. The cross-political support for the agreement in the nomination confirms a valuable basis for Norwegian foreign policy, namely the ability to lift some key issues out of the temptation for party politics and tacticism, taking into account the interests of the country. The agreement resolves, as many have said, the main outstanding issue between Norway and Russia in the post-war period. A clear North border, this vast maritime area, will provide the basis for new opportunities for cooperation on development, resource management and sustainable use of resources. A large area is opened up to the petroleum sector on both sides of the border. Cooperation is needed here, not least to ensure environmentally sound petroleum activities in these vulnerable areas. At the same time, I would like to stress that the agreement does not change the important cooperation on the sustainable management of the rich fisheries resources in this maritime area. It keeps going on like before. All of this creates new opportunities for business, for new jobs and for people-to-people cooperation in the north. It must also be emphasised that the sharing line agreement strengthens our neighbourly relationship with Russia. It provides greater stability and predictability in the northern region, a region that for almost 50 years was one of the central conflicts – not so much between two neighbouring countries, but between east and west and between two ideologies: between democracy and the market economy in the west and communism in the east. The rapporteur has explained – and others have been involved in the debate – the key elements of the agreement in a good way, so I will not repeat it. But I want to sign and underline the praise of those who – on both sides – have worked on this agreement for 40 years. It has taken time, but some of that time probably has to be attributed to us starting work with the Soviet Union and concluding the agreement with Russia. On the other hand, developments in the law of the sea have contributed to the balanced solution that is now on the ratification table today. This is an important dimension of the agreement. It is based on the rules of the Law of the Sea on maritime boundaries of the Convention on the Law of the Sea, to which both countries have acceded and are thus bound. The International Court of Justice in The Hague, through various courts, has made a significant contribution to clarifying the guidelines of international law, as it is called, in this field, among those clarifications of the 1993 borders between Jan Mayen and Greenland. The fact that a large and powerful country against a smaller neighbour is the basis of international agreements and international legal order should be noted. It has to be like a model of disagreement about border dragging elsewhere. The ability of the Russians here to change the focus from a sloppy self-interest and a thought within a zero-sum game to a win-win situation in the common interest should be learned by other countries with open questions. The provisions of the Agreements on cooperation in the management and exploitation of common resources, whether fish or petroleum, strengthen not only the legal basis for cooperation between our two countries, but also the rationality of such cooperation. It strengthens the development of a law-enforcement relationship between countries. As others have said, Norway’s relationship with our neighbours in the east has always been good and pragmatic. The liberation of Finnmark will never be forgotten. Even during the cold period of the war, with strong tension internationally, the relationship between Norway and the Soviet Union was marked by cleanness and, at bottom and ground, stability. After the Iron Curtain disappeared, we've got a development of cooperation across the border in the north that I don't think anyone could imagine while the cold war lay like an ice cap over the possibilities. The agreement we are ratifying today will provide the basis for further development of this cooperation, and it will strengthen the image of Russia as a predictable neighbour who respects international law and concluded agreements and wants cooperation for the common good.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1107	I agree with all the previous speakers on this brand day and this ratification that now seems to be going well. The process we are now completing here started in 1967 when Norway and the Soviet Union started negotiations on the demarcation of the continental shelf in the Barents Sea. Now we have a limit for both the sea and the base. We must be very pleased about that. Norway and Russia are now working together and will do so in the future. There has been trust between the parties in order to enter into an agreement, and now we need to use this confidence to look forward to opportunities in this important area. It's not the boundaries that create values. It's the people who cooperate, who create these values in this important area. I would like to stress that it is those who live in the area and in this region who will see the opportunities and be involved and influence this cooperation further in the future. It's not so strange that it's taken time. There are two different cultures, etc. Russia, which is no longer the Soviet Union, has had major changes in the social and governance structure. There have been fundamental changes in this great kingdom. The borders were before between west and east, where NATO met the Warsaw Pact, etc. Now the boundaries between these neighboring people are drawn up in a completely different way. We must search together, look at cooperation and see common opportunities, as I said earlier, and it must be firmly anchored in our principles of democratic social values, including in this area. We have a special responsibility as a large coastal state when it opens up new transport opportunities and increased traffic in the area. It offers opportunities, but it also imposes a great responsibility on us. For example, we must have joint responsibility for the monitoring of the sea, for search and rescue in a very large area – I can mention Svalbard etc., as we have discussed in the past – and the international legal order at sea. All of this needs to be shaped in a much better and safer way in the future. Not least, we need to take care of the unique, vulnerable environment that is in the area, and we need to exploit the resources. We have harvested, and we have reaped with responsibility the renewable resources in the area. We have to keep doing this. The administrative cooperation we have with Russia has been extremely successful. It has to be built on. In the petroleum sector, rules and procedures must be in place. A lot is in place, as it turned out in the hearings we've had. And we have good experience from the base, from the North Sea, with how to allocate the resources that are on the seabed. Russia is the largest supplier of natural gas to Europe. We deliver approx. 40 pst. of all gases consumed in the EU. The reserves are big for both of these nations now. Norway and Russia have common interests, and we also see great common opportunities in this area. This agreement opens up, as I said, new opportunities in the north in terms of cooperation, resources, business, jobs, knowledge and not least well-being. The Nordic regions are the government's main field of activity in foreign policy. Now the big building block is in place. It's this part of our neighbourhoods that's the most changing. We have vital interests in the area. We have responsibilities and opportunities. A new, good chapter is written for the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1130	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1133	It has been said very wisely and very well from this pulpit in this debate. I want to take a couple of points. Let me first start back in the year 1599. We're talking about 40 years, that's, and I want to expand my perspective. In 1599, King Christian IV traveled along the Norwegian coast, with the aim of reaching Finnmark. And what was it about? Well, of course, it was about marking the Norwegian border against Russia. The goal of the trip was of course also other things, but mainly it was about securing Finnmark as Norwegian territory. I wrote detailed travel logbooks from that trip. I'm not going to read everything. But in one of the two diaries it was, when they thought they had been at the end of the world and had come back to civilization, written – and at that time they praised God: I have plowed the foaming sea, now I praise the dry. May God make sure that I never had to get to sea again. It is said to the extent that the other voyages that Christian IV made to the north went ashore. Why am I saying this? Well, I'm saying that because borderline markers of course have a very important historical dimension. And as is written in Norwegian history books today about the year 1599, in 400 years you will also describe the year 2010 and what is today a national, historical event. We've been able to think of it as something that concerns the north, and that concerns the north. I believe this is something that, of course, is about Norway and the whole of Norway as a nation. We all hope that this will be noticed and, of course, have ring-effects in North Norway. But with our industry, for example. in the marine sector, maritime sector, oil and gas, we hope that you can notice it in Kristiansund, that you can see it in Trondheim, in Bergen, in Stavanger, in Horten, in Oslo, in Drammen – and maybe even in my city, Kongsberg. On the last two Committee trips from the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, we have noticed very much how unsolved borders are a major political problem. One trip we made last autumn was to China and Japan. We saw how unexplained borders became an acute political situation by a fishing vessel being arrested, and we saw it now, when we were in the Middle East, how unexplained borders lead to conflicts. I hope, and I know, that the agreement that we are now agreeing to today is an inspiration for solving more unresolved border disputes in the world, and I really hope that in our foreign policy work we will also emphasise that part in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1148	That being the case, the debate is on this issue. 4, of many also referred to as historical, at least ended. [[Fotation, see page 2359]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1164	At the request of the Foreign and Defence Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies after the post of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1173	Norway has a very conscious and focused effort to control and transparency around exports of defence equipment. Our control regime is one of the most stringent in the world. No authorization is granted for the export of weapons and ammunition to countries where there is war, where war threatens, or where there is civil war. In the last year, additional measures have been put in place to strengthen export controls, including: by restoring a separate export control section of the U.D. It's positive. Many countries are today restrictive in terms of transparency in their defence exports. This makes it particularly important that Norway plays with open cards and that we contribute internationally. The processing of the annual notifications by the Storting is such an occasion and has shown cross-political relaxation both in the practice of the export control legislation and in the degree of transparency granted in relation to the export of defence material. So this time too. It is a unanimous committee that will maintain and further develop strict legislation, and our starting point is to make Norway's good export control even better. This time the Committee held a hearing inviting organisations to make their views known. In summary, several suggested better control over the end-use of Norwegian-exported defence equipment and improved current labelling and tracing practices in the area of small arms and ammunition. At the same time, it was also pointed out that Norway has one of the world’s most stringent legislations for the export of defence equipment and that many are also subject to a common international code for the export of defence equipment. An end-user declaration ensures that no individual country resells material purchased in Norway. The government is working to ensure that this is also the norm in NATO. It is positive and a work supported by a unanimous committee. We look forward to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs coming back with more information on the ongoing work to establish a common standard in NATO and on international technology and knowledge transfer legislation. At the same time, it is important that the Norwegian defence industry has framework conditions which enable it to compete on a level playing field in this particular market. Norway’s work in international forums to improve control of conventional weapons, in particular small arms and light weapons, and their ammunition deserves recognition. In our view, international agreement on a legally binding instrument for the labelling and tracing of small arms and ammunition is very important in the light of the humanitarian suffering that the use of small arms represents and results in. Norwegian defence equipment is being branded today. Nevertheless, a joint committee wants the government to look into the proposal of the Church's Emergency Aid, which emerged at the hearing, on better labelling of each ammunition cartridge. Such work should, of course, be carried out in cooperation with industry. The government has been committed to strengthening cooperation between defence and industry. The defence industry in Norway is flourishing. There is a debate in society about whether this is a problem. I'll say no. The starting point for a defence industry and a defence export is a legitimate right for any country to have a defence. The Workers' Party believes that the acquisitions of the Defence shall also be used to build a solid Norwegian defence industry. That is why we are pursuing a policy in which large acquisitions of defence will contribute to increased value creation in Norway through repurchase agreements, that we should focus on multi-national cooperation in defence policy and further develop Nordic defence cooperation. We see the results of this policy in the form of a modern and high-tech defence, highly skilled jobs in Norway and important technologies that also have a large civil use. At the same time, this requires that we have a cleanness of exports. All in all, we can sum up that Norway is a leading country internationally around openness and that the control of Norwegian exports is good. Last time we saw this in connection with the export licence to the former KNM Horten supporting vessel. I want to present that example in today’s debate – for what happened? Well, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs withdrew the license given when new information from the buyer about plans to arm the ship and the offer of off-coastal security services was made known. As is known, the information first provided was that the vessel was to be used for purely civil purposes. This, I think, is an important example of a consistent material export policy. I would like to sum up by saying that I am pleased that today there is a unanimous committee that is presenting an overall position, and that there is cross-political consensus in such an important political matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1196	The rapporteur has given a clear explanation of the Committee's unanimous position. I just have a few points. Some things I think are better suited to unanimity than others. In my opinion, this can be such a matter. There have been many years with a broad majority. For many years, the Foreign Affairs Committee has been working to discuss these kinds of difficult issues, and I do not conceal that there is a significant pressure from many organisations on these kinds of issues. But we in the Committee have had a long-term practice in which we have managed to agree on the wording relating to these rather demanding issues. Because if you gave in to this pressure immediately, you could find yourself in a situation where you could very quickly do some kind of self-harm on us as an industrial nation, as a weapon manufacturer. It would be self-harm that would not at all contribute to a more peaceful world, which, of course, is an overall goal that we all strive to achieve. But the Norwegian arms industry is so clean and controlled, to say it this way, and is a model for the rest of the world. We're supposed to be proud of that and take it with us. But it must not be a goal for it to be buried. It must exist, and it must have good living conditions. The rapporteur explained the reasons for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1203	I also thank the case rapporteur for a good review of the case and for an explanation of the case. I just have some additional comments. I would like to stress that the Right considers the Norwegian defence industry to contribute to significant value creation, and that it is an important industry, which means a lot to the rest of the Norwegian industry, not least the technology part. The fact that the Norwegian defence industry is able to claim itself internationally shows that we have managed to build a competent, sustainable environment, especially around the Kongsberg environment. But others also contribute significantly. There's little doubt that it's one of the world's biggest industries we're talking about. Norway is a significant exporter. In 2011, we're going to trade safely for between 5 and 6 billion. kr in advanced equipment and weapons. We are also a significant buyer of materials. So my comments do not primarily relate to the ambitions of the government's representatives that the Norwegian arms industry might take over after the oil once it ends like our flagship, as a state secretary said after a visit to Westfold, but we have a significant potential in this area, which needs to be continued. Repurchase status and perhaps greater ministerial attention to the many small and medium-sized companies around Norway, which can contribute here, are necessary. We have seen how important it is to work intensively on the concept of repurchase. We have made large investments in purchases to Norway, which has been and is necessary – weapons and equipment in this sector are, in fact, also necessary for Norway. It's going to be a significantly bigger challenge in the years to come when we're going to have monitoring and technology-based control over the areas where we exercise power. That's why there's a desire on our part to also have an open door to new companies, companies and companies that can contribute in this area. The case rapporteur has thoroughly addressed the strict requirements and rules that must apply in the context of the end-user declaration. I believe that in this picture, too, it is important to harmonise our policies with our alliance partners, including the eight normative rules of the European Union, which I have understood are contained in the Norwegian legislation on dealing with these rather complex issues. We feel that the matter is in good hands. This is a major and important industry. It's true, as the representative, Höglund, said, there are a lot of people who focus on and have an interest in these questions. Industry is largely technologically driven and means a great deal to the individual companies that want to be able to supply for repurchase or to be the supplier of the large purchases we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1216	First, I want to thank the case spokesperson for his good work and articles. I think that we have been through a very positive development over some years when it comes to this issue; broader and more in-depth debate, openness and a much better regulation. We do not export to countries that are at war, as has been said before. We have limitations and close follow-up to get licenses in other contexts. The ethical guidelines for the petroleum fund limit investment in certain types of weapons. We handle and debate an annual message in Stortinget, and it is reported well, although I think, as some of the hearing agencies, that there is a potential for improvement in reporting in some areas, which we can come back to with later messages. I want to point out a couple of challenges in the years to come so that we can get even better. The first one is that about 90 pst. – if I am not mistaken – the A-material is exported to NATO countries and Sweden and Finland. We don't have a final user statement there. The question is specifically addressed in the Soria Moria Declaration. It says one will. ‘Maintain and further develop a strict code for Norwegian arms exports. The Government aims at introducing the end-user declaration by all countries and working towards its becoming a norm in NATO’. I know that the foreign minister and the government have seen that work going on and done a considerable job already to follow up that point. Both parts, to set it as a goal and to work to make it a norm in NATO, in my opinion, become very central in the years to come. It's not too often we discuss these questions on the street or at a party. But when someone rarely asks me if why arms exports are so important – I also meet that question among political colleagues – it may be difficult to give direct, current answers. But before this debate, I thought of – and went and checked – a question that might be up-to-date, explain why this may actually be very important questions for the world: In 2009, Norway exported arms to Egypt for 14 million. kr. In its entirety, it's called B-material, not weapons and ammunition, but it's about radioline equipment, connection, and that kind of thing. And we're not going back any further than 2008, according to what I've been able to check, before the export was over 100 million. kr. - That's a significant amount. And according to the international media – with the rest of them having to report online – I have come to understand that both Germany and France have warned that they have stopped all trade in weapons with Egypt. Is it hard to read from international media reports online what exactly it means – is it permanent, is it temporary or does it register material differently from us? But at least I found it up-to-dates the question of how we view the demands we make on human rights and democracy. Because I think if someone here from this pulpit two months ago had taken up the question of maybe selling B-material to Egypt, it wouldn't have that much resonance bottom. But today I would think that at least it wouldn't have been stupid for Norway and other countries to discuss how we deal with it. The situation for democracy and human rights has not improved in the last two months of Egypt; it is mainly the protests that have intensified. I'm not taking this into account to give a conclusion to it, but first of all because it's a very topical example that what kind of human rights democracy demands we make to our export control regime can actually mean something for the lives of many people, too big states, for the development of an entire region, as we experience in the Middle East. So this – together with the question of the statement of the end-user – I see it as the central thing to work on in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1234	The Christian People's Party is pleased that it has gradually become a better regulation, greater transparency and better reporting practices for the Storing in this area. But we can further improve the regulation, both the control systems and the reporting procedures, and that Christian People's Party would like to be involved and contribute. There is a lack of control over international arms trade. The consequences are more serious. Every day, over 2,000 people die of armed violence. This totals 740,000 people per year. Most victims of armed violence live in developing countries, especially in Africa and Latin America. The widespread spread of small arms threatens development and peace in many of these countries. In total, such weapons are traded for more than 1.58 billion. dollars annually on the legal market, and for more than 100 million. dollars on the illegal market. Norway is part of this reality. The total value of Norwegian exports of weapons and other defence equipment in 2009 was 4.8 billion. kr. I guess that was 16 pst. more than one year earlier. Therefore, this industry contributes to significant value creation. It also contributes to the development of technologies that can be of civil use. At the same time, it is more important than ever to prevent the weapon from coming away or in the wrong hands. This applies not only to A-materials, i.e. weapons and ammunition, but also to other military material and so-called multifunctional goods. We need to strengthen international cooperation to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and other destabilising weapons supplies. There are important limitations to the export of defence equipment only for the use of authorities and to the granting of licences for such exports to NATO countries, Nordic countries and other related countries authorised as recipients only if it is possible to demonstrate who is the end-user. However, when arms-exporting countries rely on different criteria for who gets to buy weapons, the result is often that national systems undermine each other. There is a need for reinforced rules and better coordination. When assessing applications for an export licence, consideration is important both for military security and for human rights in the recipient country. The Christian People's Party will strengthen the position of humanitarian law in international export control. The Christian People's Party is in favour of better control of small arms, other light weapons and ammunition. We must work for international consensus on a legally binding instrument for the labelling and tracing of small arms and ammunition. It may limit the humanitarian suffering caused by the use of small arms. The hearings where representatives from civil society raise questions and make recordings are always useful. The Church’s Emergency Aid has made a proposal to label symbols for the seller, the first buyer and the production batch – lot number – on each handgun ammunition cartridge. It is good that the Committee now asks the government to take a closer look at this proposal. Norway must play a driving role internationally in these issues and lead by example. Norway is one of the world's largest arms exporters. The state owns, among others: 50 pst. by Nammo, one of the world's largest ammunition producers. Nammo has factories in the United States, Sweden, Finland, Germany, Switzerland and Canada other than Norway. They follow the export regulations of the countries where the factories are located. Several of these countries’ export legislation is much weaker than the Norwegian one. Among other things, the United States, Finland and Germany practice exports of arms and ammunition to Congo and Saudi Arabia – countries to which Norway does not sell arms because they are at war or threatened by war, or because of the human rights situation in the country. Here, too, there is a challenge that we need to look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1257	This is the second issue we have today, where it is a unanimous committee position. I give commendation to the committee for that. I want to repeat that in this area, it is a very strong thing that we have such a broad majority behind Norwegian positions. It is interesting to discuss this whether you are at a party – to the representative Solhjell: There has not been a review theme at my parties, but it can also be taken there – or here in the hall. The Government is committed to ensuring a continued strict export control practice in defence equipment. Our strict practice turns out to be that 90 pst. the export of defence equipment goes to NATO and Nordic countries. It's a dominant proportion. The tasks in the export control area have increased sharply in recent years, and I have noticed that in the time I have been in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Exports are also following political and technological developments; they are becoming increasingly complex. For this reason, in 2010, the government set up a separate section of the U.D. for export control, and the area has been strengthened by several posts. Since in the previous case we found reason to pay tribute to the office, I am also following up here, for these are demanding and difficult matters that require a great deal of systematics and political judgement. And we have capable people who have that. The defence industry in Norway provides good value creation, more have been involved, we should not be ashamed of it. This is also important in the development of civil technology. The government considers it important to ensure a predictable environment for industry, even in relation to foreign competitors. I cannot see that we are doing self-damage in this matter, as the representative, Mr Höglund, did not say, but he warned against. End-user statement is a theme that has raised a lot of attention and commitment. In 2009, the government took the initiative to work towards making such a declaration by all countries a norm in NATO. A survey of the documentation requirements of our allies shows that they mainly follow the same practices as Norway. We always require end-user documentation, and like our allies, the requirements are more extensive when exporting to countries outside the vicinity. In the further work on a standard, including exports to third countries, several tracks are relevant, including: The UN negotiations on the establishment of an international agreement for the regulation of trade in conventional weapons, Arms Trade Treaty. We also want to continue our work in NATO. We will inform the Storting about the progress of the work either in the annual notification to the Stortinget, or in any other appropriate way. In terms of labelling and traceability: As long as there is no agreement on a binding international instrument in this area, the government is satisfied that Norwegian producers carry out labelling on a voluntary basis that allows traceability of their products. At the same time, we are actively working for a binding international instrument in which the experience of Norwegian manufacturers’ labelling practices could be drawn. Current international arenas for this work can be followed up, among others. The UN negotiations on the establishment of an international agreement for the regulation of trade in conventional weapons and the UN action programme on the illegal conversion of small arms. With regard to the question of Egypt, on which Solhjell's representative was involved, there's a timely question. Now, as the representative said, it's not open for the export of so-called A-materials, weapons and ammunition, to Egypt. As late as autumn 2010, the Ministry rejected a defense application to sell fully equipped MTBs, motor torpedo boats, to the country. It is open for the sale of B-material to the country. The figures have gone up and down somewhat, but the figures for 2010 will not be available until the next notification to the Storing. In 2009, exports amounted to nearly 14 million. kr, i.e. a relatively modest amount. But it is that when we focus on human rights, the political situation and the internal situation of the recipient countries, Egypt will now be subject to a specific assessment in the light of developments in that country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1274	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2359]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1292	As described in the interpellation, Norway is one of the few countries in the world that is under obligation. We have both a personal obligation, which must be fulfilled by a cage there in person, and we have an impersonal obligation, which can be fulfilled by making one another live on the property on which it is bound. In addition, the obligations of Norway may be divided into three forms: We have legal obligations for close relatives, or one who has no rights, who takes over an agricultural property. Here is the obligation to reside for five years, which arises when a person acquires agricultural property without concession from a close family, or has no right to property. This form of contingencies follows directly from the second paragraph of Section 5 of the Concession Act and is personal, i.e. that in order to fulfil the obligation of professional secrecy, the owner must himself be registered as a national resident of the property and himself be based on the property. The owner must move to the property within one year. Obligation may also be imposed as a condition in the concession case. In this case, it is for the municipality to assess whether the obligation of professional secrecy should be imposed on the individual case and whether the obligation of professional secrecy should be personal or impersonal. Generally, such conditions will also be observed. The last form of conscription is the one that is perhaps the most special in Norway, and that's where the municipalities adopt regulations on the reduction of the concession limit, so called zero limit. In such a case, which is the case for ordinary judgments in the bar, the obligation may be imposed on freedom of concession. And as far as I have an overview of it, today it is approx. 80 municipalities in Norway that have such regulations and that have such obligations. In municipalities with a code of reduced concession limit, a property may be acquired free of concession by confirming that the property is to be used as an all-year dwelling. This obligation is impersonal, and that means that it can be fulfilled by the owner or others being registered as resident on the property. In municipalities with a reduced concession limit, the purchaser must either confirm that the property is to be used as an all-year dwelling or be in close family with the former owner in order to take over the concession free. Some municipalities may have outlawed the family exemption, so that conscription is the only possibility to take over the concession free. In other cases, the buyer must search for a concession. Norway has special rules in this area, but we're not the only country in the world that's under obligation. In Europe, there are three more countries, Poland, Austria and Denmark, which have obligations. But as far as I can see, the obligation is less extensive and less invasive in these countries than in Norway. In addition, there is an obligation in countries that a person may not want to compare entirely with. China has had, and certainly still has, some kind of obligation. The same has one in North Korea, where I myself was on vacation this summer. There has to be another – and this is not to give any new ideas to the Minister of Agriculture – search to move from one village to another village. It's a huge bureaucracy and a very strong intervention in the freedom of the individual. Obligation is a strong delimitation of private ownership and imposes significant costs on society — both administrative costs and others. to manage and control compliance with the obligation of professional secrecy and the costs incurred by the individual owner who is subject to the obligation of professional secrecy. In several local settings, due cause for quarreling, bullying and other intrusive conditions, which have also been significantly blamed on the judiciary. The European Court of Justice has dealt with two questions of professional secrecy. There is an agricultural property in Austria and one in Denmark. In both cases, the local authorities lost. The personal obligation was contrary to EU laws and regulations. Norway is a well-known member of the EEA, at least for the moment, and in this area EU laws apply to us. Doubts have also been raised as to whether the rules of the Norwegian Concession Act and the Odelsverwaltungsgesetz are contrary to Articles 13 and/or Article 17 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. In paragraph 37 of the Danish judgment, it is called a breach of Article 13(1) of the Declaration of Human Rights. In practice, this means that rules on personal obligations are inconceivable with these fundamental principles of law. Article 13(1) is replaced by the following: ‘Every person has the right to move freely and to choose the place of residence within the borders of a country.’ The judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 25 January 2007, paragraph 37, therefore states that the personal obliga tion is against this point in the Declaration of Human Rights. This will apply accordingly to the Norwegian rules on personal obligations under the Odelsgesetz and the general rule of Section 5 of the Concession Act. In the case of the impersonal obligation under the Concession Act Section 7, it is not legally established whether it will be the framework of Article 17 of the Declaration of Human Rights, but unfortunately there is also great uncertainty here, and also great risk, that it will also conflict with these fundamental principles of law. Article 17 reads as follows: ‘1. Everyone has the right to own property alone or with others. 2nd@item: inlistbox No person may arbitrarily be deprived of his property.’ Now, fortunately, most people, businesses and countries, if they are in doubt as to whether a practice is legal or not, change the practice immediately. It seems to me that Norway should have done the same thing in this matter – so remove the obligation immediately. In addition to the fact that the obligation is legally highly questionable, there is little evidence that she has any good effect at all. The fact that the obligation does not work is caused by two factors in particular: in conscript municipalities, it is a significant gain for owners by changing the status of the dwelling from a full-year residence to a leisure home. In conscript municipalities, there were several year-old dwellings that changed their status to a leisure home, rather than in unobstructed municipalities. The second reason is the so-called relative paragraph of the Concession Act, which exempts ownership of property from compulsory residence when he is transferred to children and other close relatives. The members of the family who take over an all-year residence are free of obligation as long as they are owners. The whole year's dwelling becomes a leisure home for the family, but if the property is sold out of the family, it is compulsory to own it. Obligat lowers the sals value, and it costs less for the family to use the dwelling as a leisure home. With the family paragraph, therefore, one gets the opposite effect of what is the intention of obliging. It will be cheaper to have a leisure home in municipalities with a mandatory obligation than in municipalities with no obligation to provide services. So everything suggests that we're actually on the verge of doing what we do in Norway. He is at best very legally questionable, and it is also difficult to see that he is carrying anything with him any good, or that he is working according to the purpose at all. It leads to the question that I started with, that the Progress Party wants to clarify what the Council of State wants to do. Is the Council of State busy with the UN Declaration of Human Rights, and will it take action to ensure that both Article 17 and Article 13 are complied with, and can it be said with certainty that there is a clear margin that Norwegian rules do not conflict with the UN Declaration of Human Rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1347	The interpellation was addressed to the Minister of Justice. However, housing falls within my remit, and we have therefore come to the conclusion that I am attending this debate. For me, the interpellant seems to be basing its enquiry on an assessment that today’s rules on housing obligations on agricultural property primarily violate human rights – rights that give every right to move freely and protect against being deprived of property. I do not share the interpellant's view of this. The idea of individual freedom and classical rights is enshrined in the UN Universal Declaration, and they are of course central to a rule of law like ours. This includes, inter alia, rights relating to: laid down in the Constitution and in the Human Rights Act adopted in 1999. The provisions mentioned by the interpellant are contained in protocols related to the Human Rights Act, which makes them applicable in Norway. The ideas are also well anchored in the law adopted here in the Stortinget. However, human rights do not mean that all can follow their own desires. The consideration of other people and the consideration of the best interests of the community make it necessary to set limits on freedom. Legislation is always a tool for setting clear boundaries between the social interests involved and the private interests that individuals may have. The rules show everyone that it is freedom under responsibility. It is the responsibility of the State to ensure that the individual has the protection and the security to which everyone has the right within the framework of the rule of law. There are countless examples of such considerations in the legislation. I would like to mention a few: we have a smoking ban, not for the sake of the smoker, but primarily for the sake of the environment. We have a ban on tobacco and alcohol advertising, and it's set up for the benefit of the users. In order to ensure safe working conditions, action is required in the interests of the working environment. Finally, only those who have a valid driving licence are allowed to drive a car. The person who acquires an agricultural property and is closely related to the seller, or has no right to property, is exempt from the obligation to apply for a concession. The exemption is conditional on the new owner settling on the property and living there for five years. This is the obligation to live. The aim of the rules is to take into account housing, resource management as a whole and the consideration of the cultural landscape. The rules on housing are the same as the examples I have mentioned, justified for important reasons of society, which therefore weigh more heavily than the individual owner's right to do as he or she wants. It follows from the right to own property in the Convention on Human Rights, Article 1 of Protocol 1, to which Norway has acceded, that social reasons may also be justified on grounds of human rights. I must point out that the obligation to live also does not prevent the owner or others from moving freely within the country, as described in the Convention on Human Rights, Protocol 4, Article 2, paragraph 2. 1st@item: inlistbox This provision is based on the fact that freedom of movement can be restricted by legislation if it serves social interests. I would also add that housing, as the representative also said, is not a strange phenomenon. Denmark and Austria are examples of countries in Europe that have housing rules for the purchase of agricultural property. It is also worth noting that when the Danish agricultural legislation was substantially amended in 2010, the bourgeois government chose to maintain the housing regulations for the first 10 years after the purchase. However, permanent residence in Denmark was lifted. I am also aware that the Supreme Court next week will deal with a matter of housing obligations and human rights. The case concerns a decision to refuse a concession because the dwelling had been in default for many years and the property was used as a resort. The theme in this case is not primarily the question of whether there is access to housing rules, but whether human rights apply in such a way in the specific case that the Supreme Court finds the grounds for declaring the decision invalid. The applicable housing rules were adopted by a broad majority of the Stortinget by June 2009. In the proposition underpinning the legislative decision, the relationship with human rights was assessed. As a result, the size was briefed on the question in advance. The treatment of the population shows that both the majority and the minority considered housing, resource management and cultural landscape to be important societal considerations. The representatives, however, were partly strongly in disagreement as to whether accommodation is suitable for these reasons and whether the reasons were so important that they can justify current rules. This political disagreement still exists, but the disagreement has nothing to do with human rights. For me, this is about safeguarding the individual's freedom under responsibility and safeguarding important community interests. Social considerations are important in deciding how to exploit property resources in this country. This is reason one cannot expect the owners to take for themselves. Property law, including the obligation to live, allows for balances where both the owner’s interests and social interests have a central place. I believe that the law we have today keeps this balance in a good way. The rules are not based on light solutions where the common interest is absent. However, in my opinion, together with a deliberate use of the rules in the municipalities and active local community brokerage, they can contribute to the resettlement of empty farms. In my opinion, the rules are thus suitable for the public interests which justify the obligation to live. About 80 pst. of the residential buildings on Norwegian farm are currently used for housing. This implies that approx. one fifth of the houses on Norwegian farms are not used for housing. Some are empty; other houses are used as cabins or recreational dwellings. The discussion on how empty farms should be used in Norway is an important debate. However, it is more than the right of the landowner to make available, namely how to maintain and create living settlements. It is important for urban and rural development, and the effort to achieve this requires continuous efforts by different actors. Surveys show that almost 400,000 people can expect to buy a small use. Many people want to buy a farm to live there, while others want to use it as a cabin or a leisure home. The policy objective must be to facilitate the use of the resources of the empty dwellings in order to ensure their settlement in vulnerable communities. In addition, for the resource-intensive agricultural properties, it must be widely accepted that the owner must be subject to certain regulations and obligations. Such properties, which are often entitled to public transfers, which depend on operation, must be managed in such a way as to restore something to the community in the form of food production, in the form of industrial development, cultural landscapes, housing and living areas. For me, this is about several things: if the owner himself does not use the farm for housing or nutrition, we should stimulate the sale of the farm or the dwelling. In addition, those who want to live in the dwelling must have the real opportunity to buy. They must not compete at prices with owners who want to use the property for purely leisure purposes. In addition, in order to ensure long-term settlement, employment must be provided or created for those who are to live in the houses. The housing rules affect who acquires agricultural property and therefore how the properties will be used. The rules thus have a direct impact on achieving the objectives I have outlined here. In densely populated areas, the purpose of maintaining or strengthening residence is less important as a justification for the rules on housing on agricultural properties because the relocation is not a problem in such areas. However, considerations relating to an overall resource management and to the cultural landscape also argue for housing obligations in such areas. The rules are proportionate. Owners of agricultural property manage important social values. The owners are free whether they want to use the property as a dwelling or to sell it to others who want to use it like this. Moreover, the legislation allows for a concrete balancing of a number of aspects to be carried out during a concession procedure. Moments such as the size, profitability, household relationships, connection to the property and the life situation of the applicant may be withdrawn and justify an exemption from the dwelling in the specific case. Overall, I believe that the laws, with the amendments adopted in 2009, provide a good starting point for the policy I have outlined today. I also perceive that I have a lot of people with me in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1383	Now it wasn't very surprising from the Council of State. It was a little disappointing. I had hoped that one would have taken hold of this problem with a little bit more seriousness and a little more boldness than what is being done by Lars Peder Breck. I feel that a repeats old phrases from before, where one refers to important societal considerations. A user does not spend any time pointing to and discussing that these important community views of district construction and this do not make any better for one to be conscientious. On the contrary, there is a clear indication that this means that one has more houses that are not full-year dwellings because of the obligation to pay. Nor was the Council of State concerned with the Danish judgment, which quite clearly states that the obligation to object to the Declaration of Human Rights is contrary to Article 13(1). I read Article 13(1) instead, but I thought I could do it one more time. It's easy to say. ‘Every person has the right to move freely and to choose the place of residence within the borders of a country.’ It is difficult to see that this article corresponds to the obligation of professional secrecy. It has been established by a Danish court that this does not correspond to the obligation of professional secrecy. Then I thought that it should take a little more seriously. Now, if you are in doubt about anything contrary to the general legal principle, you should change your practice. Here you do not do this, nor do you want to change your policy. One indicates that this will happen to the judicial system - it will appear to the Supreme Court quite quickly. That's absolutely right. It's going to burden the legal system for a long time to come. There is no good use of society's resources. So one has such a dubious law that it creates controversy and a lot of administration, and it creates a lot of extra work for the justice system. The judicial system has enough time to take care not to get new cases to deal with the breach. I had actually hoped that the Council of State and the government had realised that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1397	It's probably true that it's also revealed by the representative, Mr. Hagesetter's post now, that there's a completely different input to the discussion that we have on this matter. I would like to stress that when we have housing regulations in Norway, which is an old system, we have it in mind that we are to take care of social interests. I tried in my previous post to go through the balance between safeguarding the individual's freedom, the individual's desire and the pursuit of important social interests, which I and the government believe must weigh heavily. The objective of securing entrepreneurial income, of settlement, of living settlements is important social interests. I hope, of course, that there are also social interests supported by the Progress Party. Nevertheless, with this discussion in mind, we know that there are differences in attitudes in how the objectives are to be implemented. In the 1800s, the liberalist side of state ruled. We had the so-called night scale state. The attitude was that the government’s task was to maintain law and order and provide external security – and only that. I almost perceive that there are such attitudes the Progress Party is now making itself a spokesman for, and it is a governance philosophy that I do not want to stand for. In my view, it is necessary for vulnerable communities to actively facilitate developments in which empty housing on farm can be used for residential purposes. Existing building stock has potential for use as housing and the basis for industrial development in relation to properties. Only where it is not possible, the practice of legislation should allow houses to be used for leisure purposes. That is what will result from the policies of the Progress Party, if they are implemented. So here it is that there are two ideological points of view that meet. The ideological statements are traditional and old, and it's a discussion I've had many times. Either way, as I see it, we have to balance the individual considerations with the social considerations that I've done here. We have chosen to maintain the obligation to live, as was also supported by a majority of the Stortinget in 2009 at the latest during the examination of the legislation, which was then up to discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1410	It is not certain that Stortinget is so interested in participating in my experience, but I am one of those who have taken over an agricultural property without a concession – because I was unwarranted – but with a dwelling obligation. I have felt like one of the privileged people in the country who had such an opportunity. It has never occurred to me that this with the obligation to live should degrade or place any restrictions on my life's development, or in any way be negative. You usually acquire a property to run it, not use it as a speculation object. I have therefore not, for my part, assessed the obligation to live up to Articles 13 and 17 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. It has been entirely on the side of what has been relevant to my experience. In June 2009, the Stortinget discussed the legislation on agriculture, among others. the obligation to live, and one could well say that the law was modernised. I think the Council of State here instead gave a good account of the assessments that were then made, also against international regulations and obligations for Norway. There is a known case that there is disagreement about this question here in the hall. While the Progress Party probably perceives agricultural legislation as a bureaucratic loot that weakens private ownership, I and my party believe that agricultural legislation is a tool to ensure food production and activity on farms. We must pursue a policy that ensures the operation of cultivated soils and makes it both desirable and possible. But that was interesting today when the Business Committee gave an opinion on Document 8:24 S for 2010-1011. I noticed that the Right Party and the Advance Party agreed in a comment on the obligation to live as a possible violation of the individual's rights and the right to move freely in the country. I think it's an interesting political point to take with me. The Labour Party believes that the provisions of this legislation are an important framework for what individuals can do with their property, while at the same time having a bearing on the implementation of the agricultural policy for which there has so far been a broad majority in this Chamber. I am also concerned about private ownership and the right to dispose of it, but at the same time I am concerned that the land should be kept in claim and operated as well as possible. Owning agricultural property also assumes a responsibility towards the community in managing and maintaining the soil’s production characteristics for the future. Food producers have a number of transmission systems through the agricultural contract system, and then it must also be possible to demand that the land be properly maintained and used. The food situation of the future must be taken into account when considering the use of property resources in this country. As I was in the past, in 2009 the Stortinget adopted changes to the law of the land, the law of the land and the law of the concession, and changes were made to the housing obligation. Only residential buildings that are or have been used for residential purposes are now subject to the obligation to live. The landline of residential and non-residential property was then raised so that fewer properties were covered by the scheme and the rules on housing were simplified. In the Labour Party, we are also committed to facilitating new people who want to enter agriculture, people who want to invest in a future in agriculture, keep the land in claim and continue agricultural production, preferably young people, who often have low purchasing power. If we were to have a free slip on the price and removal of the dwelling, as the Progress Party wants, it would lead to purchasers acquiring a farm as a leisure home. In the future, we also need to facilitate the combination of interests with the interests of society and balance the ownership of landowners with regard to the maintenance of living areas and active agriculture throughout the country. As the Council of State has now stated, there will be important elements that need to be discussed in the context of the big message coming here to the Stortinge to spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1429	Interpellant Hagesetseter is with this interpellation in an area that affects many people in Norway in some way in their lives. In many cases, housing can have tremendous consequences and can completely change the life course of the individual or family. Either you have to move your place of residence, or you have to sell what you already have, or you have to sell the place of residence. So you have to get rid of something that maybe several generations in the family have built up – this just in order that you can't do something that you would think in a democracy was non-existent. Earlier, and in other regimes, we've heard of forced residence in places where no one would live, or where the state or the country wanted it to live people because of production or tactics by having a residence there. But in today's Norway this should not be necessary. The Norwegian Research Centre has carried out several studies on the housing obligation. A survey of November 2008 asked whether the concession obligation on residential real estate in recreational municipalities ensures full-year residence. In the wake of the report, author and researcher Magnar Forbord of the Evening Post on 8 November 2008 stated the following: ‘The sole purpose of the obligation to live is to ensure the annual residence of residential real estate. We find no effect of the obligation to live in our study, so the authority should become more nuanced in its view of the obligation to live." The party to the progress is not in doubt that the obligation to live is a major interference with private property rights. By virtue of the concession law, the authorities may require that certain properties be occupied. There are two types, as far as I know. It is mandatory for agricultural properties, including forest properties, and a type of housing obligation that can be adopted by each municipality. The obligation to live depends on the law on the concession by acquiring real estate, etc. of 2003. There have never been so many empty farms, i.e. Farming no one lives on, as it is now. This must be a sign that the obligation to live has a negative rather than a positive effect on filling. At the same time, it can be mentioned that in the last four years it has been counted, there have been 4,419 fewer farms. There have also been 141 000 measures of less productive area. What is also important in this debate is that while there are so many farms empty, much because of the housing obligation, there are about 400,000 who want to buy. The purchaser and the seller often agree on the price, but the authorities do not approve it. The practice of housing prevents the future development of agriculture and forestry in Norway. The situation in agriculture is that many properties have passive owners in the form of family pools and unaltered residents, because the law of the land and the law of the concession prevent smooth and nutrient-oriented turnover. There is probably no doubt that housing also leads to less investment in buildings and in the cultural landscape than would have been done without accommodation and price approval. Why do you have to spend thousands of dollars on cleaning up without getting anything left for it when you might sell it some time? This reproduces, of course, and in the long run, a property that was in good condition and interesting to many will be the opposite. The purpose of the so-called dwelling obligation is to give one a counter-effect. As a summary, the following can be said, in particular, of the part of the housing obligation relating to agricultural and forestry property: Housing and reduced property prices result in more passive owners retaining holdings for as long as they can. Mortgages keep the properties. Agricultural land is rented out. The buildings are poorly maintained and less invested in both floor and operating buildings. With poor maintenance, several bunkhouses become unoccupied. All highly mature forests are usually harvested before a forest property is sold. Obligation to live and operate reduces the value of the properties' turnover both as a place of residence and as a holding. Public regulation scares many young people who are capable and creative. They choose other professions where there is less regulation and bureaucracy – and the so-called obligation to live. Only a small part of all of this would mean that the flat should be removed as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1456	I listened to the Council of State analogy to the Smoking Act with a certain interest. Clearly, it is necessary to seek out the natural range of living quarters to find arguments for it. It was also this analogy – that it is not for the sake of the smoking, but for the sake of the environment. Then I would say that if it is with such analogic leadership that one approaches ownership, namely that it hurts the person who is the principal and exercises it, it is clear that in a balance situation one will soon find that the interests of the environment outweigh the property rights of the person who owns a thing. I think we have to go into a discussion about whether the place of residence is pursuing and meeting its goal. It is also true that when you go into an area of regulation, it is therefore not the intention to be judged, that is how this legislation actually works. And we now have a good deal of experience, we've had some years to evaluate the effects. The quality of a law lies in the effects, not in the fixed order in which it has been passed into this assembly. And then you have to see if there are positive effects that are so big that they can defend such a significant interference with the ordinary property rights that the dwelling represents. Like Per Roar Bredvold, I want to stay a little bit by saying that leading research environments have actually written the necrologist about how successful this is as a measure. Researcher Oddveig Storstad in the Norwegian Centre for Urban Research stated in the Nations: ‘One might say that today’s legislation works badly if the goal is to stop the relocation.’ Otherwise, I can refer you to the representative of Bredvold's rendering of researcher Magnar Forbord's input, which goes into the same thing. It was a quote, I think, from the Evening Post on November 8, 2008. Then we have Normann Anesland – he is professor of agricultural economics at the University of Environment and Life Sciences – who says: ‘Residence obligations and reduced property prices result in more passive owners retaining the holdings The buildings are poorly maintained and less invested in both floor and operating buildings.’ [[...]] It's also another relationship that affects the owner who sits there and is loyal to the politicians' desire not to move. It is true that if you go to the bank and have to provide security, it is natural to place the property as security – most people know it. It's just that if it's concessional, and it's related to the obligation to live with it, of course, the circle of people you can realize is very limited. So this is going to press the prices downwards, it's going to push the values downwards for the owners, even when they live in peace. Their ability to raise loans on that property, not to move, but to modernise, maintain and expand, is effectively blocked out, if you don't even have significant funds to shoot in. It's actually by taking up loans most of us are making improvements in our own housing. So this also pushes the mortgage and is involved in depleting, drying out, the credit that these areas very well could need. Then they had also had money to create jobs: scaffolding, work to be done. This, of course, would also benefit local business. I have to end by asking if it really is that the Council of State is not interested in research that concludes that housing does not work. And if I were to be wrong about this, is it so that the Council of State could think of getting involved in the relevant research, maybe ordering research in this area, and later, if you got research results that were so convincing that even a Council of State was convinced, be able to set up its policy after that? This area is ripe for revision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1479	Housing is about how the agricultural property market is to be regulated and whether we are going to have living settlements here in the country. Of course, there may be different opinions about this, but no one is forcing anyone to live on an agricultural property. The justification for the housing obligation rules is related to the purpose of housing and to the consideration of an overall resource management and the cultural landscape. We want it to live around the farms in this country and the soil to be cultivated. These are important societal considerations. The size of the institution deals with the rules on housing no later than last year. The majority considered that it is important that the best possible way of living be taken into account. This means that land resources are localised and used and developed for the benefit of the community. The amendment made it easier to apply the rules to housing only for agricultural properties with more than 25 covers full-grown or surface-grown land, or 500 covers productive forest. Another relaxation was that the obligation applies only to buildings that are built and either are or have been used for annual residence. The Christian People's Party is on an equal footing with others concerned about moving away from farming. There is a considerable variation between the different parts of the country. Relatively many live on farms in central agricultural municipalities in the Mjø region, around Oslofjorden, on Jären and in Trøndelag, while there are very many agricultural estates without permanent residence in North Norway and in smaller central agricultural municipalities. The obligation to live and operate prevents the opening of a market for agricultural properties to become large leisure properties for capital-intensive investors who stay only for short periods on holidays and the like. It is not this Christian People's Party sees as a forward-looking agricultural policy with living settlements. A 2008 survey indicates that housing obligations provide more stable housing. Nine out of ten are never applying for an exemption from the obligation to live, and among these there are more than 90 pst. they may live on the farm for more than 40 years after being moved in. If the holder has applied for an exemption, there is a much greater chance of the farm being removed after the period of exemption. This may indicate that the housing obligation makes farmers think carefully about the situation before taking over and making a long-term choice. As the researcher behind the report says: "They could give the bill and move after the imposed five-year period, but they don't." The Christian People's Party believes that compulsory living and working is an important instrument in rural and agricultural policy. Agricultural property forms the backbone of many rural communities and is the starting point for local value creation and local growth. Farm assets that are propelling should be priced precisely on the basis of their propitiousness and should be in active operation. There is no doubt that housing actually works as a price-reducing factor. Had it not been the case, there would have been no political noise on this matter either. At the same time, it is unfortunate that practices vary from municipality to municipality. If the housing obligation system is to have a future, and that is what it should be, the system must be applied in a reasonably similar manner and must be practiced in a sensible way. Here the Minister of Agriculture has a challenge, by ensuring that housing contributes to maintaining housing and creating life, well-being and activity throughout the country. Another important measure to ensure the settlement of farms in rural areas is to pursue an agricultural policy that provides farmers with good and predictable framework conditions. Here the income development of the farmers is absolutely central. The removal of housing or other measures that will make agricultural activities and housing more uncertain is the last Norwegian rural area that is in need right now. The Christian People's Party will do its part to ensure that agriculture is given as good and predictable a framework as possible, and that agricultural policy is as much as possible in line with the signals we receive from agricultural organisations and from people in the countryside.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1510	There's an interesting point of view that the interpellant brings into the debate on housing, because there's no doubt that housing is an instrument by which the principle question mark of the set can be determined. Not least for the State personal dwelling obligation applicable to agricultural properties. In the view of the Left, this type of dwelling should be terminated. Instead, the left will have a more active housing policy for those agricultural properties that are mainly a place to live. Above all, there should be a desire and commitment to farm practices that are driving a desire to take over an agricultural property, not a dwelling and inheritance. For me and the Left, it is obvious that the agriculture of the future depends on the people who are allowed to live on and around the farm. Therefore, it is so important to be open and flexible, in order to find solutions that allow the active, creative and initiative-rich to settle and develop farm use in the light of the opportunities they see. This is not done through regulatory restrictions, by refusing to build union houses where there is no livestock, or by imposing housing obligations on out-of-country property. These are old-fashioned agricultural and rural policies, which lead to depopulation rather than population. Unfortunately, a letter from the department shows that the housing, creativity and the modern and forward-looking people that the policy of the previous government was allowed to escape, now not only is being stopped, but also reversed. This creates frustration both among practitioners and local politicians who are overrun by bureaucrats at county level with regulations and guidelines from ministries as a basis. What Norwegian agriculture needs are armpits and homesickness, not detailing and over-management. Then the best people find themselves doing other things. It is consistently highlighted from the trailer of a dwelling obligation that this is an effective and accurate instrument for ensuring the settlement. The problem is that there is not a single research project that demonstrates that the housing obligation has a positive effect in strengthening the housing. This applies both to the personal obligation to live in agriculture and to the obligation to live in full-year dwellings. More people here have been involved in various research environments. I want to draw up Building Research in Trondheim, which in recent data has looked at the impact of all-year housing obligations and come to the same result: it has little or no effect. Also, building research does not have data supporting a hypothesis that housing in agriculture leads to more housing or a more active agricultural policy. Is this something the Council of State is listening to? The natural consequence of this should be that one does not tighten up the obligation to live. Political support for housing is diminishing, and housing will eventually disappear. There are already ten municipalities in the country that have removed the housing obligation. Agricultural and all-year-old housing obligations also have several adverse side-effects — public coercion, financial loss and reduced welfare for individuals and for families as a whole. Finally, it's time for reality to be oriented. The housing obligation has no proven positive effect, but can have a number of negative effects, both for individuals and for the community. Therefore, it is natural that housing should be abolished and replaced by a targeted housing policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1530	After listening to some of the speeches in the debate, which have reminded us more about pure peasant romance – how great this will be as long as we maintain the living environment, and that it will solve all the problems – I think it is time to bring us down to reality and put our legs well planted on the ground. My dear colleague in the nutrition committee Arne L. The Haugen told of his experience related to the acquisition of the farm which he owns today. Then I'm going to share my thoughts – with the opposite outcome. My family also has a farm, a farm that you used in your time, among other things. assessed further sales, but which would result in either not getting the price for what you wanted, or – if there was no bid – that the nearest neighbour would then be able to take over the land. It meant that instead of selling e.g. to a person who might have wanted to farm there, it became in the family's possession as a resort, a resort, and so on, because it was part of an inheritance, and thus the obligation to live in that context does not apply. I want to ask questions about how long the government has been going to stick its head in the sand and hope that the problem with the deportation from the villages will only pass by itself. The representative of Haugen also referred to the position we took today, related to the draft representative in Document 8:24 S for 2010–2011. I find reason to read from what it says. Now we've had two lawyers here on one side, while Arne L. The Haugen has had the opposite view. I read from the statement: ‘These members are of the opinion that the obligation to live can have the consequence that it can lead to the individual’s rights, such as the right to move freely and choose a place of residence’, etc., being violated. This may conflict with the rights set out in Articles 13 and 17 of the UN Declaration of Human Rights. I think it's important that we have it fresh in memory when we discuss these things. What happens if a person who has bought a property in the belief that one can drive it further, comes to the conclusion relatively quickly that it is actually not viable, that one no longer has the opportunity to operate it on the basis of the assumptions underlying it, and that one simply cannot afford to continue living here and must find work elsewhere? Then you can risk no longer complying with the housing requirements, because you actually move illegally – under the legislation – from the farm to find work elsewhere. Then the public can come in and coerce the property, and at a much lower price than the one he paid for it in his time. Do you think that is a correct and sensible form of policy? Or maybe you just want to sell an agricultural property. Those who have worked up this farm have spent a lot of money on a real house, and have arranged for a number of activities, want to sell it, and then a person comes in and wants to buy, and you try to come to an agreement. But then it says publicly that yes, you will be allowed to sell, but we believe that this is 400,000 kroner too much, so we believe that you should sell at that price, and if you do not sell at that price, you will not be sold. This is also something that will cause him to say that ok, then we still buy this apartment inside the city, we do not sell this, it becomes standing empty, the lights disappear from the windows – as you regularly in this room so that you describe it in a peasant romantic way – and then you have achieved the opposite of what you wanted to achieve. The Council of State just said in his intervention that in that case he would stimulate the sale of these properties. But the problem is 1) that you don't dare to invest in what you have, of the fear that if you're going to sell, the public comes in and says that you don't get that price, or 2) that many actually won't buy it, because in the long run it will regulate your right to move to another place and thus you will lose some of the investments you actually make. The future is going to show us that we were on the wrong track in terms of housing, and that also shows the relocation from the towns we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1555	I would first like to thank everyone who has participated in this debate. I think this is an important debate. There has been a great deal of excitement in the debate, and I think that the political divisions have come out very clearly. In particular, I thought it was interesting to see the clear political lines between the Christian People's Party and the Left in this case, which have taken two widely different positions here. Now, the government is constantly pointing out that there is an important social dimension, without one specifying it, and that there are also issues in relation to whether these important societal aspects are fulfilled. Representative Arne L. The Haugen stated here, if I understand correctly, that the UN Declaration of Human Rights is irrelevant in this matter. It seemed to me to be strong words, if that's right as I have understood it. I didn't expect that from a representative from the most important and dominant government party in Norway. But if we ignore the legal in this and all this about one being on thin ice there, at least it's a fact that the obligation doesn't work. In the case of private dwellings in municipalities that have imposed housing obligations in year-round dwellings, there are very many empty. So when it comes to agriculture, it's going to be less and less gardening, less and less arable land, all the time. So it happens independently of who is with the Minister of Agriculture. It's always decreasing. It shows that the obligation does not work in relation to the important societal concerns that the government and the state council here want to endure. If these regulations don't work, at least it's up to my head that then we might have to consider regulating less. Let the market regulate this, and see if it can't work better if the market and the free initiative come in. But the government says that if the rules don't work, if the detail management doesn't work today, we have to regulate more, then we have to control the details even more. I'm completely overconfident that it won't come forward. I had hoped and desired that the Council of State had shown a willingness to look closer and liberalize this. Unfortunately, I have not received that signal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1568	I too would like to thank the interpellation and thank you for the debate. It underlines, as also pointed out by the representative, that there are important ideological dividing lines between the parties. That is what the debate has come up with. I would also like to stress that it is important to follow the lead of the representative Tetzschner: Gives the legislation – the legislation – the effect you want. Then I think that I must be allowed to say that this debate does not always distinguish between snares and bars in terms of living conditions. This debate has brought together price regulation, housing obligations, compulsory employment, etc., which are different elements of property law in agriculture. I would also like to say that in this debate on housing, if you stick to it, there is no distinction between the personal housing obligation on agricultural property and the legislation on housing in so-called zero border areas. In order to take the last one in particular, it is that zero border areas are determined by the individual local authorities, and it is mainly on the south coast and in some mountain and leisure municipalities that such legislation has been introduced in all or part of the municipality, in order to ensure full-year residence. It is not the case, as it is presented, that research results from Building Research are as unambiguous as is stated here. It has shown our review of these research results. What is important, I think, is that we look at the result, which everyone here has asked for. That's how, as the representative of the Christian People's Party said, nine out of ten who take over an agricultural property, if we talk about it, do not apply for an exemption. 80 pst. the agricultural properties are actually resident. So it's going to be 20 pst. who are not resident and there are various reasons why they are not resident. We are constantly working on the means to ensure that several of the properties are settled. I think that's a more important discussion than the legal legislation that you have up to here. Then I also want to stress that the social view that I stand for is that we inherit the earth from our ancestors, and it has to be managed for our descendants. The development we are looking for is to be sustainable and long-term, and then it is that the consideration of natural bases, societal development and the environment must be overall short-term or private considerations. That's my entrance to the discussion. I would just like to stress the need to see the whole of the legislation, the whole of agricultural policy, property legislation, the necessary regulation – not too many but necessary regulation – grant schemes and various initiatives together. Agricultural policy and agricultural property policy shall ensure the resource base for agricultural production. It should ensure recruitment. There are also important elements in property policy, which we have not been in today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1583	That being the case, it is no. 6 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1599	The availability of teachers in Norwegian schools is essential for the further development of the school in the pact with the demands and expectations of future workers. The 13-year education cycle is now facing a marked generation change among teachers, where many of the most experienced teachers in the coming years will thank for a long professional life in the classroom. In this situation, it is important that authorities think in the long term and equip themselves with the broadest possible means to ensure that Norwegian schools have a sufficient number of qualified and committed teachers. In addition to large teaching coal approaching retirement age, the school has another significant challenge related to a high proportion of unskilled teachers, i.e. teachers who lack approved education for the stage at which they teach. Nor is it appropriate to reassure that since 2005 the proportion of unskilled teachers has increased. Unfortunately, the situation in the English language is no exception. There is reason to warn against the consequences if this unskilled trend is not reversed, because we know that the qualifications of the teachers are a decisive factor in raising the professional performance of the students. So what is the status of teaching competence in English? A thorough survey of teacher competence in 2007 showed that nearly 70 pst. by primary school teachers, more than 50 pst. by intermediate teachers and more than 25 pst. by the youth teachers had zero credits in the subject. These are high numbers, and although further training measures are in place for teachers, this offer is not in proportion to the real need for training of Norwegian English teachers. Unlike other schools, English has the advantage that it is possible to recruit from an international market for teachers. If English-speaking English teachers from the first class are not desirable, English lessons in English should be fully available from the intermediate stage — and at least in upper secondary and upper secondary levels. As a teacher, I would say that it is more of an advantage in the whole hour to go in English. In other countries, the financial crisis with which we felt so much about this country has led to major cuts in the public sector. The result is that many public employees have had to leave their jobs. This is the case, for example: in Ireland, where there is now widespread unemployment among teachers. It's in this situation right there will encourage the government to think about teacher recruitment. In a number of other areas of society, labour has long been common to the outside world. In school, it has been most unusual to add teachers from other countries, but perhaps not surprisingly, it is the municipality of Oslo that has made it to a certain extent. In a Evening Post Report from Oslo School in September 2008, we met a bunch of teachers who had their studies from Switzerland, Spain, Pakistan, the Netherlands and England. In a multicultural school like the one we find in Oslo, but also elsewhere, foreign teachers are perceived as an important resource — and in more than one way. Teachers recruited from outside must meet the same skills as their Norwegian counterparts, and foreign teachers normally have to seek recognition of their teacher training. But here, real competence assessment must also be one of the tools of an authorisation process. For the right, it is also obvious that foreign teachers also have to undergo a mandatory introduction with regard to the principles of Norwegian curricula. However, I am quite convinced that, for example. Irish teachers who can be recruited to Norway and away from unemployment in their home country will both be in the general requirement for recognition and will be motivated by an introductory course in the Knowledgelift before the meeting with Norwegian students. The point of this interpellation is to point to other possible ways of providing primary and secondary education with good language teachers. I have so far had the focus in English, which is the foreign language that all students should learn, and where the need for teachers is of course the greatest. However, it is also not difficult to imagine that teachers from abroad can be a very valuable resource in language teaching for students with a different background from Norwegian — and, of course, also when it comes to teaching in other foreign languages. On the right, we think we need a more robust strategy for teacher recruitment. Although Norwegian teacher training will continue to be the main supplier of teachers for Norwegian school in the future, it is important to keep your eyes open and also use other available channels when this can give us competent teachers with professional qualifications who are scarce at school at home. When the Storting adopted the Knowledge Promise in 2004, the ambition was for Norwegian students, as their fellow students in other European neighbouring countries, to learn two foreign languages. In addition to English, a different foreign language should be chosen in which training should have the emphasis on controlling the language orally. The objective of another foreign language is, as you know, later abandoned by the red-green government, despite the efforts of other comparable countries and despite the fact that good language skills are becoming increasingly important in a globalised world. However, the right has noticed that the government has started a series of trials of intermediate language training. This is exciting and an interesting new orientation from the government. The trials are based on volunteering, of course, and after what I understand, these hours come in addition to the regular hours. But with the eager 6th-classes in Mo in Rana showed for Russian, I look forward optimistically to the evaluation of these trials. Not least, I'm concerned with what we can learn about when it's most favorable to start with another foreign language. It is now elevating both research and teaching voices that say, the earlier, the better. The motivation of the children is larger down into the classes. Back to the language teachers, who are the main concerns of the Right in this debate. A week ago, we discussed the need for a Russian language offensive in the north. To re-use Mo in the Rana experiment as an example: the teacher was from Russia, and without this enthusiastic female teacher, there had hardly been any Russian offer in Mo in Rana. When the knowledge promise was adopted in two foreign languages, incentives were also put in place to train more foreign language teachers. The government's reversal of that decision and the replacement of two foreign languages for all to an optional offer led many teachers to opt out of their language studies, because it was then unlikely that their competence would be needed. English has served as an example here, but if Norwegian schools are to be able to provide an extended range of training in other foreign languages in the future, it may be even more relevant to look to the rest of the world to get the necessary teaching resources. Language is important, and good access to competent language teachers is a prerequisite for good and motivating language training in Norwegian school. The government, as mentioned earlier, has also initiated procedures that carry out bids for the increased need for foreign language teachers in the years to come. Does the Minister of Knowledge agree that foreign language represents a niche competence in which it facilitates the recruitment of teachers, including from abroad? And will the government take its own initiative to make Norwegian school teachers' needs in foreign language, also known to foreign teachers as potential workers in Norwegian school?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1639	The representative of Aspaker is entitled to have significant challenges in providing sufficient qualified teachers for school addition. The government has addressed these challenges in several ways, and it is not sufficient to talk about an unskilled trend among teachers in Norway. On the contrary, we have an increased recruitment trend. Two years ago, the Ministry of Knowledge, together with the parties and organisations, established a teacher recruitment campaign called GNIST. The campaign has now been extended to three new years. Work is being done both nationally and through regional partnerships to increase the status of the teaching profession, to increase the application for teacher training and to recruit for teaching positions. In 2008, we strengthened the competence requirements for inclusion in the subjects of Norwegian, mathematics and English at the youth level. The government's aim is for teachers to have the relevant competence in all the subjects in which they teach. In line with this, in 2010 we had, at consultation, proposals to extend the current competence requirements in order to be added to include competence requirements for teaching. We want to invite Stortinget to decide on such a change in the Training Act. This should enter into force at the same time as the first coal is graduated from the new teacher training we have introduced from 2010, i.e. in 2014. It is a pleasure to note that the interest in new teacher training is high. We have recorded that the number of qualified applicants for teacher training has increased by about 30 pst. from 2008 to 2010, and these are very good results. But here we still have to have full pressure, and through the partnership in GNIST, we are constantly getting good input and ideas on how to proceed in order to generally have a positive, offensive and correct picture of the school in the population, and especially to recruit among those who are tomorrow's students. I would also like to mention that for several years, the Stortinget has allocated considerable amounts to developing the skills of teachers and school leaders who are already in school. However, I would like to stress that it is the municipalities themselves that appoint teachers in primary school, and are therefore responsible for adding teachers, who have the necessary competence. When it comes to the addition of teachers with foreign competence, I think it might be interesting for some municipalities to consider that. I would like to encourage the municipalities here and now to look at the possibilities they have. For example, for the Municipality of Oslo, which is a large employer, with many schools and with opportunities to cooperate across schools where teachers, for example, are involved. has no Norwegian knowledge, this could certainly be interesting. For some major municipalities, such as: Oslo, and/or KS can also imagine their own recruitment work to obtain foreign teachers, I think they should consider starting it according to their needs and based on their job opportunities. Trying to get foreign teachers to Norway needs to be very closely connected if they actually have a job to offer. It is clear that there may be some counter-representation to have teachers without good Norwegian skills in school. At least at the lower levels of primary school, it must be a prerequisite that teachers are able to communicate with students, including Norwegian. In small municipalities, it may also be difficult to take into account, for example: an English teacher in a small percentage of jobs, when the school needs teachers with Norwegian skills to be able to cover more than one subject in a full-time job. Since 2008, we have had regulations that teachers with competence from other countries must be approved by the Education Directorate before they can be appointed as teachers in Norwegian primary schools. The general rule is that recognition can be granted to those qualified to practice the teaching profession in Norway which can be said to be equivalent to the requirements applicable to teachers with Norwegian teacher training. The application for authorisation must be accompanied by evidence of qualifications, proof of nationality and evidence that the applicant is not intentional, accused or convicted of sexual assault in Norway or in the period prior to his arrival in Norway. In addition to these general rules, which apply to all teachers with qualifications from other countries, there are some special rules applicable to applicants from EEA countries and Switzerland, and thus to applicants from Ireland. These rules have been incorporated into our regulations under EU Directive, which has also been made binding on Norway under the EEA Agreement. The general rule for nationals of EEA countries and Switzerland is that they are entitled to recognition in Norway if their qualifications are equivalent to qualifications for teachers with training and practice from Norway. They also have the right to be approved in Norway, under certain conditions, if they are approved in their home country, even though their teacher training may be somewhat less extensive than the Norwegian teacher training. It is not within the general rules for the recognition of teachers with competence from other countries that they have to master Norwegian in order to obtain recognition. On the other hand, before being added, employers shall require knowledge, competence and understanding of Norwegian and Norwegian languages and social conditions necessary for the position in question. This means that there is no absolute requirement for Norwegian skills to be added as a teacher in Norway. We have e.g. several language teachers in the Norwegian school who have relatively poor skills in Norwegian. As far as I am informed, these teachers represent valuable contributions in Norwegian school. I have obtained information from the Education Directorate about the scope of approvals of teachers with foreign competence. In 2010, over 80 pst. of the 210 applicants for approval granted this. In 2009 it was 90 pst. of the 118 applicants for approval. A little over half of the applications come from nationals of EEA countries. In addition, some more frequent authorisations are granted to applicants from EEA countries than to applicants from the rest of the world. The Education Directorate doesn't have any figures on how many of those who get approval who work at school. However, they have perceived that there is an interest among school owners in adding centrally approved foreign teachers when they are adequately mastered in Norway. Several applicants for approval have already been in school for a time on a temporary basis — often as native language teachers or bilingual teachers. Together with applications from persons in this group, the directorate often receives recommendations from the school owner for authorisation. I assume that the legislation we now have for the recognition of teachers with qualifications from abroad is working satisfactorily. I therefore believe that it is not relevant today to make changes to this for people with learning skills from abroad. This also applies to the provision that employers or school owners must take a stand on the requirements of Norwegian competence in each case. A significant factor here, which I've been up to in the past, is what age it is and what subject it is to be taught in. I assume that most people agree that Norwegian competence requirements for the Norwegian student should be completely different and more stringent than for the Norwegian student, for example. shall teach English. I would like to sum up by saying that the state does a lot to recruit and keep competent teachers at school. The introduction of new teacher training for primary schools, large annual appropriations for continuing training for teachers and an active recruitment campaign are all examples of such efforts. The provisions of the Training Act and the regulation of this provision describe the requirements for competence in order to be permanently admitted to school. This legislation, as it stands today, does not prevent the school owners, i.e. the municipalities, from adding good teachers whether they have competence from Norway or from other countries. I believe that it should also be the case in the future that it is the individual school owner who should be responsible for who is added. Both municipalities and county municipalities are aware of this responsibility. I feel sure that municipalities that are striving to attract teachers with good competence in English – perhaps this is an even more topical issue at county level and for secondary schools – are interested in the situation not only in Ireland but also in other countries. And there may be several language groups, which the interpellant also had in mind, that might be interested in this. But only the municipalities and county councils have some jobs to offer. To a very small extent, the state employs language teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1675	I guess I really thought the post from the Council of State was uplifting. In fact, I think we fully agree that here we have some challenges that can be solved by allowing teachers from other countries to apply for a job and be part of the Norwegian teacher pool. When the Council of State so unequivocally points out that it is the municipalities that are the school owners and place 100 pst. of responsibility there, I do not fully agree, because I do not see that it is very appropriate that any 430 municipalities should market separately in the possible labour market for foreign teachers in Norway. I wish the Council of State could say in its next post: Yes, there is a valuable and potential resource there, and you'll see if you could also design campaigns from the national level, or that you could use other means through Norwegian foreign stations, etc. could be on the offer page and market what opportunities are available in Norwegian schools. I agree with the Council of State that the GNIST campaign has created some sparks, and hopefully we will harvest many qualified applicants for Norwegian teacher training in the years to come. I am nevertheless afraid that it will not be alone enough. I think it's important that we equip ourselves to make sure that Norwegian school – when entire generations of teachers are going to retire for the next 5–10–15 years – has enough new strengths. Then I would also like to say that, in view of continuing education, which the Council of State had in mind, we have a not insignificant challenge to raise our skills to those English teachers who are currently practicing in Norwegian school. English is, next to Norwegian and mathematics, perhaps among the most important subjects that students have. Then I think we need to have a more conscious strategy to make sure that teachers in the English language too fill with study credits and get formal competence and approval to teach at the steps they are doing. It is also revealed in the survey conducted by the Statistical Central Bureau that there was a very large difference in teacher qualifications in major secondary schools compared to small secondary schools. In a subject as important as English, it is clear that there is a potential for ‘borrowing’ teachers from other English-speaking countries, and that is a potential for providing students with even better qualified teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1686	I fully agree with the inter-pellant that we have a great potential to increase the competence of teachers – really in a wide range, but also among language teachers. When we see how many teachers are in English and who have no formal competence in English, we know that we have a great potential for improvement. I also believe that it may be relevant for some municipalities to recruit teachers in foreign language subjects. But we also see that there is a relatively modest number of teachers we recognize today, who have a background from foreign education, and that often there are teachers who have already practiced for a while in school. The municipalities that have the greatest difficulty in getting access to competent teachers will also have the biggest challenges of filling a position for a teacher who does not speak Norwegian and is only an English teacher. There will be many smaller schools in pig-grown areas. The fact that the State was going to run an active recruitment campaign aimed at Irish unemployed teachers, I think I should stick with whether you also have any jobs to offer, in order to actively go out to recruit teacher forces should be linked to having something that is solid fish at the other end. Therefore, I believe this is relevant for cooperation of municipalities within the KS system. It is fully possible for municipalities that may be struggling with recruitment and have competence needs in English, to join forces and think in the direction of a recruitment campaign, or for the slightly larger municipalities. But I think that in the moment that the state itself goes out and almost offers jobs that we don't have, we can quickly burn ourselves a little. What I think should be interesting is about Oslo, who has the opportunity to see how to use teachers who have poor knowledge in Norwegian, but good knowledge in other languages, and possibly other municipalities could find out how to approach abroad more actively, and see how to connect Norwegian teachers who need to improve their skills with Irish teachers who are good in English. There are also some possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1691	There is a cross-political consensus in this room that the teacher is the most important factor in the learner's learning. That's why it's important to have good teachers. I'm glad that we have a knowledge minister who systematically relies on the teachers, both to increase the status of the teaching profession, to get more people to apply for teacher training, and to recruit more people for teaching positions. In this picture, we also have the investment in continuing education and the increased skills requirements for adding Norwegian, mathematical and English to youth. I think it is good that the representative Aspaker is thinking new and different about teaching. Obviously, if the school owner in close dialogue with the schools finds that in their situation, teachers from abroad are desirable and that they will facilitate this, then there is nothing wrong with recruiting them. It is accompanied by certain requirements and expectations which have been set out by the Council of State. As far as I understand, the school owners are well aware of the conditions for adding teachers from other countries. Many of the school owners who spoke in the hearing were grateful for the central recognition system. Conditions have been provided for employers and school owners who consider this to be reasonable on the basis of their situation to be able to already employ competent teachers from abroad within certain frameworks. This opening has also been used. In 2010, less than 200 foreign teachers received approval from the Education Directorate, and the year before it was 100. When there are not so many employers or school owners who have prioritised recruiting from abroad, it may be an expression that not so many school owners consider this to be a particularly nearby solution to their situation. It argues against the introduction of actively looking creative solutions, but instead the line that gives the school owners room to assess their situation concretely. The representative, Aspaker, explicitly refers to both the early and the early stages in his interview. There may be reason to be more reluctant to add teachers without good Norwegian skills for young children than for young people in upper secondary education. For the youngest children, it can be challenging, but of course solved within a good educational framework, it is not entirely unthinkable that a school owner goes in to do this. However, it needs to be considered from a case-by-case basis. However, the situation is different for young and high school students, who have different assumptions. At the same time, I received clear signals from the student organisation in Nordland, Troms and Finnmark when I visited them last Friday. They had examples where their high school had recruited teachers from Germany and from Russia. Although this was at secondary level, the language barrier became a big one. They also showed that there are considerable pedagogical differences between Norway and the two countries to which they referred. The assessment made by the employer and the school owner of the possibility of hiring competent teachers from abroad will have to depend on the subjects and stages in which the teacher is intended to teach. But the school owner must also be aware of his responsibility for, among other things, language training and other close follow-up for the individual teacher when this is done. This means, in practice, that the additional responsibility and responsibility for good training should continue to be the responsibility of the school owner. I would like to thank the representative, Aspaker, for including this interpellation and putting it on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1704	It is not certain that it would have been so very necessary to take the floor in this matter, because I think it has been well focused on the challenges so far. There has also been a good and factual dialogue, although I really lack a slightly more active commitment to facilitate the use of teachers from other countries, not least in language training. The reason I took the floor is that I have to admit that for my own part, the image of the language teacher in the school has changed considerably. So from my own experience, I have a picture of the language teacher as a very dedicated teacher. The English teacher was in an English - speaking country on every vacation if possible, and he could do anything about that country, its customs, and everything they were doing there. Longer in the system was the French teacher in France, etc. – was very dedicated to it – and so I now feel, both in high school and in high school, that it is no longer that way. The world is changing. The good old teachers who had depression, who were really engaged in those subjects, are no longer there to the same extent. There's another kind of teacher there. I have children myself in high school, and I must say that I am shocked when I experience that my daughters, who are in sixth grade, have English education in the form of the old cassette player who is tricked away, and the old class set with cassettes, where it goes on «repeat after me». It is not particularly good and modern English education, but it is perhaps the safest thing for a teacher who is not safe on the subject itself, and it shows the results. It's self-excited. Otherwise, I've done the same thing several times in the last year as the Council of State, that's to say, I've met a lot of student groups. I have experienced time and time again that they address this themselves, without it being lifted up by us, as a challenge. We have too bad language teachers, they come to us and say. Then it's important to take it seriously. What we'd like to do is, of course, to train new and good Norwegian teachers with good professional immersion in language, and who can thus be comprehensive teachers for the students, and do well. But we're not there anymore, and we know it's a challenge, and then the question is, what action can we take in the short term? I fully agree that the general requirements for teachers, including those who may come from abroad, must apply. I imagine that you should be able to do this with English teachers, or with teachers in other languages, there must be teachers who join a team – who go into a context. When the council says it's up to county councils, municipalities or KS, I understand that because the employment relationship is there. There must be jobs – there can be collaboration positions, and I think there could be many places, so that you could organise this between several schools and perhaps between several municipalities. But that means that the problem is recognized both at school and in the municipalities, and that they focus on it. What I hope we achieve with this interpellation that Elisabeth Aspaker has traveled, is that we get attention around this, and that this is really a challenge that we have to take seriously. I hope the Council of State can say that this is something you want to tackle and do something about. Those responsible have a primary responsibility to do so, those who employ, and those who have the jobs, but I also hope that the Council of State can point to the possibility of picking up good teachers, good educators, where there are now available educators in other countries, and facilitate transitions, so that it may be a good solution to bring them here to the country, and that, among other things, real assessment of competence is part of it. Perhaps the Council of State will also be willing to make active contact with KS and see if they can take this further into the system because we get so many feedback from students that language training is a challenge today, because the teachers are not good enough. It's quite special when high school students come and say it. They are away in language so many other places that they experience this concretely. So this was the challenge of the Council of State – active participation in order perhaps to raise this up as a good alternative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1719	It is an important debate we have here today. It is gratifying that we have the debate, and not least it is gratifying that none of those who have spoken so far are trying to deny the fact that the professional quality and discipline of teachers in Norwegian school are important for the results of Norwegian school. It was not obvious either in the 1980s or in the 1990s or not at all until 2005. So I think it is very gratifying that we now seem to agree that knowledge of discipline and knowledge of subjects among Norwegian teachers is a good and important quality indicator at the Norwegian school. It is obvious that we do not have enough of this kind of disciplinary competence in school, and we do not only have one reserve of labour, as the interpellant points to, but in so far as two: we have a significant number of people in Western Europe who know English, and who have education in English — of course, especially in the United Kingdom and Ireland, but, as the representative of Ljunggren was inside, also in countries east of us, there is a high level of English competence. We also have a different workforce reserve, and it's all those who have competence in the language disciplines of Norwegian universities, who have a Bachelor's degree, who has a major or master's degree, or master's degree, etc., in language, but who don't work at school. I think the representative Ljunggren has a point when she says that especially in the first ten years of school, and perhaps even in high school, understanding and knowledge about Norwegian society, the Norwegian school, and not least the ability to communicate in Norwegian, is a good parameter to include in the debate. It is important that Norwegian teachers also speak Norwegian, although, of course, competence in English, and in other languages, is important. That's why I'm going to have to focus more on the possibility of taking practical education at Norwegian universities in the medium term. It is quite obvious that many of those who have this competence are at work today. If we are to get them into school, which may be a goal for some of these, we must try to create a regime – which some universities are about to do – that allows you to take practical education while keeping a different job. It's a job that neither big business nor government can do alone, but it's a job we have to try to do with Norwegian universities. So there's something else I want to get involved in the debate, and it's to make sure that several Norwegian students travel to English-speaking countries, also to countries that speak other languages, not only the languages that we have a lot of in the Norwegian school today, such as French, Spanish and German, but also to countries like Russia, China, Brazil and India to learn the languages you have there, when hopefully the interest in learning Indian and Chinese in the Norwegian school is growing in the future. It is less than 200 who are learning Chinese today. There is no pressing need for competence in either 2011 or 2012. But when we first discuss the language discipline in Norwegian school on a general basis, I would like to say that we can already well begin to prepare for the competence of the welfare state of the future and the Norwegian export-oriented economy of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1732	It's important to focus on recruiting teachers in school. In earlier times, the teacher, the priest, and the borrower were among the most respected in the village. It's not like that anymore. We can be sorry about that, but it tells us that there are other things than knowledge and religion that are the most esteemed in society nowadays. The falsification of boiler rings is, in so far as it is still the legal instrument. At the same time, the teacher's and the pastor's profession has a little bit of the same in it: it's almost to look at as a call. You don't become a priest or a teacher to make the most of money. There are other things that make you rich. When I sat on the train inwards to Oslo yesterday, I overheard a conversation between three boys aged 15. There was no one else in the wagon but me, and what the boys said was not to avoid hearing. They talked about school, and I started hearing after when one guy said, "She's the most awesome teacher ever, ass. I just chose myself at school!" A dream situation for a teacher! It's probably a teacher with a good knowledge of both his or her subject and how to get kids to be motivated and receive learning in a good way. I mention this because it's important to show that it's happening incredibly well in school, sail if we don't get the impression of it. The part of English was there. The representative of Aspaker shall be praised for putting recruitment on the agenda. As we have heard the Minister of Knowledge say, the government has launched a series of measures to recruit Norwegian youth to become teachers. Imports of foreign teachers with a different linguistic background can only be a plus for us. If teachers are in line in Ireland to come to Norway, I assume that no one is against it if they meet the requirements of them, as the Minister of Education has pointed out. When we have an interpellation debate about teacher recruitment, it gives me an opportunity to point to the challenge of getting many enough and good enough teachers in school – more than just English teachers. There is no doubt that we need English teachers with good expertise today. The world has changed, and students in today's high school probably speak both better and more English than we did. However, I still choose to take a small departure for the recruitment of other types of professional trainer. If we are to have good music education, arts and crafts education or good education in food and health, the teacher is important. Here I believe we have a lot to pick up, not least by showing out the opportunities offered by the teaching profession, to those who today have jobs in other industries. Recruitment is not only about recruiting from the youth group, but also from people who have been in the workplace in the past, and who could perhaps imagine themselves in the teaching profession, just as the representative Harberg pointed out, seafaringly by qualifying for educational skills and relevant professional theory. Last Friday I was on the Eyes of the Continuing School in Förde. The school is a vocational school with 32 classes divided by many different occupations. I was given a good opportunity to discuss some of the issues related to, among other things. recruitment with management and parts of the staff. They just pointed to the challenge of recruiting professionals, especially in technical and industrial subjects, where they could gain good skills from people who have worked in industry or in other businesses. Of course, they need to be able to meet the educational requirements, but they were concerned that a person had to undergo the problem of real-life competence. I think they have a good point. The Central Party's input to the Minister of Knowledge in today's interpellation debate on recruitment of Irish English teachers is therefore to follow up the input from the Eyes' continuing school to review the legislation related to real-time competence assessment and also to place the need for professionals in practical subjects higher on the agenda. With my knowledge of the Minister of Knowledge, I am sure that we will have the opportunity to discuss this further on a later occasion. So just short to the language training in Norwegian school. I am very happy that there is not a mandatory second foreign language in school. The center party doesn't believe that everything gets better just that all students have the same number of hours in every subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1753	I would like to thank you for a good and constructive debate. There is little doubt that there is a broad consensus that we have here some particular challenges that we should address before it is too late. I think children and young people today are very open to language. Those who are happy with the data and games are probably raised in English from where they might have been a thumb big and able to press the first keys on your computer. Having said that, I also agree with Anna Ljunggren – I guess – who was at the very lowest stages of school. I may not think of an English-speaking English teacher who stands and teaches the students either. I was also involved in my first post. With regard to the role of the department, I am very aware that there are few government staff teachers. On the other hand, I think that the State should use its apparatus to also inform that in this area there are actually some possibilities in Norwegian school if you are abroad and master a foreign language that is taught in Norway, so that you could apply for it. So I think that if the largest municipalities in Norway were more actively using the possibility of recruiting English teachers from outside, it would release resources that could come to smaller municipalities that were not able to recruit in the same way, for the benefit of them. I think we have to see that this could be a win-win situation if those who are big enough to take advantage of such an opportunity actually do. Then I think that the Council of State was in for something very exciting when she suggested that an exchange arrangement could be envisaged with the teachers coming from the outside. I used Irish teachers as a case, but I was also in my post that you can imagine teachers from other parts of the world, and from there you can recruit competent teachers to Norway who can go into work here. One can imagine that, as part of the continuing training strategy, Norwegian teachers who wanted to increase their language skills were actually given the opportunity to do so in the country of origin of the language. We know that it's a much more effective way to learn, if you're not just learning the language of the hours you're studying, but actually you have to practice the language in your daily life. I would like to thank you for a good debate, and then I welcome the fact that perhaps you can take a few more initiatives, that you can have a dialogue with the KS and see if it can be at the best of the municipalities about the largest, who are able to do it, can also see if foreign teachers can be a possible resource in a situation where we lack competence in many subjects.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1768	I cannot trace that there are major conflicts and disagreements in this debate. What I can do now is take with me some of the suggestions that have come, to the next meetings we have in the GNIST cooperation, which is about recruitment, where both the KS, the Education Association and others are present, to see if this is an idea that can be taken up further there. But I believe that those who are primarily responsible for the recruitment must also have some jobs to offer. Anyway, there's an opportunity to discuss. So some of the comments that have come. There are very many children who have a completely different contact with English today than they had before, but they often have a slightly higher self-image than knowledge in English. What I often hear from children is that they flirt a little bit of the English teacher's statement, and thus believe that they have nothing to do with grammar or pugging of glosses. But you don't learn language without training and learning some nuclear knowledge. So I don't want to be so anxious if once in a while a young person comes home with, for example. a CD and a message to train for a language course that you are undergoing, because there is a lot of training behind it to master a language well. I always tend to defend all the teachers, including language teachers, that our YouTube kids run a little over. I rarely even have contact with German, but because I had an incredibly good German teacher 32 years ago, there is still a lot of German teacher Njål's knowledge from Skien secondary school at the end of the 1970s that sits like a nail. But language is fresher. It requires both basic knowledge and frequent use. It requires that you have an interest in language all the time, and it actually takes six to seven years to learn a new language so well that you master a little more advanced professional texts, etc. Not only do we want good English skills in general, but we also want better English skills, and so I think that English teachers have something to do with it even though our kids may be a little bit more spoiled at hearing English in any other context. I am absolutely sure that teachers who have some of the languages we have as foreign languages, as their own native language, can be important contributors to the training. I take with me the ideas that have come to the debate when we discuss how we should proceed with the GNIST cooperation. And I am absolutely sure that there will be both states and municipalities that are interested in following up the ideas that have come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1782	The debate on substance is closed. 7 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1788	We are going to vote on the matter on today's map. In Case No. 1 no voting theme exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1798	During the debate, Ivar Kristiansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose a new general order of command for the defence.’ Alternatively, this proposal and the referral by the Committee shall be voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1825	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Tore Nordtun on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Socialist Left Party, the proposals No. 2 and 3, by Peter N. Myhre on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 4 and 5, by Peter N. Myhre on behalf of the Progress Party Proposal No. 3, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party, says: ‘The Government is asked to introduce an exemption clause relating to the limitation period in connection with the establishment of a new entitlement for soldiers who have served foreign operations, in order to be applicable from 1978, and to make the rights of those who have served from 1978 equivalent to those in force from 2010.’;» Proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, reads: «The Government is asked to establish a system with a maximum compensation of 65 G at 100 pst. permanent acquiring disability for damaged veterans from international operations. The substitution is proposed to be reduced proportionately with the residual segregated capacity.’ Proposal No. 5, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The government is asked to adapt the compensation schemes for injured veterans from international operations, the so-called special compensation scheme, so as to cover them with physical damage.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1858	Proposals Nos. 3, 4 and 5 as well as the position of the Committee, promoted by the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, will, in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure, be included on the agenda as its own items in a later meeting. There will be so much talk about proposal No. 2, from the Advance Party and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Decisions to the Act amending Law No 2 July 2004 59 on Defence personnel [[Federal Personnel Act]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1902	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document 8:28 LS [[2010-2011]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e1949	In Case No: 6 and 7 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-02-08.ana.ud254e2014	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
