ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e26	The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, will present a proposal for a representative. The representative who has asked to submit a proposal for a representative is not present. We will proceed to the next draft representative, from the representative Jan Tore Sanner. – The President is pleased that people are thinking about before they come forward with a proposal for a representative, but if there are any proposals for a representative, they will, of course, be dealt with in a regulatory way. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e42	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: Councillor Kristin Halvorsen Minister for Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Large Councillor Rigmor Aasrud The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. We'll start with the first main questions, from the representative Peter N. Myhre.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e59	The Minister of Foreign Affairs is becoming increasingly familiar with what he calls dialogue with organisations that many of us call terrorist organisations. Dialogue with Hamas has made Norway the best friend of Hamas, and now the Muslim Brotherhood in Egypt has also entered the Minister of Foreign Affairs' dialogue list. Not long ago there was a lunch, simply, under the direction of the Norwegian Embassy in Cairo, where the Minister of Foreign Affairs met representatives of the Muslim brotherhood, which is, therefore, an organisation responsible for Sharia law, women's abuse, bestial criminal practices and polycony – just to mention something. My question is, where does the boundary actually go? What kind of organisations is it too bad for the Foreign Minister to think that dialogue should be started with them? Is e.g. The Farc guerrilla in Colombia an organisation suitable for initiating a dialogue, or ETA – the so-called liberation movement for the Basque provinces? I ask the question: which organisations is it that, in the opinion of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is too bad to have dialogue with?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e66	The questioner begins by saying that it was ‘a lunch, simply’. And that's it. There was a lunch arranged by the embassy in Cairo, with the forces that had brought change in Egypt. So there were representatives of the opposition, those who had been in the Tahrir Square, and there was a variety of political forces that had brought change to Egypt – including representatives of the Muslim Brotherhood. The purpose of the journey was to understand and listen to what had happened in Egypt. It was to take over the rebellion of civil society against an authoritarian leader and understand how they thought about the way forward. What organisations should we talk to and listen to? I am of the opinion that it is important to listen to voices in a civil society in order to understand that society. There is no automatic recognition in it. So around that table, the forces within Egypt that live with Muslim brotherhood are an essential social, religious and political force in that society. You might be the same or not, but they're such a force. I belong to those who believe that buying the authoritarian leaders' view that all opposition to them is Islamic fundamentalism and terror, so don't talk to them, has gone wrong. We clearly distance ourselves from many of the views of many groups, including Muslim Brotherhood. Until now, we record that they were part of the peaceful, democratic movement that brought change to Egypt. It's really not possible to list which organisations you can't talk to. It's about context. If there is a process that can help the Farc guerrilla to establish peace in Colombia, that process should be supported. If there is a process that could lead to ETA dropping its weapons and becoming part of normal political life in Spain, then such a process should be supported. The means of action we have for it are political, diplomatic contacts, but of course never without demands, never without conditions and with clear opinions about what we stand for, which we communicate to those we meet.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e75	I notice that the Minister for Foreign Affairs says that there is no recognition in having dialogue with these kinds of organisations or groups. But it's going to be perceived as a recognition. Today, in extreme Islamic environments in North Africa, the foreign minister’s approach to their organisations is joyful. When I asked this question and mentioned e.g. Farc, it's because Farc doesn't have a vision of democracy or a peace initiative. Neither does the Muslim brotherhood. The question then becomes unanswered. It's thought that if Farc or the Muslim Brotherhood were suddenly to be kind, it's okay. But they have not been – and yet the Foreign Minister has dialogue with them. Then I ask, is there any reason to exclude organisations with which you are going to have dialogue?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e82	I have said on various occasions that, for example: Al Qaida is not an organisation with which it is natural to have any kind of contact or dialogue. Muslim brotherhood is part of the groups in Egypt that have been oppressed for many, many years. It has existed since the 1920s. I do not purchase without further notice the name given by the representative Myhre. I believe the great threat to Egypt in terms of extremists comes from Salafists on the outside. I think the interesting thing that is happening now in the Muslim brotherhood, which I was given the opportunity to discover in meeting them, is that there are internal tensions between generations and between different regions of Egypt. So when they come to light, they have to take a stand for their view of the relationship between Muslims and Christians, between women and men, and the view of democratic institutions. The fact that we, who are for democracy, choose not to talk to a group that might represent 20-30 pst. by the people of Egypt, helping to make them martyrs, helping to take responsibility for their attitudes. And if we are to take democracy seriously, in Norway, in the world and in North Africa, we must therefore keep responsible those who can now stand in elections. That doesn't mean we agree with them. It's by talking to them we can also express our opposition and hold them responsible for the attitudes they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e87	There will be follow-up questions – first Tone Liljeroth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e90	The Minister of Foreign Affairs is still expressing the importance of dialogue. In some cases, the Minister of Foreign Affairs uses critical dialogue, as he has previously described the dialogue with the Muslim Brotherhood — an instrument he believes must be used to reach through with views that can build understanding for, among others. fundamental human rights. With the knowledge we possess of Muslim brotherhood, of their aims and means, does the Minister for Foreign Affairs believe that this critical dialogue has borne fruit, and in that case in what way? Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that this dialogue can rather be seen as legitimizing this extreme Islamist organisation and their lack of understanding of precisely fundamental human rights?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e95	I do not buy without further notice that this is an extreme Islamist organization, but we can take that as another discussion. I have had a lunch with them, simply, and whether it has changed the movement, I have good to see. I believe that if we met the democratic opposition in Egypt – and everyone says that without the Muslim brotherhood’s participation in the uprising that was, the revolution would not have succeeded – and then we say we are willing to talk to that part of the hall, but not that, we agree to make some of the same mistake that we have made in Arab countries, to the oppositions, over decades. It has weakened the credibility of the West and led to our being accused of double standards and to the failure of some of our principles, namely to hold people responsible for the positions they have. What basic law Egypt will have to participate in elections, remains to be seen. What demands they make on political movements remain to be seen. But it is in meeting a clear international society that says that Christians and Muslims must be treated in a non-discriminatory way, women and men must be treated in a non-discriminatory way, the institutions of democracy must be respected, that we can show them that if they want to be part of the political environment in their country and in the region, they must change attitudes – if they need to change attitudes in those areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e104	Ine M. Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e107	From the Right, we share the Foreign Minister's analysis that Muslim brotherhood is not an extreme Islamist organization. The brotherhood is not good enough. They've also signaled that as a brotherhood they're not going to make a choice in the next round. We also understand that it is important to have contact in many camps in the phase that Egypt in particular is now; it is quite crucial. It is important to stimulate the liberal, young, democratic forces that can contribute to the peaceful and good development of Egypt. It is also important to know how the Minister for Foreign Affairs assesses the possibility of establishing a good and sustainable civil society with a flora of parties in the future. Therefore, it is interesting to know what other forces, organizations and groupings, Norway is having a dialogue with Egypt right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e115	Firstly, I think the head of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee has a wise initial analysis. That's really how we recognize the right in these areas. This, of course, increases the curiosity about how these two views will work to develop foreign policy for Norway, where contact with extreme groups and contacts with different political environments that contribute to conflict – to get them out of conflict and into politics – has been a long line in Norwegian foreign policy, which has also been the responsibility of the Right. In Egypt, I think our approach should be that we connect with civil society. The Egyptians are very clear that foreign interference to shape their democracy does not want them. I learned that linking trade union movements, student movements, political youth parties and academic contacts is a very important way, where Norway can contribute, and where we are being listened to. I brought representatives from the University of Oslo on my trip two weeks ago. We are now completing a report, and we are going to make contact with civil society in Norway to see if any of these contacts can be established, and are stimulated and supported by Norwegian authorities. It's wanted to be welcomed, and there's a lot of opportunities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e122	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e125	I will also allow myself to ask questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In the extension of the joy we have seen of changes both in Tunisia and in Egypt, this fire has spread to several countries, but at the moment it seems to have a sudden stop in Libya. In Libya now Gaddafi bombs its own population. You might face a crucial time in a few days. And so there can be a stop to this new rise of democracy in North Africa through the handling that Gaddafi has of the resistance of his own movement. During these last weeks, the support for the initiative of both the United Kingdom and France to discuss an aviation ban zone has increased, not least in the region itself. The Arab League and several others have called for a ban zone in this area. I've heard the government talk a lot about analysis of this, but I haven't heard so far what the government actually thinks, what the government has said at NATO's internal meetings, and what the government has instructed our diplomats in the United Nations about in view of Norway's view relating to the flight ban zone. The grounding zone is important because Gaddafi has one of the largest air force in the region. That's what's at the heart of his power. That's what also makes it possible for him to bomb away the entire opposition in his own country. There is at present a massacre that, in many cases, meets the requirements of international law’s ‘responsibility to protection’. My question to the Norwegian Minister for Foreign Affairs is not what analysis of the situation is, but what policy we have communicated in international forums. Did we say yes or no to a grounding zone?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e138	In this case, I have to say that I think it is important to anchor a decision in the analysis. And believing that one should take positions in this without analysis, I think is going wrong. Norway does not exclude the support of an aeroplane prohibition zone. But it needs an analysis of what to respond to and what conditions to attach to it. We have contributed to NATO's position, and it states that the possible involvement of NATO is only relevant if there is a UN mandate, if it has support in the region, and if there is a real need for action, which must have added value. What is being discussed in New York these days is a new UN Security Council resolution, where the flight ban zone is seen in the context of civil protection. What we must then ask is: Will an air ban zone today protect civilians? What is clear is that the introduction of an air ban zone is not just the introduction of a traffic police force into the air. This would have to involve extensive operations also on the ground, in the form of bombing of air installations, aerodromes, radar installations, etc. It is also clear that at the moment you enter a grounding zone and bombs in Libya, you are involved in the conflict. If the ground operations continue, as one might have reason to believe, then the international community must follow up, and then we are in very unclear circumstances inside and take part in a civil war. It's of the things that have to be clarified. The Arab League wants to welcome a grounding zone, but says no to foreign military intervention. These are of the questions that are not entirely related, because with a grounding zone, the next step can easily become a military intervention. I therefore think it is necessary to clarify more clearly what countries in the region are really willing to participate in, which planes are going to participate in such an operation. This cannot be a new Western involvement in a North African country, where we are drawn into what is a warlike situation. We share the concerns about the situation in Libya, and support new, powerful actions under the auspices of the UN Security Council, and do not exclude that an aviation ban zone can be such an instrument. But this must be seen in the broader context of an analysis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e145	Now it is well that in a few days the subject of the grounding zone will not really be there anymore, because in reality the opposition will be killed in Libya. It will also have a ringing effect for all the others who have wanted to move on their dictators, their tyrannicals, and give a picture of the West's willingness to engage, if we fail to stand up clearly and say that Norway as a nation will support a UN mandate for an aviation ban zone. That is what is my question: Will Norway support a UN mandate for a grounding zone? Do we want to be drivers to get it to, or do we not? It will have long-term consequences for the democratic forces in many Arab countries for them to experience us as a casualty. It'll probably be as big and as stimulating to extreme Islamic movements as much other things we can do. I understand all the reservations, but I repeat the question, what have we said? Have we said that we believe that we should introduce an air ban zone, have we not said that we believe that we should introduce an air ban zone, or is it that Norwegian foreign policy consists only of analysis and not of positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e150	We have been critical of the slight introduction of an air-trafficking zone that is not linked to the policy with which one is willing to implement, who is to implement it, and which mandate is to be based, namely a United Nations mandate. I remember that the intervention in Iraq started in many ways with a grounding zone, it too. And the situation in Libya is that Gaddafi's forces are winning. That doesn't mean it's going to be a beaten highway for him further, either on the ground or in the international community. There may be even stronger measures against him. But from the Norwegian side, of course, we will respect and establish and support an agreement within the UN Security Council, even if it should contain an air ban zone. But we have been among those who have found reason to warn. We should also remember that the rebels east of Libya for many days, actually weeks, were against a grounding zone and against intervention. And the father is that a bankruptcy regime like Gaddafi's suddenly gets political capital in its box if foreign intervention comes, and he stays standing as the defender of himself against the West. Nor do we deserve that, nor do we defend the democratic forces in Libya.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e155	There will be four follow-up questions – first Ine M. Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e158	In the media shadow of the tragic events in Japan, Gaddafi has now been able to move ever closer to Bengasi, and it's probably talking about days, or maybe as little as hours, before the rebels in Bengasi also taste their own leader's medicine. The Arab League has agreed to a flight ban. It is actually an unusual example of how Arab neighbouring countries take a constructive leadership role, and it would be bad if the world community did not respond to that request in a constructive way. It would also be a disastrous signal to other current and potential despots in the region if one could see that it is possible to cling to power by bombing its own population. And if other measures are to be considered, is the question: if the Norwegian Government or the UN Security Council does not support a flight ban, what other concrete measures can be considered to protect the civilian population in Libya from its own dictator?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e165	The analysis we hear here, I think, is dangerous, because what it says, is that you go in for a grounding zone to stop Gaddafi and remove him from power. If this doesn't work, you have to take a new step, you have to get on the ground and go military into a situation to remove the regime and defeat it. In the current circumstances, I will warn against that. We have experience from that. The idea that the West – if that’s what’s going to happen – and not neighboring countries go into a military civil war in Libya to remove the regime can bring a situation that gets far, far worse. And if the goal is to protect the civilians, I'm not sure that's what this is going to contribute to. In the resolution that is now being prepared in New York, and on which it is being negotiated, a grounding zone is one of the elements, but the circumstances must be right. There are additional harsh financial sanctions, travel bans, arms embargo, blocking funds and blocking economic relations between Libya and the outside world. I still think there are very important measures, because even after what is now going on militarily, we have to give a choice to those who are around Gaddafi, and say that it is safer to be against him than to be with him. And that way we have to keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e172	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e175	There are other examples in modern history that the world community has been sitting and looking at the regular slaughtering of innocent civilians because it has not been possible to arrive at clear positions in international bodies such as the United Nations. There is no spotless history in the United Nations, and in my opinion it would be terrible if we were sitting still with Libyan people, too, because we were more concerned with finding semantic formulations than acting, and ended up in a situation where the population was literally slaughtered because of a lack of will for action. I think that is more alarming than the warnings that the Foreign Minister is now calling for. So if democratic forces in Libya or other countries today run by despots are to have some hope of reaching out, they must at least experience a world society that stands out for them clearly and clearly in the struggle they are fighting against their regimes, which are both closed and very demanding. So if we don't do that now, we can risk these democratic processes stopping out of fear of lack of help from democratic countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e183	Minister of Foreign Affairs Gahr Støre.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e186	I have not realized that it was a question, President, but I can comment on the analysis to the representative Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e191	Yes, it is entirely voluntary if the Minister of Foreign Affairs wants to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e194	Yes, but I waited for a question to come up, but I didn't get it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e199	The arrogance won't end, President, but he doesn't have to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e204	I will be allowed to comment on this with the support of the democratic forces in Libya. It's also a complicated situation to know what forces are against each other. Part of this opposition is now led by the man who was the Minister of Justice of Gaddafi until five to six weeks ago. Once again, there is a picture of a country we know very little about, and the recipe for going into the military, which I understand lies in the Jensen analysis – that we should go into the military without the UN mandate to rock democracy – is little support in the international community of all parties. We also need to have a joint analysis in the UN Security Council that makes tough demands on Libya, which does not exclude an aviation ban zone, but I would therefore warn against believing that there is a simple military solution to this in order to protect what might be of democratic force in Libya.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e213	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e216	A few months ago, I visited Rwanda. It's a country where the international community is not very high on the course. One of the reasons is that the international community was unable to gather on an action to prevent the genocide in 1994. What's happening in Libya is more than a civil war. It is a dictator's desperate struggle against his own people with means of power that deserve the term assault. I'm not asking about the Foreign Minister's analyses. It is clear that a grounding zone is likely to be stillborn because it is not possible to obtain an international mandate for such an action. What action can the international community take that it is possible to take before it is too late? I think a lot of people ask about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e223	Yes, there are also good questions. I have then tried to explain that I am not sure that an air ban zone will prevent what you are busy with preventing, and ensure what you are dedicated to ensuring, namely the protection of civilians. Then I believe we have to continue the way that I still believe is not useless. That's to add all the sanctions and instruments you have to Libya, from the countries of the region and from the international community. What happened in the first Security Council resolution was a very strong mark that we have not seen in the UN before: unanimously an international criminal court and the designation of individual sanctions. Further measures may be taken to ensure that what is happening on the ground is not the last chapter of developments in Libya. So I would like to stress again that in this situation, the consequence of Libya's neighbouring country's decisions is absolutely crucial. The Arab League has taken a very important step in that direction, but the consequences of what they say also need to be clarified. It's yes to the grounding zone, no to military intervention. It's not necessarily related. But they must continue their discussions, and they must do so in cooperation with the UN, NATO and with the EU, and those discussions are actually going on every day to find appropriate measures. Arm embargo is one of them, oil embargo another.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e232	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e235	I will never, under any circumstances, ask questions about the ability of the Council of State to analyse, to discuss, to come up with arguments for and against. That's good for the council. But being a foreign minister also means having some strong opinions and fighting for something, fighting for some values and fighting for something you want to accomplish – you really go out into the world and say that the Norwegian values, the democratic values, what we build on our societies, are actually willing to fight for. We are willing to fight to give it to other people around the world as well. Then my question is: is it that we have a foreign minister who is just analysing, who is just discussing, and who is just evaluating the different things, but who is not willing to really demand that Norway be a driving force in NATO, that Norway be a driving force in the UN to get active grips, to get some things done, when we see that democratic forces are asking their knees to get it done? In fact, the people who are fighting for democracy there are asking us to do something.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e243	They're asking for more things. I don't think it's necessarily very powerful and noble and for democracy to say that what we're responding to is a Western military intervention in Libya – if that's what the representative Skei Grande is for. I've traveled to Egypt, met the opposition to talk about how we can support the democratic forces that now have the courage to stand up and take power – or the power they haven't taken in and off by themselves, they've removed a power, and they're trying to influence that there's a new one. Norway is clearly present in all the forums where these questions are raised, directly to the groupings and in international contexts. But I have to interpret the question of Skei Grande there that the way we can support Libya at this moment is through a military intervention. That I don't immediately go in for that, I kind of get rid of the fact that I'm engaged in analysis. I think it's important to have such an analysis, because simple answers to this have been shown in the past to lead to quite catastrophic conditions. Iraq is such an example. I believe that both the West and the world community should think carefully about and use what is the UN Security Council and consensus there, as a starting point for the decisions that are taken. It's also an important value.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e250	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e253	The question goes to the Minister of Renewal. The Norwegian welfare community started with volunteers and dedicated people who cared. Long before Nav, long before Bufetat, the Norwegian Women's Sanity Association, the Salvation Army, the Blue Cross, church organizations and other voluntary actors set up for the poor, for vulnerable children, for sick, for health care, etc. Since then, the state and the municipalities came into the picture, and then the public welfare services and the ideals have lived side by side. Under the red-green regime, we have now come to a crossroads for the Norwegian welfare community, because all the ideal actors active in these areas are now saying that they will be gone in a few years if the framework conditions they have today exist. Not later than December, during the examination of the position of the Economic and Social Committee on the proposal for a representative of the Christian People's Party on the framework conditions for non-profit-making actors, the majority, the government parties and the Christian People's Party stated that ‘there is a need to establish more long-term and predictable framework conditions for the non-profit-making enterprises’. The question to the Council of State is: When does the government come back to Stortinget with changed framework conditions, so that we can take care of the ideal actors and the Norwegian welfare model, before it is too late?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e266	I agree with the representative of Hope that the voluntary sector is an important complement to the services we have in the public sector, and that many non-governmental organisations have, over time, gone ahead and helped to ensure that the public has made good offers to those who need public contributions in different ways. It is true that the Committee asked us to look at the framework conditions for non-governmental organisations. What the government is currently working on is getting a good knowledge of how the situation actually is today, because the statistical basis that exists is deficient. It doesn't distinguish between commercial actors and voluntary private actors, so we have a job to define and figure out how much the volunteers represent with what they work with. Then I have also had a number of meetings with the volunteer organisations to get a clearer feedback from them on what framework conditions are problematic. We have had meetings with many of the organisations, including with those organised in the HSH system. I'm going to have the last meeting in a large number of meetings now on Friday with Freedom Norway, which is a major player in the voluntary sector. Once we have been reviewed and defined and analysed what the issues are, we shall return in an appropriate way to the Storting with the answers and what possible action can be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e277	I thank you for your answer. In the so-called Adecco case, many red-green representatives have gone very high in the debate in the wake of that case. Among other things, the country's prime minister has stated to the NRK that it is better to buy health and care services from the Church's City Mission than from international commercial actors. Then the paradox is that today's framework conditions make it the most commercial ones, and that it is the ideal institutions that are being laid down. I appreciate that the government is going through the knowledge base. That it's demanding is enough. But what we already know, and on which we don't have to spend a long time, is to say that twenty institutions have already gone down in the last few years, and that many will be cut down in the years to come, unless the framework conditions change. That is why the majority in this House have said that it is urgent. Will the government come back in time? Will the government come back before the summer with changed conditions, so that we can save the institutions we can save?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e288	I wish it were more than the red-green politicians who were involved in the Adecco case. I think the Adecco case has revealed something that more people should distance themselves from. The fact that you have good working conditions is important for the red-green politicians, and I wish that it was not just us who focused on it. And then we've also seen in the cooling water of the Adecco thing that it's not just ideal institutions that are being laid down. I record that private institutions are also being laid down. We're working on going through the conditions. We're going through the facts. I want to have a good dialogue and get action that is consistent with what the volunteers and the non-profit organizations also think will be necessary, and then we get back to Stortinget in an appropriate way when we finish our work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e295	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e298	I must honestly say that I wish it had been the same pressure and willingness to do something for the volunteer organizations that it has been in the condemnation of Adecco. Then the government and government parties do not hesitate to use that case to salute the voluntary sector. But when you get a concrete question today, the answer is that you're doing knowledge acquisition. You run analyses, and you have meetings with the volunteer organizations. There is not a single political signal that it is intended to take concrete action to bring an end to today's situation, with the massive closure of institutions run by volunteers. So I have to ask the Council of State: do you have a political interest in keeping the voluntary sector alive and able to run institutions in this country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e305	The government has intentions and willingness to contribute to the good framework conditions for voluntary organisations. But we rely on doing so within the law that we are obliged to follow under the EEA Agreement, and then there are some limitations that apply. It is fully possible today to reserve tenders for the non-profit sector, and this is done in some contexts. But there are many private companies that do a good job in the health and care sector, with whom we also rely on good cooperation. I think it is important to strike the balance between the private companies that provide good rehabilitation services and the non-profit organisations that are also good actors in the health and care sector. So I don't think it's going to be a either-- or here. We have to take care of both parties in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e312	Jon Jäger Gåsvatn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e315	Our welfare society needs different actors, both public businesses, private ideals and private commercials, and as the Council of State says, the borderline between the ideals and the commercial ones is not easy to see. This was also something we included in a Document 8 proposal that the Progress Party has been promoting for a long time back, focusing on this because the non-profit organisations might have been in the process of disappearing in five to ten years. One of our proposals was to reduce a wide-ranging selection of all these actors, in order to identify what hinders predictability, and not least to focus on quality and quality development. The red-greens went against it, based on some sort of ideological belief that the privates were about to sweep off the track. We know there are crimes in all these types of businesses. But can the Council of State imagine taking the initiative to set up such a broad selection as we were asking for in due course?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e321	I record here asking for a pace in the matter, and then I believe that going the way of putting down a wide selection now is not the thing. We have good contact with the various actors, and it is important to me that we have good contact and are able to define what are the issues of the individual. I have had a number of meetings with voluntary and non-profit organisations, and there we get a slightly different view of what are the issues. So it will be our task to summarize this in any changes when that time comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e326	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e329	There must be limits to what a state council allows itself to say from the Parliament's pulpit, when one claims that only the red-green have been involved in the Adecco case. I just want to remind you that the Municipality of Oslo, which is governed by the citizens and with the Right in mind, immediately terminated the agreement with Adecco on the basis of the breaches of the Working Environment Act. It is in stark contrast to the way in which the red-green government handles thousands of violations of the working environment regulations in the public sector throughout the year. But my question is related to Innst. 294 S for 2009-2010, from the Health and Welfare Committee of the Stortinge, where a unanimous committee says: ‘In addition, the Committee considers that there is a need for the rapid establishment of a working group assessing the specific conditions of non-profit and non-profit institutions with a view to resolving the acute problems experienced by institutions.’; This setting was issued on 1 June 2010. Governments are busy with the tempo. When was the sample reduced?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e341	When I commented that I would like more people to be concerned with the Adecco case, it was because the representative Håbreek said there were a number of red-green politicians who had been concerned about it, and then I thought it would have been okay if also more from other parties had been concerned about it. That was the background of my comment. Yeah, we're working on the case. As I said, we haven't gone the way of putting down a sample. We work from my department to map. We've had meetings, and that's the way we've chosen to organize that work now. I think it has been a good way to do it in order to get back quite quickly with any changes, instead of – as I answered the previous question – going the way of a sample that will work on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e348	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e351	Not unexpectedly I have a question to the State Council Halvorsen. State Council Halvorsen and I have agreed that teachers are the most important thing in Norwegian school. For a while, the Education Association submitted a study showing that only 12 pst. by Norwegian teachers, they thought they would be in the job until they were retired. Yesterday came the report from the Follow-up Group on the teacher training reform, which calls for a five-year teacher training and questions when we get it, and the report also calls for the investigation that has been promised. The OECD has submitted its advice to Norwegian school, and one of their main councils is that we should have had a five-year Norwegian teacher training. I have visited everything from the University of Tromsø to the University of Eastfold. There they say they're ready as an egg to make a five-year teacher's education. They just sit and wait and set up the systems, because they think this has to come. The council has promised us a high school message, and in that message, I hope she still believes that the teacher is most important to getting to a good school. So my question is, is there, finally, a proposal for a five-year Norwegian teacher training?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e362	No, it doesn't. What is the theme of the high school notification is to get to a more practical, relevant and motivating secondary school, because we see that the motivation in upper secondary schools is strongly decreasing and never lower than at the 10th stage. But it's absolutely vital that we have good teachers to get to it -- that's the key to getting a varied and motivating education. So I'm going to get closer to what's the content of it. However, the work we are now doing on new primary school teachers is what the accompanying group has recently reported on. We want to have an accompanying group linked to this for all the time being to be able to see if we succeed in the two-part division of primary school teacher education that we have now introduced. We succeed in many areas, and we have to wake up all the way to get to what we're going to do, which is about more professional deepening of youth girls, that's at the top levels. However, it is also a subject of teacher training that prepares future teachers better for practice, which provides them with better equipment and tools to be a leader in the class, and thus provides a better learning environment. I have no new signals to give in to five-year teacher training. It has been discussed in Stortinget in the past. It's started at the University of Tromsø, and I know that others would have liked to have done it too. But we also have some problems with expanding the length of teacher training, and with recruiting teachers and making sure we get teachers out of school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e371	Maybe it would have been easier to recruit teachers with a five-year education? Maybe we'd gotten more teachers to work on a five-year education? Maybe we had managed to signal that the teacher is most important, by starting a five-year education? I believe that all the instruments of the Council of State are not really about the teacher being the most important; they are about completely different things. The fact that the teacher is most important is just a headline you use in political debates. The following group is very good. The fact that we got a two-part division is also very good, because then you start getting teachers who know their subjects. And teachers who know their subjects are the most important input into getting good learning environments and to get good results for each student – much more important than the other that the Council of State talked about. When we dealt with teacher training in 2008, the government promised to undertake a five-year teacher training, to start work, and the objective was actually to end up in the debate, to have a five-year teacher training. So the question is, is the government going to keep the word and figure this out?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e382	We're going to, of course, but right now we have our hands full of something that's a success story. So we've got the 30 pst teacher training recruit, and we have evidence that the reputation for the teaching profession, both in the general population and among new students, is rising rapidly. The teaching profession has become much more interesting, much more attractive, and now it is focused on the development of teacher training to meet the expectations of the students. Then we take the discussion of five-year teacher training in the next round. What we now focus on are the other teacher training courses – not primary school teacher training, which of course has its own course, but teacher training for 8–13. Steps, on which we now have the full focus. Here we're actually doing a job that shows very good results so far. I am absolutely sure that the representative Trine Skei Grande is pleased with us in that, that the teaching profession is becoming more attractive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e389	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Borghild Tenden.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e392	Yeah, I hear the council says we're still getting new teachers, and that's very good. But what's equally important is that we get the teachers to stay in school. The representative, Skei Grande, referred to the Education Association's study, which I hope the Council of State has got along with, and it sets out a number of measures to ensure that teachers stay in school. Having time to be a teacher is one of the measures, but pay is also important. So we're not going to get involved in the pay question, it's for the social partners. Skills and career opportunities for teachers are important. How will the Council of State help teachers to continue in school? A competence-based pay system could be wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e398	I would like to point out that the Bondevik government left the negotiating responsibility for teachers to the municipalities, so the Left has been involved in giving responsibility for two key areas that are crucial for recruitment and for keeping teachers to the municipalities. One is paid, and the other is working time. In that area, the Stortinget and the government stand without any tools. What we have instruments for is teacher training and all we can do for recruitment – it is vital that we succeed in the cooperation we have with the organisations and the parties on continuing training – and that is the job we have in getting rid of the school. We have recently addressed the timing committee's position here in Stortinget, and it is essential that we pay attention to the amount of time that we think is good ideas. And then that's what I'm also working on, that's a resource standard for the school. When I see how many teachers there are that go off with AFP, etc., I know that they will appreciate having fewer students to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e403	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e406	It's not that easy to understand this for a poor banker's representative. On the one hand, higher teacher density is required to be legislated, and on the other hand, five-year teacher training is considered to prevent satisfactory numbers of teachers in school. But we know a lot, and we have great ambitions for school. Common to all the ambitions of school is that qualitatively good teachers are what they need to achieve these ambitions. We also know that learning didactics and subjects at the same time is an advantage, and we know that five-year teacher training is actually a great advantage in the school. Then I understand that you can't say that you have the ambition to solve this tomorrow. But is it an ambition for the government to put this in place in the long term, that all teachers in Norway will receive five-year teacher training in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e415	It would never happen to me to call the representative Tord Lien ‘a poor giant’. To that end, we have too many interesting rounds in Stortinget about what is most crucial for our future, namely that we succeed in upgrading the entire knowledge cycle, not least primary and secondary education. I don't have any new signals to give now in terms of five-year teacher training, but we have a lot of work going on to get the new elementary school teacher training of such quality and with such a content that the students who start there – and that is 30 pst. more than before – meets demanding, challenging and developing teacher training. Because that's what I'm sure has meaning both for how long they're going to be, and for how they're going to do their job. And then we have this comprehensive scheme of continuing education. We are now also doing the other teacher training. Then we're going to get back to the rate at which we can complete five-year teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e424	Elisabeth Aspaker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e427	Few will challenge the OECD's competence in the field of education. When, in its recommendations to Norway, the OECD is so clear about introducing stricter requirements for teaching and greater professional immersion, I have two questions to the Council of State. Firstly, skills requirements for teachers have been consulted. Is it now that we want to listen to the OECD and introduce competence requirements for all teachers from 1st class in Norwegian school, in the light of what the OECD says? Secondly, when the Council of State does not propose masters, will the government, instead, help to get further and further training, then it really monstrels? Today, the bet on the spot rests, despite the fact that seven out of ten teachers in Norwegian school experience a clear need for professional replenishment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e436	First of all, I think the recommendations made by the OECD are very simplistic. We have asked the OECD to assist us with a separate research group related to the reporting of high school. It is an exciting group that we discuss with and get recommendations from, but the final recommendations have not come. But the core of what we're discussing is the quality of the teachers, who we're recruiting, how they're going to evolve, and what kind of competence they have. We have just introduced skills requirements for part of primary school teachers. We start there, because it is quite demanding to meet the formal requirements of competence that we are now introducing. In the case of continuing training, we, together with the parties with whom we have so far developed this scheme, have agreed on changes in the way this is being implemented, which makes it possible to use more decentralised services. And then, of course, we follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e445	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e448	Discussing the length of a teacher's education doesn't give us better teachers. The content of teacher training must be important. The Christian People's Party is concerned that the practical part was no longer extended in the teacher training we have now adopted through Stortinget. The critical point – to go back to the first question that was asked in this case, namely, that we cannot keep the teachers, or that they do not choose the teaching profession – is the first year in the teaching profession: what is it that we should be able to get them to continue in school, to want to continue in the job they have trained for? The Christian People's Party has a proposal for a mandatory mentoring system. Instead, the government has chosen to introduce a voluntary mentoring scheme, which provides no obligations or a system and structure for teachers to benefit from. In view of the need to get people into the teaching profession, will the Council of State now consider putting this into a mandatory setting?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e457	We have asked for an overview from the municipalities of how many there are who have a guidance system or a mentoring system in place, and how many there are who are planning to introduce it. It gives a pretty optimistic picture. This is something that the municipalities are concerned about. In a lot of municipalities, they've got it done. But we closely follow up on this, because it doesn't say so much about what kind of quality there is on the offer of guidance that is given. So there's actually two tracks we have to follow here. One thing is, are we sure that everyone gets? The second is, what kind of offers are they going to get? I fully agree with the representative of Dagrun Eriksen that this is about having a good teacher training, but also a good follow-up, especially in the first few years, because it is when you really get burned up and see if you succeed and have the tool you need. In this context, a guidance system is very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e466	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e470	I have a question for the Minister of Renewal. Norway is known as a high-cost country. We have high wages in Norway, we have high taxes and taxes in Norway, and we have high transport costs in Norway. It makes it expensive to produce goods and services in this country. Of course, then, it is very important that we are effective, that we are innovative and that we are constantly renewing ourselves. Unfortunately, since the red-green regime took over in 2005, little or nothing has happened when it comes to renewal, from the government's side. It's a shame, it's sad, and it's also serious. Because at the same time as we're in the village in Norway, most other countries do a lot when it comes to renewal. It applies both in Europe and in other parts of the world. Even the Communist regime in Cuba is doing much more than the red-green government in Norway when it comes to renewal. Recently, President Raul Castro announced a public sector renewal programme to gradually release a total of 500,000 members of the public administration for the benefit of the private sector. This will, of course, mean a reduction in public expenditure and an increase in revenue. It will strengthen the economy of the state of Cuba and make Cuba better equipped for the future. Then my question to the Council of State is, Is the Minister of Renewal comfortable with the fact that the Communist regime in Cuba is more engrossed in renewal than the red-green regime in Norway is?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e481	I thought it was a strange comparison, but I can assure the representative Hagesetter that we are doing an active renewal work in Norway. Much has happened in the last five years. Among the last things that have been delivered by the government in that area is that we have changed the audit obligation for many small businesses. It's very important to a lot of small businesses, which are getting their burdens off. Then, fortunately, there's quite a lot of work going on in the administration, where we make changes in the way we run the administration. We can think of examples of what has been going on for some time – what the Tax Agency has done with tax returns, and what the Loan Fund has done. But fortunately, there are now many other electronic attempts, which make us have a more efficient administration in the future. Among other things, we now have electronic visa applications at foreign stations, saving resources on the 130 000 visa applications that have been submitted every year. That's how you can go through the area. But I agree that we still have to keep the pressure on the renewal work. I am now particularly concerned that we are getting a grip on the municipal sector. There are 430 Norwegian municipalities that do things too much on their own. I have started a work with the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the KS to review what we are doing in the municipal sector. KS has now taken a decision that also wants a more central approach to how we are making changes in the municipal sector in terms of using ICT solutions in municipalities. It's a work I'll follow up very carefully, because I think it's very much to pick up. I received a report last Friday saying something about that there is a lot of money to save in that area too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e496	I record that a lot of work has been started, but I did not think we saw so much result from that work. When it comes to the audit obligation, it is a positive measure that the Progress Party has been looking for for for many years. But here, too, we're coming across the other Nordic countries, and I think we were too late out. Fortunately, when it comes to electronic renewal – ICT – something happens. That's just supposed to be missing. But neither are we particularly offensive here. I could imagine knowing a little bit more about that work. What time can we get the result of this work that you've been doing? So the red-green government took over in 2005, one has had a long time, both to get work started and to get work done. Then the question is, when can we wait to get the result of this work that you're doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e505	The results are continuous. We now have an electronic free card test scheme in two municipalities. It will be introduced when the trial period is over. We have now been introduced that all reimbursements of health expenditure – excesses – are given to us as a gift card directly in the post. It works. Nav has launched a service where you get your pension applications processed online. The system of reporting online thefts has been implemented. We call people into session to the military through the net. We are now introducing a system from 1 July this year for all invoices to be sent to the country by electronic means. This allows you to frame different actions that are put into action on an ongoing basis. I think it's important that we have an ongoing approach to this where we go through the sector and get new electronic solutions in place. There will be many, and there will be more in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e510	Follow-up questions are given – first Åge Starheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e513	For a while, former Minister of Agriculture Sponheim said: every man's hen. Now the farmers can say something similar: every farmer's bureaucracy. The number of farmers has fallen dramatically in recent years, even under the red-green government, without one saying that the same has happened in the Ministry of Agriculture. In my opinion, it is absolutely necessary for one to do something about the bureaucracy in the state. My question to the Council of State is therefore: does the Council of State have concrete plans to reduce, modernise and streamline its bureaucracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e520	Yes, we have concrete plans to reduce bureaucracy in the way that we want to use, as I said in my previous answer, many new digital services. This enables us to free labour to other tasks that are important to our users. When we're able to halve the number of people working with health benefits in the directorate, that means that we can free people to work with jobs that Nav didn't have people in the past. That's how we have to go through the area and see if we can take out efficiency gains. As far as the Ministry of Agriculture is concerned, as far as I remember, it is one of the few departments that actually have a decline in their operating expenditure. This suggests that a good job has been done to change the forms of work in that department. Yes, there are plans to take many renewal measures in the different departments. This means that we free labour to areas where it is important to have the labour force in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e529	Michael Tetzschner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e532	It is common to refer to ICT tools when talking about efficiency in the country. Unfortunately, I had to report a bicycle theft and then got an automatic stowage without any human being in between. When I then called the police station to find out how this could be, they said that I should probably only have a confirmation against my insurance company. So no investigation was actually carried out, but I guess I didn't expect that either. My question is more specific: The Ministry of Renewal posted on its website an invitation to come to the department with ideas on how to run the state simpler. That's what they did on November 28th. It's been three months. I wonder if you've got ideas from the public, since you've obviously gotten away with good ideas yourself?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e539	Yes, we've got good ideas from the public. I think that we listen to those who are our users, must be some of the things that are important. The fact that we are user-righting the state, leaving users at the centre, so that users can also point to areas where there is a need for change, I believe is a necessary measure for us to be able to operate our administration as efficiently as possible in the future. So it's also the way we work with a number of other areas, which I've been involved in here, and I could draw up a lot more examples of how we're working now in order to apply especially ICT solutions in order to run our administration more effectively. But I think it's a good thing to listen to the users, about how we're going to simplify and operate our administration better in the future. We've got a lot of good ideas that we're going to take care of and work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e546	So the oral question procedure is over. Before we go to the ordinary Questionnaire, the President could imagine giving the opportunity for the promotion of a representative proposal. The representative, Jan Tore Sanner, is physically present and will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e552	I thank you for the flexibility and not least for the opportunity to think through the matter again. I have come to the conclusion that it is a very good proposal that I would like to make on behalf of the big business representatives Sonja Irene Sjøli, Bent Höie and myself, which is about VAT compensation for housing laws that are part of the municipal health and care service.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e557	The representative of Mr Sonja Irene Sjøli would also like to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e560	On behalf of the representatives of Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, Svein Harberg, Olemic Thommessen and myself, I would like to make a proposal for enhanced contact with the home and more time for the children through the use of digital aids in the nursery.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e565	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e577	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 5, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister at the Prime Minister's office, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance, who is directly responsible. Questions 8 and 9 from the representative Torgeir Tåldal and Per Roar Bredvold, respectively, to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State is suffering from disease. Question 12, from the representative Line Henriette Hemdal to the oil and energy minister, has been withdrawn. Question 13, from the representative Siri A. Meling to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 14, from Mr Solvik-Olsen's representative to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left. At the request of the Minister for Transport, this question is moved and answered in response to question 2, to be answered by the same Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e598	I have the following questions: ‘The fact that a billion dollars for the purpose of transport is unused has provoked many people. The evidence report of the fait accompli to the new national transport plan shows that environmental challenges and increased migration to our major cities mean that the state needs to contribute more to the development of public transport. All parties are now spending more and more money on transportation, but what's equally important is how wise this money is spent. In the evening post on Wednesday, 9 March, the Director wishes to see a more comprehensive development and increased competition. Do the Council of State agree to this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e612	There have been a number of press releases that the 2010 permits for commercial purposes were not used up. I can assure the representative that the projects are being carried out and the money spent. In relation to the collection of available funds of about $9.6 billion. NOK 396 million from the Railway Agency’s budget for 2010. kr. In 2010, the investment budget had a net minor consumption of approximately 645 million. NOK – approximately 230 million. kr of these because the completion of some projects turned out to be cheaper than what was budgeted for 2010, and the rest, about 415 million. kr, due to delays in progress on started-up investment projects. In particular, this is due to the fact that the Railway Agency still lacks signal people. The amount of SEK 415 million. kr will be transferred to 2011 in accordance with the normal procedure for the priority projects. The savings resulting from reduced costs have been used for operation and maintenance as an additional effort to improve the operational stability of train traffic. In this way, we could avoid the same winter problems as in 2009–2010. This year's winter, when it comes to the weather, is much like last year's winter. However, the operating problems in train traffic are very close. I would like to say in this context that the re-disposal has been very successful. The available transport permissions should be used in a wise way. This is what is meant by the national transport plan, which aims to give a holistic priority to resource use across the various modes of transport, while at the same time providing an indication of how resources should be prioritised internally in the individual sector over a 10-year period. In the context of a new national transport plan in 2013, it will include: be important to assess the development strategy of the Norwegian network, as the railway manager arranges in his interview with the Evening Post. It shall apply, inter alia, to: major inter-city interconnections with dual-track deployments and the possible organisation and financing of the deployment. It is now possible, as a basis for the work of the National Transport Plan, to provide a range of services under the direction of the Railway Agency for which the Ministry of Transport has taken the initiative. A consequence of a more coherent dual-track development of the intercity sections of the Austland and a greater distribution of the construction of high-speed trains between the major cities of South Norway is two of several examples. I am busy with the railway station operating its business as efficiently as possible. If the railway manager believes that this can be done through increased competition for railway projects, including: is not negative for the safety within the railway, I take it with me in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e627	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I want to get back to it a little bit, because I don't think she answered completely what I asked for. There are many good purposes to spending money on in the transport sector. Monday last week I had the pleasure to drive with the Urban Railway in Bergen in the rush hour. I could see with my own eyes what success this was. I hope the Council of State has also driven this path. The left was in government a strong driver of the Urban Railway. Now the big plans in Bergen for expansion towards Flesland, then towards Åsane, which will include the Norwegian School of Commerce, and later to the Filling Valley via Haukeland Hospital. However, track solutions are very expensive, which the Council of State is certainly aware of. Is urban development a priority for the Council of State, and if not, does the Council have any idea of how the financing issue can be resolved, so that important urban development can be realised?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e636	It might be interesting to air this with the urban runway in a slightly larger context than as part of the smaller consumption in 2010. But let me stress that in Soria Moria II it says that it's government's responsibility to make sure that the county councils have the means to secure a good collective offer, including funds to the urban railway where it's relevant. There is a problem that needs to be highlighted more in the context of work on a new national transport plan. It's about hard resources, this, so it has to go, as the representative Tende is about, a closer discussion of priorities than we've had the opportunity to do so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e645	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I am fully aware that it is the responsibility of the county council, but there are now many positive signals, among others. by the road director, Terje Moe Gustavsen. He says that population growth and higher incomes will lead to increased traffic mainly in metropolitan areas, and that therefore collective action is necessary. The railway manager wants a more comprehensive development, as I mentioned in my question, and she also wants more competition. If the evening post on 10 March quoted the Minister for Transport right, she supports this. Can the Minister for Transport say a little more specifically what she thinks about future financing and increased competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e654	As a basis for the work on the new National Transport Plan, the Ministry of Transport has ordered a separate distribution under the heading ‘cost-benefit’, how we use it today, and whether there are alternative ways to use it. We have also ordered a distribution based on experience with different forms of funding from other countries. When it comes to the railway, I would say that the railway manager is now thinking exciting thoughts that we will be able to discuss more closely in connection with a new national transport plan. It is also important to further develop the contract strategies that they have today and to develop a viable supply market. Then I will answer a clear yes, I think the state has to contribute to a greater extent than today, with the support of urban railways.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e665	‘There have been questions as to whether it is possible to obtain a more coordinated and long-term presentation of the route offer in Norway, so that tour operators who are totally dependent on planning on a longer horizon know which routes are running, and not least when. For a nation such as Norway with many ferry routes, fast boats and not least many good experiences in the districts, it is necessary to be able to coordinate and plan better in the transport sector than today. Will the Council of State take such an initiative with regard to scheduling?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e672	I understand that the tourism industry wants long-term scheduling. Tourists are an important part of public transporters in many places. This must be taken into account in the scheduling process. At the same time, public transport must be set up in such a way that all travellers can be handled in a good way, regardless of who the travellers are. Long-term scheduling means locking schedules over several years. This results in a slowness that may prevent natural market uptake and supply development during the defined routing periods. If a timetable to be in force for one year is to be maintained for one year before its entry into force, that means that the timetable is locked for at least two years – one year in advance plus the year in which it will be in force. It will hardly be felt as flexible by either local government, local users, central government or operators. Travel needs must therefore be assessed against the needs of other industries and what will be best for all travellers, including those who are not tourists. For commercial routes – aircraft, express buses and ferry routes abroad – the concept of operation requires that one has to adapt to the market. It may and will be necessary for the operators of these routes to be able to change the routes in line with market changes without having to wait several years to make the changes possible. Routes organised through public purchases must also adapt to changes in the commercial market. This requires that all industry operators provide new timetables on a common date. I do not agree that the timetable in the transport sector is not good today. The county councils, which are responsible for the local regular services in each state, coordinate all their routes and adapt them to the local needs. The representative Nesvik mentions ferries and speedboats in particular. The experience is that the route changes in the ferry sector are small and small. Most of them come from changes in routes to other public transport. In the longer term, the trend in the ferry sector has been several departures, as part of a better supply. However, let me point out that scheduling and coordination can and should be improved. I would like to assess whether there is a requirement for timetable to be established and announced earlier in relation to what is being practised today. I want to see this in conjunction with the Ministry's ongoing work with a national travel planner. The project has so far included the distribution and anchoring of an organisation for the establishment of a national, competitively neutral public transport travel planner. Municipalities, transport networks and public transport providers are involved in the establishment and operation of the travel planner as a split layer and a collaborative project. There is a consensus that a national data base based on current regional flight planners should be established. It is planned to establish this planner in 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e689	The Council of State was present at the NHO on 10 February of this year and was presented with the journey life promise. The council itself had the word and introduction to the matter. I was present and heard the council say that she would just look at what had to do with these schedules. It is in this respect that I ask questions about what has been done and whether you want to do something, or whether you want to look at it in connection with the national scheduler. Let me challenge the Council of State just at one point. It is said that a digital national travel planner should be developed, and it should apply from 2012. When would you like to see the draft of such a timetable? And then you want to make sure that it's national, that is. that it does not depend on state boundaries, as today’s timetables are?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e696	I can't go into the details of progress right now, i.e. when a draft will be ready. What I can say is that one is impatient after getting this in place. As I have already said, on the one hand, there are certain obstacles here, both in terms of time and in relation to changes in the market, which are relevant to changing schedules and coordinating schedules. At the same time, it is quite obvious that there is a need for better coordination than today. One is impatient to get this travel planner in place. And if he's going to be national, he has to go across state boundaries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e701	But if it is to apply from 2012, we have to deal with 1 January 2012. Then it's time to start seeing the outlines of the work that's been done, and not least the input into what it's going to include. Will it then be ensured that there is a ticket booking system in connection with this travel planner? Will you make sure that today’s system gets better? If you're in Bodø in Northland and you're going to Tromsø, and you put it in 177, you're told that Tromsø is an unknown place because it's not in the county, and vice versa. It shows the hopelessness of today's system. So the question to the Council of State is this: Will a ticket booking system be set up? And will it be possible to make a decision at the latest in the budget, so that it will apply from 1 January 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e710	Let me first say that the representative Nesvik himself refers to an excellent example of how it shouldn't be. So when it comes to detailed planning, it's the county councils, the transport networks and the public transport providers that work together. This is a work that is currently in progress, both with the establishment itself and with the pre-post-fects that must be done there, and how to operate. On question No. 2, which applies to the 2012 budget, my answer is yes. My intention is that this planner will be in place in 2012. This means that there must be a basis for decision in the 2012 State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e719	The size now goes to question 14.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e726	This question, from the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Transport on behalf of the Minister for Oil and Energy, who has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e729	‘The further development of the oil nation of Norway is important. Prime Minister Stoltenberg concluded in the Questionnaire on 16 February 2011 that new investigations may be needed to meet the requirements of an impact assessment in the North and that an impact assessment programme must be drawn up. Should an impact assessment involve new investigations if the professional community believes that information already obtained is sufficient and how quickly can a satisfactory impact assessment be carried out?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e736	Before a new area of Norwegian continental shelf can be opened for petroleum activity, petroleum slag and petroleum regulations require the Ministry of Oil and Energy to carry out an impact assessment. The impact analysis shall describe the effects of opening the new petroleum business area, the different possible options for future petroleum activity in the area, and their impact. The extraction should be based on a defined consistency editor. The programme shall clarify the conditions under which consistency is to be achieved, including the arrangements necessary to provide a sound basis for decision-making. The draft Impact Assessment Programme shall be sent on a public hearing for at least six weeks. The final application will be determined on the basis of the comments received. The self impact assessment will be carried out on the basis of the definition of the impact assessment programme and will be adapted to the specific subject matter in terms of content, scope and detail. It follows from the petroleum law, regulation and administrative provisions that the impact assessment shall be based as far as possible on the knowledge provided and the necessary updating thereof. This means that the department of the hearing process associated with the draft Impact Assessment Programme will clarify what knowledge already exists and what knowledge may need to be updated or provided. To the extent that the professional environment in question is certain that the knowledge in question is adequate, it should be used as far as possible as part of the impact assessment. The speed with which an impact assessment can be carried out for the opening of new areas of petroleum activity in the north will therefore depend on the knowledge to be updated in the areas concerned, possibly the amount of new knowledge to be acquired.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e753	After I submitted my question last Thursday, the government has submitted its management plan. In particular, the Prime Minister’s signals have been relatively offensive in relation to the possibility of carrying out an impact assessment quickly after the next elections. The problem with the Prime Minister is that he himself cannot agree to that decision as long as he has an SV on the hook, but that will be his problem. The Progress Party, which wants to carry out an impact assessment quickly in order to access resources in a viable and sustainable way, needs a small clarification from the government. Does one believe that there are obvious gaps in knowledge today that the government is conducting in relation to the management plan that has now been submitted? Is the obvious knowledge gap in which investigations have not been initiated? Or can one assume that if everything goes well with the investigations, one has the knowledge you need in 2013 to meet the knowledge needs that will report?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e760	It's a little strange for me to stand here and do things for the procedures related to exactly the consequences, because I know that the representative Solvik-Olsen is well aware of that. It allows him to re-examine a view that is well-known, i.e. the Progress Party's favorite. I am replying today on behalf of a new oil and energy minister, and my advice will be to read the documents that were submitted by the government on Friday, which do not matter what knowledge is now to be acquired by different departments, and possibly to take this further with the responsible Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e767	Now it was not I who chose that the Minister of Oil and Energy would not meet in the United Kingdom today, it is the government's choice. The reason why I'm dealing with this is that on 16 February the Prime Minister gave the impression that there were a lot of formal processes that had to be carried out, and that one could not just collect existing investigations, summarize them and make an impact assessment. But the signals he came up with last Friday were that here all the investigations would be in place, they could only be cut and glued, with a professionally weighted correct, into a failure of impact, and that thus one would not lose time. So he's given two different signals in just a month's time. That's his -- let's say -- good way to be approximate to get away from any difficult situation. However, for those who will rule after 2013, it is interesting to know whether the government is able to identify that they are going into all areas where one knows that knowledge is needed, or whether one consciously omits some areas in order to be able to train progress in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e776	Now, both the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Environment will carry out their part of the knowledge acquisition on the effects and ring-fences of increased investment in value creation, such as: travel and fisheries-related activities, in addition to what the Ministry of Oil and Energy itself is required to acquire from more knowledge. In total, all current knowledge should be used as a basis for the next update of the management plan. This is a work that will be started quickly. I have no reason to believe that there are areas where there is currently a lack of knowledge, which are deliberately kept away from the work to be done. There will be a broader basis for the next management plan update. There's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e783	So we go back to question 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e790	‘The professional community and user organisations report that access to detoxification facilities for addicts in Oslo has deteriorated in recent years, especially for alcohol addicts. In the new system, drug addicts must be referred, to be assessed by an admission team, before being offered detoxification or emergency facilities. This requires so much from the patient that some patients’ right to specialist treatment is not followed up. What will the Council of State do with this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e797	It is clear from the Patient Rights Act and the prioritisation Regulation that, on the basis of a referral from a doctor or social service, the health status of the drug addict referred to should be assessed and the right to necessary health care provided. If the state of health is considered to be acute, he/she will be offered an emergency injection. Data from the 2010 Norwegian patient register show that about 22,500 patients were referred to drug treatment in 2010. Almost 85 pst. were entitled to the necessary health care and only a small proportion were deemed to be acute. Regional health establishments shall provide sufficient capacity for the provision of drug addicts, both in terms of immediate assistance and follow-up treatment. With regard to the immediate and emergency services in Oslo for patients with drug problems, Health South-East informs that there is now a good and predictable availability for immediate help and rapid evaluation at the specialist level of the need for further treatment. The opening of the rusakutt reception and the subsequent co-location with the detoxification department at Aker University Hospital are a significant professional strengthening and conversion of the offer within the emergency and detoxification unit in Oslo. Instead of purely detoxification, there are now daily receptions with 13 places for emergency accommodation and 40 places for detoxification. According to Health South-East, anyone in need of a detoxification department in the context of an acute crisis situation gets this through today's emergency services at Oslo University Hospital. It is open to all those who need it, and there is also an opportunity for drug addicts to seek out the drug-free reception. According to Health South-East, these will receive help and guidance, so that partners are connected to ensure that referral for planned detoxification is dealt with in accordance with the applicable legislation. Of course, if the health status is assessed as acute by such self-infliction, the patient will be admitted. As regards the offer to patients with alcohol problems in Oslo, Oslo University Hospital reports that the average occupancy rate at detoxification sites in 2010 was 60–70. It is further evident from the information provided by Health South-East that the Rusakutt reception has established close and good cooperation with the Rusakutt reception at the Law Office in Oslo, and that patients are transferred from the Legacy Act to the Rusakutt reception, if necessary. Of the patients who come to the study at the Rusakoutt reception, not everyone wants or needs to be admitted to a detoxification department. I perceive the feedback I have received from Health South-East so that they closely follow developments and have a great focus on and preparedness to ensure the necessary capacity in connection with the conversion of the emergency and detoxification apparatus carried out in Oslo. No drug addicts in need of detoxification or emergency treatment shall be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e812	When Rusakutten was established in Oslo with 13 new emergencies, I don't think there was anyone who thought it would be partly financed by one downing 12 and 17 charging sites, respectively. This means that, in reality, the capacity of charging sites in Oslo is now reduced by 29. Instead, one has received 13 emergencies. But in those emergencies, there's no detoxification. This means that there will be a further assessment before a charging slot, if any. In the description of this from Oslo University Hospital, it is said that those who use illicit drugs are to be given priority. This means that alcoholics, who were able to walk in and get detoxification in the past, can no longer do this. Does the Minister of Health think this is a good arrangement?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e819	The same legislation applies to drug addicts as to all other people who are ill. If they need urgent help, if they need emergency hospitalization, they'll get it. They have the same right to treatment and help as everyone else. Then it is not a matter of having the capacity to receive someone at the emergency room. If someone is considered to enter the emergency room, they should have room. What we have at least been told from Oslo University Hospital now and from Health South-East is that because they have a balance between emergency and these detoxification sites, they have a capacity, and they count their capacity to be good. But it's clear that we'll always follow up on this, because it's important that those who need it experience that they get exactly the same treatment and preparedness as everyone else. I just want to repeat what I said again, that in terms of the occupancy rate at the detoxification sites in 2010, it was down to 60–70.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e828	I am perfectly aware that on paper, addicts have the same rights as all other patients. However, if that right is to have a real content, paper rights must be handled differently for this patient group than for example. Somatic patients waiting for knee surgery. There is a clear feedback from the trade union community in Oslo that the availability of detoxification for the worn-out alcoholics in Oslo has become worse after this conversion. What is it in the patient base in Oslo that makes one feel that 29 detoxification sites in the specialist health service in Oslo have disappeared? There is nothing in the patient base that suggests that there is a need for fewer detoxification sites, on the contrary. One should maintain the same number as before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e835	I just want to repeat what I said, that the capacity is considered to be good. But of course, we depend on patients both being referred and being brought in, whether it's urgent or by referral from a medical officer or an intern. I would also like to stress that in the mission document I have asked specifically for the treatment of drug addicts, because they have previously also fallen away from the auxiliary device. The offer has not been good enough. We're concerned that regardless of whether they're picked up by an ambulance in the event of an overdose, or other emergency services, they're going to get emergency help. This is important, because this is a vulnerable group that we're working on in the best way possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e846	‘As from 1 January 2010, health undertakings assumed responsibility for the municipal midwife preparedness/accompaniment service. Pregnancy with more than 11⁄2 hours until birth is entitled to follow-up service. There are now enquiries from many municipalities, including: from Meland, which indicates that health businesses do not take full responsibility for this and that it results in a reduction in the supply to the midwives in the municipality and region. What will the Council of State do to follow up the decision of the Storting on a sound follow-up service?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e853	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli was a knowledgeable case rapporteur when, in 2009, the Stortinget discussed the spillage announcement A happy event, about a continuous maternity, maternity and maternity care. In the vote, the majority of Stortingen argued that as a general rule, local midwifery should continue to be a municipal responsibility. The majority also favoured agreements on various forms of cooperation on responsibilities across municipalities and health enterprises. As the representative is aware, the offer of accompanying services has not been equivalent in all municipalities. The purpose of transferring responsibility for the accompanying service to regional health establishments was to create a clear responsibility position. Regional health businesses are already responsible for all health services, including the ambulance service, and from 1 January 2010 they were also responsible for the accompanying service. The quality requirements of the Directorate of Health for the care of the child are based on the need for 24-hour continuous care and follow-up services with an hour and a half of travel to the place of birth as an indicative limit. In order to ensure a proper follow-up service, it may be necessary, according to the supervisor, for undertakings to enter into agreements with municipalities on local vigilance. The follow-up service shall be organised in cooperation with local and specialist health services, with pre-hospital services such as medical and ambulance services and community midwifery services. The municipality's responsibility for maternity care and follow-up after birth is unchanged. It is the responsibility of the accompanying service that has been added to health care establishments. Together, those responsible for the whole, regional health companies and municipalities must find the best organisation. In the case in question, there has been a disagreement regarding the organisation of accompanying services in North Hordland, especially in five municipalities. Health West shall ensure that accompanying services for pregnant women in the region are equivalent and in line with national professional recommendations. At a shorter distance from the birth institution than one and a half hours, as is the case in some of these municipalities, it may be appropriate to organise the follow-up service so that a watchful midwife in the hospital moves into an ambulance, if necessary, in consultation with AMK. Health Bergen and the relevant municipalities need to work together to find solutions that ensure the overall and quality of the provision of pregnant and pregnant women, including follow-up services.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e868	I thank you for your answer. I do not think that there was any clear and clear follow-up from the Council of State. It's not just in the five municipalities. We have received a message from the Norwegian midwifery association saying this applies to the whole country. Municipalities notify notices of terminations of midwives who are on standby and have accompanying duties. In St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009, the National Council for Paternity Care said that ‘the follow-up service must have competence in basic birth care’, etc., ‘complications, as well as caring for the newborn’. But the ministry says in the same big news that in practice there will be midwives, but that ‘other occupational groups may also be involved’. What other professional groups do the Council of State consider to have the necessary competence to take this responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e877	Where appropriate, it must be considered in the individual case. You get a follow-up service when it's an hour and a half travel distance or more. I must say that I am very well known in the West and in the municipalities around Bergen, and I cannot understand that it is from the municipality of Meland. So I'm going to make reservations about the extreme limits of Meland, but this is the nearest municipality to Bergen. And there are many within the borders of the municipality of Bergen who have a shorter route to Haukeland than you have from the centre of Meland. So that's what's leading. Then I am very concerned that both maternity and maternity care as well as the help of birthers should be good, and then I believe that the best thing is that good agreements are made between the municipal midwives and the health care company. I'm absolutely sure they'll be able to do that in this context as well. However, in Meland and in other municipalities, the guidelines that have been the guide for the treatment of the wholesale notification are being followed, and the Health Directorate is developing further professional guidelines for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e886	As I said, it's not just the municipality of Meland, to which the Council of State refers. In many municipalities throughout the country, the birthers have far more than an hour and a half to the maternity ward. Then it's about who should be responsible for the follow-up service. I have to say that when I know that the department has proposed professional neutrality, I'm quite concerned. Then there is uncertainty as to what is sufficient competence in the performance of each service and as to whether the requirement of soundness becomes a designation of a minimum quality standard or a minimum standard. Of course it can't be like that. Responsibilities must be viewed against the concept of ‘good practice’ and not against a limit value against the illegal. If it becomes professional neutrality, it becomes uncertain who can take this responsibility. I'm going to promise you that as a midwife, I know what responsibility it is to stand out in the districts and be responsible for following women who can feed along the way to hospitals. It's not anyone who can do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e891	The representative is now anticipating the new Health and Care Act. I just want to say that in terms of professional neutrality, which was out at the hearing, this is not about exemptions from competence – it is not at all. It is not a question of exemption from quality either. It is very important that quality requirements and competences are followed closely, but it is also important to talk about how municipalities organise together. In dealing with the big message for which the representative Sjøli himself was the case rapporteur, it was said that municipalities can cooperate here. Here one can also cooperate with municipal midwives, they may have a readiness. But responsibility for the accompanying service for them with more than one and a half hours of travel lies with the health care company. I have also heard that other municipalities – which are better examples than Meland – have asked questions about this in Meland, after all, not too long to go to Haukeland. This is something that we follow up, of course, because it is important that birthing women have the security that when they have a long way, they should have accompanying services.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e904	This question, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the minister at the Prime Minister's office, will be answered by the Minister of Finance who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e907	I note that the Minister of Finance is the Minister of Coordination. The question is equally full: ‘Large projects of national and/or regional importance often lack coordination between the various sectors and departments concerned in order to ensure socio-economic benefits. This applies to both management and infrastructure investments. When conditions affected by several ministries obviously affect both the project economy and socio-economic benefits, there is often the absence of state governance from the Supreme Government. What are the Government’s objectives, strategy and measures to ensure better coordination?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e916	The Minister of Finance is probably an important Minister of Coordination in important areas affecting the state's finances, and I believe what the questioner is asking about is a question of good governance of the state's resources and the state's finances. So I think it's going to be okay. The government submitted St.meld. No 19 for 2008-2009, Ein Regierung für Demokratie und Gemeinschaft, in which it drew up important guidelines for governance and coordination in central government. It is described, inter alia: the principles of good achievement of the objectives and the instruments of government focus on contributing to better coordination and governance in management. The Government is the central coordinating body of central government. All important matters shall be submitted to the Government and the Council of State responsible. Things that have financial and administrative implications shall be submitted to the government. The Trade Union Councils are responsible for preparing the cases and ensuring that all relevant aspects of a case are identified. In order to ensure that this is done, several guidelines and procedures have been established for the preparation of the case. One of the most important points in this is that the case is to be submitted to the state councils that may have an interest in the matter. When the matter is brought before the government, it is central that the file should always be based on the best knowledge of the coherence between objectives and the instrument. Therefore, the impact to be investigated is required. These requirements include, inter alia: laid down by the Royal Resolution and by guidelines for the preparation of matters for the Government by the Prime Minister's Office. In order to ensure that the government has a sound decision-making basis in the treatment of large investment projects, these projects are quality assured by independent, external environments. As part of the quality assurance of the choice of concepts, as it is called, the so-called KS 1 investigation, which is based on the concept itself and the content of the investment to be made, must be carried out. A need analysis is also being carried out. An important purpose of this analysis is to find out who are interested in the project in question, including those outside the sector within the scope of the project budget. In the further investigation of such projects, attention has also been paid to safeguarding the interests of other stakeholders, including: through the organisation and management of projects. It is a broad quality assessment that takes place when government and large-scale investment projects are presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e931	Thank you for your answer, which is mostly about investigation and little about coordination and care for socio-economic interests. With the Hardanger masts as a back carpet, I have an example showing the need for coordination. In Northern Hordland a new power line is planned between Mongstad in Lindås and Kollsnes in Øygarden through the municipalities of Radøy, Meland and Askøy. A new road link, the Cross-Connection, is also planned between the same points and through the same municipalities, which will provide the Bergens region with a hard to reach outer bypass. My question will then be: will the Minister of Finance ensure coordination in order to put new cable powerlines along new roads instead of new masters in a flat coastal landscape?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e938	With regard to the specific matter raised by the representative, I ask for an understanding that we must come back to that when all aspects of it are resolved, and one is ready for a decision. However, as an example of good coordination between large public projects, I would like to point out what has now been proposed in the context of the continuation of E6 northwards towards Hamar and Lillehammer, while at the same time building double tracks on the same route. Here one should now assume that it will be a common performance – one may, for example: moving mass from road to rail – so that one sees these two major projects in the context. It is a good way to ensure good progress in projects, while ensuring a more cost-effective implementation of that type of project. It'll see more of it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e945	Yes, that is a good example. My example is that when you still have to dig for the road, you can actually also dig down the cable. But the point is that one is investigated and implemented independently of the other project. This is where the need for coordination at the overall level comes in. Both of these projects, i.e. the power line project and the road project, have a common time horizon. The goal is to be finished in 2016. So that's a good starting point. When the previous Minister of Energy, Riis-Johansen, answered questions about this on 3 March, the conclusion was that it is up to one party whether coordination is possible. There is, of course, an answer that suggests little willingness to take active responsibility for coordination at the overall level. So I repeat, is it the government's political will to look at projects like this to ensure that it is actually coordinated where coordination is possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e954	Without further commenting on the project in question, the answer is yes, where there are opportunities to gain from the interconnection of large projects, and where there is a significant element of government funding in both parts, better coordination will in many cases make sense – the same with respect to the execution of the projects in question. It is precisely this that the internal procedure is available to find out, so that the various government councils who know that they have a type of project that also crosses the projects of other government councils bring it forward, so that the government can look at such things together. We work on this in the government in several areas, to get better contracts, more predictable implementation and good progress in projects. This is a high priority area for the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e963	‘It is a well-known issue that a wide range of research projects considered to be ‘excellent’ and ‘extraordinary good’ by the Research Council do not receive support. According to the Evening Post of 7 March, several of the universities have now decided to set aside their own funds for the free competitive area for the best research, provided that the Biggest is set aside as much. How will the Council of State facilitate this to become a reality?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e970	It is important to balance the thematic research efforts with sufficient funding for open arenas where unexpected findings can be further developed. Good original projects should have an arena to seek funds where they should not be rejected because they fall outside a predefined theme. It is positive that universities want to contribute to such an open competitive area above their own budgets. It's a clear signal of how important universities think it is to strengthen this arena. Such a collective commitment is a good exploitation of the quality assessment work already carried out by the International Experts of the Research Council. There is a high potential in the treated ranked applications for this arena. So I would like to say that the Ministry of Knowledge has already prioritised the open competitive area of the Research Council, by strengthening it by 60 million. kr in the current year's budget. This was partly done through reprioritisation and partly through new means and growth. Furthermore, I would like to say that for 2012 this is of course a budgetary matter, which I cannot therefore comment on in concrete terms, in addition to saying that both growth and re-priorities will of course be assessed in the next year's budget as well. All the money that goes through the Research Council does not come from the Ministry of Knowledge. It is also the case that most of the funds from the Ministry of Knowledge are tied up in long-term efforts. I therefore believe that in the short term it would not arouse further enthusiasm for me from one year to the next re-prioritised funds as today, for example. go to equipment, to centres for excellent research or to centres for research-driven innovation, for free project support. Therefore, price changes often require a combination of time to re-priorities and fresh funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e983	I do not call for any clear promises of budget increase in next year's budget. I have a lot of understanding that there's a debate we're going to get back to, but I think this hall is an excellent venue for having some visions. The Research Council is established to be a national competition venue for the best research, and I would say that it has been partially weakened by very thematic programme management. I am glad that the Council of State has a problem with many of the money being tied up in long projects, and I hope that I can also read the signals that there is something you consider to change. I am also pleased that the Council of State says that all the money does not come from the Ministry of Knowledge, and I hope that means that in the future we will have closer coordination of the research funds. I just want to end by asking whether the Council of State agrees with my vision that we should strengthen the Research Council as a national competitive area, with the internal priorities it must entail.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e992	The Council of State is well pleased with the way the Research Council exists and works. Nevertheless, we have an evaluation of the Research Council in progress, which will enable us to use it even better. But I would like to stress that there is actually much more of research funding that is not thematically directed than what concerns only free project support. Then I would like to remind you that we have excellent center research, and we have a number of other areas that also include so-called basic research, or free research. Everything is relative to the concepts used, but it is also true that not all funds in the Research Council go to programmes. About half of the funds in the Research Council go to programmes that in turn can also contain basic research. So here, I think all parties have to be minded that we have a slightly more thorough analysis and conceptual usage before we're very categorical, when we go in and say what's free, and what's not free research, and whether the free is better than the one that's tied to programs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1001	I can't believe I was talking about basic research at all. I talked about less governance and more focus on quality, which I believe was the intention of setting up the Research Council. Good research may be applied to research and development and may be fundamental research. It's a matter of course. I think the new thoughts of the Research Council about going through the conceptual usage of those things are sensible, and I believe so far the Council of State and I agree. But once again, as I said before, there are many projects that are rated in the two highest categories – categories 6 and 7 – without support, while in the case of some other programmes, to some extent compromises on quality. I see that this is a problem, and I hope the Council of State agrees with me that quality in research must be important, also in order to create enthusiasm among the voters for increased investment in research.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1008	I take a great deal of distance from compromising the quality of the research that has a superstructure or a program title. Here it's about having the best scientists, and when, for example, we do. rates of research for value creation in the country and for international, global challenges to climate, or what we are now focusing on research, it is the best research that gets funds, even if it has a headline and is within a programme. For me, it is relevant to involve the concept of basic research. I am fully aware that free project support can be something more, but let's talk about research-driven research – the one that is determined from below, and is not a consequence of, let's say, a research report with fields of activity and a research council that also has its programme areas. But my claim is that we should have as good research in the programme areas as we do in the so-called free project support for research, and that what we need to inspire and invite is, of course, to get even more and better research in both of these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1019	‘Many festivals are large, and government grants will help to improve their breadth. Relatively, there are a few who offer drug-free arenas for young people. Cross-country gospel and Midnorsk Gospel festival combines high-quality rest-free profile in all stages. These festivals have no earnings on alcohol sales, but still meet self-sufficiency requirements. What is the reason why these festivals are not prioritised through state grants, and will the Council of State contribute to correcting this imbalance?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1026	Sjärgårdsgospel and Midtnorsk Gospel Festival have both applied for grants from the Norwegian Cultural Fund. The funding scheme for music festivals is the scheme they have applied for. For 2011, the Schürgårdsgospel was awarded NOK 250000 from this scheme, while the Midnorsk Gospel Festival was refused its application. The administration of the Culture Council has stated that both decisions are based on an overall assessment based on professional and artistic judgement. The emphasis has also been on artistic content, programme and profile, as well as the other criteria for the festival support scheme. These criteria relate to the dissemination capacity, audience opening, the willingness to take responsibility for the developmental and innovative capacity of the respective genres, the role of the festival as a traditional carrier and their artistic vision, the soundness, efficiency, stability and professionalism of the festival, the importance of the festival and its anchoring in the region, and the geographical location, ring-fence and activity of festivals outside the festival period. Grants to the festival from the county and municipality are also an important criterion, as well as the festival's ability to self-appoint. Another example of a festival that has received festival support this year is Rock Mot Rus in Andenes. They have received NOK 100 000. However, target rock in Årdal was refused their application. The Norwegian Cultural Council is required to disseminate the funds of the Fund on the basis of professional and artistic judgement in accordance with the objectives of the Fund. No complaint can be made to the Ministry about the Council's professional artistic discretion, only about procedural errors. The Ministry also does not instruct the Council of Culture in individual matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1037	I thank you for your answer. I respect the fact that the Council of State does not instruct the Council of Culture in individual matters, but we have seen more examples from this government of politically lifting up genres or segments that have not received the attention you deserve. For example, the Minister of Culture, at the latest in the autumn, praised the country singer by saying that they had not received enough attention, that they now had to be politically promoted and that they deserved more attention. It's sometimes a political task. The signals from the Cultural Council for these festivals are that you operate with a bit of rigour, which makes some good offers actually fall between several chairs. Then the question to the Minister of Culture: Isn't it time to ask if not the gospel singer and restless festivals, which reach wider and different audiences, now deserve more in the counting of cultural resources than what has been so far received?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1046	What I've taken the initiative for is a focal point festival within the country, because it's a species of music that is not represented among node festivals. Nor is it right, as the representative says, that non-drug festivals do not receive funding from the Culture Council. This applies, inter alia, to: GranittRock, which has been allocated NOK 100000, it concerns Rock Mot Rus on the Andes and it also applies to the Gospel of the Archipelago. So there are many of these festivals that are restless, and that address a young audience, who get money, but it's not relevant to establish a node festival for the type of festivals that the representative has to attend.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1053	No, I have respect for the fact that creating node festivals is not relevant. The country is an example of the political not leaving everything up to a cultural council in the exercise of professional and artistic discretion in terms of singers and who deserve support, but the giving of some clear leads also between singers, and that not everything is a professional judgement. Then my question is: Is the gospel singer such a singer, since you obviously don't get any support that is related to the activity of these festivals? Another question, which is a very important question, is whether one should not take into account that a drug-free event actually reaches other target groups, families, e.g., young people and young people, in a way different from that of the other events. In addition, these arrangements do not have income from alcohol sales. Thus, they have a disability that should be an additional reason for getting support and reaching wider audiences with cultural resources than is otherwise possible. Is not the important consideration also for cultural policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1060	The representative mixes two things. One is a hub festival. These are the only festivals that are supported by the state budget. There are some festivals that have it, including: The folk music festival in Förde, the Øyafestival within pop and rock, and then we get to a node festival within the country. Only these are currently on the budget of the Ministry of Culture. The rest of the festivals are supported by the Council of Culture. Thus, many non-drug festivals are supported by the Culture Council, and others have also received it after contacting the Culture Council in order to know how to meet the criteria set by the Culture Council for public support. There are many great festivals in Norway. It is possible for several of them to receive public support through the festival support scheme, so I encourage the representative to contact this festival, ask them to attend a meeting with the Cultural Council to clarify how they can meet the criteria set by the Council of Culture for festival support. There are many restless festivals that receive support.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1090	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1097	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Labour the following questions: ‘1. Discrimination against pensioners in the State pension fund was introduced in May 2000, depending on the date of retirement. Pensioners with exactly the same position, pay levels and length of service received a very different pension based on whether they were retired before or after 1 May 2000. The highest basis on 30 April was 8 G plus 1/3 of the income between 8 and 12 G. Those who became a pensioner on or after 1 May could get a base of 12 G. The pension may vary by approx. 130000 kroner after today's G. Does the Council of State consider this to be fair non-discrimination?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1106	Representative Robert Eriksson has raised a question related to the calculation basis for old-age, disability and survivors' pensions in the State pension fund. The question relates to a change in the law on the State pension fund from 1 May 2000. Those who were retired before 1 May 2000 received a pension calculated on the basis of all labour income up to 8 times the basic amount of social security and 1/3 of the labour income between 8 and 12 G. The reduction in the pension base between 8 and 12 G is called the break point rule. With today’s basic amount, the break point rule applied to labour income between 605000 and 907000 kroner. In cancelling the break point, those who were retired after 1 May 2000 received the pension calculated by all labour income up to 12 G. The background to the amendment of the law was the main settlement of tariffs in the state in spring 2000. The aim was to ensure that the State as an employer could offer the necessary conditions for recruiting and maintaining skilled labour. In dealing with the issue in Stortinget, the scope of the amendment was a central issue, and the Stortinget decided that the suspension would not affect those who were already retired. The case has been tried by law. A group of pensioners who resigned before 1 May 2000 with a pension base between 8 and 12 G lost the case unanimously in the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court concluded that the legislator’s opinion was that the amendment would only apply to those who were retired after 1 May 2000. Taking into account the purpose of the amendment of the law – to recruit and maintain skilled labour in the country – I do not think it unreasonable to limit the change in the law to new cases after the law enters into force. In addition, I believe that those who were already retired at that time had no expectation of an increase in the pension in addition to the ordinary regulation. Nor is it unusual for changes in the legislation in the field of pensions to be limited to new cases. I can therefore not see that the amendment of the law does not discriminate unfairly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1119	I am well acquainted with the Supreme Court's judgment, to which the Council pointed. The Supreme Court has only established that the right law has been applied, and one has not gone into the question of justice, naturally enough, from the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court points out in the judgment that there will be something that it is up to the legislator to do. One can assume that a person who was retired on 29 April 2000 versus a person who was retired on 2 May 2000, i.e. three days apart. They have had the same position, the same salary and have done the same thing. They could be at risk of getting 130,000 kroner of difference in pension. Then the questions become to the Council of State: why is it fair? In what way is it a good non-discrimination? I want a clear response from the Council of State to that, because I do not understand that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1126	So, as the representative Robert Eriksson says, the Supreme Court has tried the legality of this. The feasibility of this is reflected in Storting’s treatment, where this issue was also a central issue. I understand the representative so that he wants to know if I think this is reasonable. I just want to show you my answer. There are many examples of legislative changes that are of such a nature that an effective time is set. Then it's a time of intersection – before or after – that determines whether you fall outside or not. We have a lot of examples of that. And then we have rules to ensure that there are no illegal repercussions. Here, I think it is quite clear that the expectations were not there. They had no reason to expect this. They have not been taken from anything. There are very special considerations that suggest that the rule applies, i.e., to recruit and maintain labour. It's not for reasons of raising pensions in general. So I just repeat my answer: I don't find this unreasonable.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1135	You can always discuss whether there are expectations or not, but when people go to court, you have a expectation. I dare doubt that there are people who are following a case all the way up to the Supreme Court without having expectations. At least let it be obvious from my side. Then I am also familiar with the salary settlement in 2000, when the Minister of Labour, Jørgen Kosmo, sent a letter to Stortinget and asked for an urgent procedure on the matter without being able to investigate the consequences, because one was afraid that the entire wage settlement would be put at risk. I think it's irresponsible treatment in many ways when you can't even make impact assessments that are necessary to see if you have unintended effects. This is not the first time this is happening to the Workers' Party in government. Last summer we reviewed a number of pension matters with short deadlines. Is it so to understand that it is conscious of the Labour Party and the Labour Party in the Government to present short-term pension cases so that there is no possibility on the part of the Stortinge to reveal the consequences of the decisions taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1142	With respect to reporting, I feel that a lot of things are being discussed at the same time. What I'm dealing with is the question of whether it's sometimes unreasonable not to allow rules to work for people in relation to a time of intersection. I've answered that. I don't see that as unreasonable. How the procedure was when this rule was followed, I do not go into any further detail. The size dealt with it, and the Storting found that it was not unreasonable and wanted this point of intersection. I repeat: this is a very common way of running legislation. In the case of expectations, expectations come when a rule is given. What is essential when assessing, among other things: the question of whether or not to apply to groups in a timely manner is, of course, whether or not they have had a real expectation before a decision is taken, expectations that they would be covered by such a rule. It's a completely different question than that after a rule is given, you think of course you should fall under it. So to the last: No, there is no deliberate policy on the part of the Workers' Party to provide pensions so late that the Storting cannot discuss them – nor has it been done that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1155	I will ask the Minister for Labour the following questions: ‘The Social Security Act provides entitlement to care allowance in the event of a serious illness of a child when the need for the presence of adults has been demonstrated. In the media in Sørlanden we have followed a family's desperate struggle for this court while a very ill daughter demands their full attention and presence. Refusal of aid presents an economic challenge in a difficult situation. The rejection seems to be clearly incorrect in relation to the intention, and Nav is reviewing a number of professional recommendations. Does the State Council support such proceedings, or will she look into the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1164	Initially, I would like to stress that I have a great understanding of the difficult situation of parents with very ill children. The proceedings in these cases have been added to the Labour and Welfare Act, with the opportunity to appeal the decision and ultimately appeal to the Social Security Court. I would just like to briefly inform you about the care scheme in the public sector. Nursing benefits may be provided to working parents when the child is admitted to a health institution. Furthermore, care can be given to working parents who are at home because the child suffers from a very serious but not permanent illness. When the disease is permanent, care is not given unless it is the initial phase of the disease or temporary unstable periods. Therefore, care allowance shall be a temporary compensation for lost labour income when parents are at home for a limited period of time in order to care for a sick child. When the condition is long-term, care needs can be met through adapted municipal services, so that parents can take part in the professional life. If parents want to provide care for the children, they may be entitled to care allowance from the municipality and assistance from the public interest. Good interaction between public and private care is important. I am aware that the care pay system has been criticised, inter alia. to be unpredictable. There is a background for the appointment of a public sample to assess benefits for relatives providing care that replaces municipal services. The committee shall deliver its nomination by 15 October of this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1175	I thank you for the answer and understand to the extent that the Council of State has to answer on a general basis, and I do not ask for the individual case to be dealt with, but I have to be allowed to point out examples from this case that concern me. The child has a very serious underlying disease that can rapidly develop into life-threatening metabolic crises. The patient needs continuous supervision, observation, care and stimulation, writes the superior at Sørlande Hospital. It is a very serious progressive disease, writes the sociology in the same hospital. Nav refuses on a concrete wrong basis, because they say that there is no direct connection with institution placement. The child has gone in and out of the hospital for the last two and a half years, with two, three and up to ten weeks' stay. There is a direct defect that is the reason for the rejection. How can a medical examination be carried out in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1182	I am pleased that the representative himself says that for me to go into fact on this matter, is not possible. What I can say is that the system is based on the parents, when they apply for care, obtaining medical evaluations. But it's Nav who's going to make the final assessment of whether you have a right to the public interest, and thus triggers demands for a public funding scheme. Nav has to make that assessment on an independent basis. They will focus on what emerges from the medical statements attached by the applicant, but where there is doubt, Nav will obtain its own medical assessments. That's the system all the way in public security. That's how the system has to be if you're to secure objective, independent assessments that will underpin the payments of public security.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1187	I hear what the council says, but I can further clarify it. The rejection is inter alia: justified by the fact that it is not a serious and unstable condition. We tilt between § 9-10 and § 9-11 of the People's Security Act. This is the certificate from the hospital. There are also certificates of everything that is being asked for. It is also shown in the Nav rejection that these are the exceptions that can be made. There are parents with a child of three years of age, with a disease that gives an average life span of three years, which is in this situation. The system shall be examined by a sample. Should there not be room for any other handling of such cases pending this investigation? These are people in a very special situation, and it doesn't create precedent. I again appeal to the Council of State to intervene and see if someone is not able to do anything in this matter during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1194	First, I stress what I said in the introduction, that if you think that Nav has made a mistake, you have systems both to complain and to bring the matter before the Social Security Court. This is a procedure that would not take very long, because I understand that the time aspect is important here. The second is that we have put down a sample to look at, among other things. public care pay, but I can't now go into a scheme that includes a clearly defined area, and in a case that clearly falls outside this area, at least according to Nav, and say that pending what is going to happen in a public sample, we're going to let this scheme work for them. First of all, it would be to let a law apply to a case for which it is very clearly not applicable – you get to bring the matter in if you disagree with it – and second, I cannot foreshadow the outcome of a public sample we have just put down to look at the whole of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1215	This question has been drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1229	This question has been raised. Question 14 has been answered earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-03-16.ana.ud1695e1244	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
