ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e26	The representatives of Laila Davøy, Gina Knutson Barstad, Harald T. Nesvik, Nikolai Astrup, Per Sandberg, Steinar Gullvåg, Svein Roald Hansen and Irene Johansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Anita Orlund and Siv Hov Egg For the Rogaland County: Terje Halleland
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e72	The representative, Bente Thorsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e75	On behalf of the representatives Tord Lien, Mette Hanekamhaug, Anders Anundsen and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to lift the obligation to live with the priests.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e80	The representative Peter N. Myhre will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e83	On behalf of Morten Høglund, Karin S. Woldseth, Jan Arild Ellingen, Siv Jensen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on the demand for independent evaluations of the assistance.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e88	The representative Per Arne Olsen wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e91	In order to contribute to the fulfilment of the Prime Minister's cancer guarantee, on behalf of Kari Kønaas Kjos, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and myself, I would like to propose a real treatment guarantee for cancer patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e97	The representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik wishes to make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e100	On behalf of the representatives Per Roar Bredvold, Torgeir Treldal, Åge Starheim and myself, I want to promote a proposal for a representative to change the residence requirement in the Fisheries Prohibition Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e105	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e117	On Monday, the Stortinge received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the Councils of State Kristin Halvorsen, Rigmor Aasrud and Audun Lysbakken will meet for oral Question Time. The announced government councils are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. Then we'll be ready for the first main question, from the representative of Per Sandberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e124	I would like to ask the Minister of Renewal and Administration a question. This week it was revealed in the Newspaper that in 2004 the Police Directorate made a risk analysis on anti-terrorism. Many questions remain to be clarified — what has been implemented and what has not been implemented by these 197 proposals regarding anti-terrorism measures. My first question to the Minister is: Can the Minister confirm or cancel whether the report, or part of the report, has been communicated to the Stortinget in any way? And so: It is clear from the Newspaper that, so to speak, all “actions were completed before July 22nd of this year”. We all understand that the Minister cannot reveal what measures are being discussed in detail in combating terrorism. However, it is interesting for Stortinget to know whether all the measures have been implemented and whether one or more measures remain, in addition to the closure of Grubbegata. It is also important to have transparency as to whether the measures which may not have been implemented have been hindered by the economy or by any other structural measures. Therefore, my question to the Minister is: Can you now clarify much more to avoid further speculation beyond what is stated in the Newspaper this week? I have registered that the Minister has promised to come and brief the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee at Stortinget. It is very good, but I think it is important that we also clarify at an early stage whether action remains – not what it consists of, but what may have to be done to implement any remaining action.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e137	Yes, it is correct that the matter was mentioned in the newspaper this week, but this is a matter that has been mentioned several times since 22 July. As I have said when it came to what was associated with the government quarter, it was the closure of the Grubbegata that remained. Then there are some other smaller works that remain, which are linked to different relationships that I would like to come and brief the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee on if I am invited to do so. A number of actions — 197 actions — were proposed in 2004, which my department is responsible for following up. Some of the most well-known measures include: the bombing of all the government quarter windows and the closure of the high-block review for general traffic. You need to use a safety card to get through the high-block – before it was damaged. These are the most well-known measures. Then again, there is something related to the goods receipt on the back of the R5, where there are now security measures to run in. It is the most central measures that were still linked to the government quarter. Then, as you know, the last barrier to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was not completed on July 22. It was planned to be completed during the harvest, and it has now been completed and put into service.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e144	I thank you for your answer. I see that there's at least a little bit of movement here. But my main question may have been more economic: can the Council of State possibly confirm or rule out whether the remainder is an economy, or is there any other thing that needs to be done in terms of laws, regulations, regulations or, where appropriate, structure, in order to implement it as quickly as possible? I would also like to ask the Council of State whether the Directorate of Social Security and Preparedness has been involved and involved in making such a risk analysis in order to get the broadest possible picture of what is necessary in order to increase preparedness and security.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e153	The report that was made in 2004 was the police directorate responsible for it. In terms of current risks and assessments related to the government quarter, the PST provides us with continuous advice on emergency measures to be implemented. In the follow-up, we use a wide range of institutions to provide advice on how to follow up the security of the government quarter – DSB is one of them, Defence Building is another, and other security authorities are also used in the ongoing follow-up to security regarding the concrete physical actions undertaken in the government quarter. With regard to the economy, the necessary funds have been made available through the annual budgets covered by the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e158	Three follow-up questions have been asked, and this will be the case – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e161	I have a certain understanding that the Council of State is reluctant to tell me what measures have not been implemented. Then you'd be able to give very simple information to people who shouldn't know how to attack parts of this area. However, 197 are very many proposals, and when we are now in the situation that the Council of State says that most of the measures have been implemented, it is a question of what is the reason why we cannot tell you about the measures that have actually been implemented. After July 22nd, we were told that we would meet with more transparency and more democracy, and the security measures of the 197 that have been implemented, there can be no problem to release. Will the Council of State contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e169	Some of the security measures implemented based on the report we received in 2004 are known to the public. This applies, inter alia, to: the closure of Grubbegata with several barriers, in the case of bomb films, in the case of the barrier steps set up in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but I ask for understanding that it would be unwise for me here to expose all the security measures established in the Government Quarter. But I'd like to come to the extended Foreign Affairs Committee. I make myself available to answer in depth the questions of the enlarged Foreign Affairs Committee, which are used to dealing with those kinds of issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e174	André Oktay Dahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e177	We can't have an open seminar on security. Everyone understands that. We must be serious about how we treat it. I have a question for the Council of State. A number of messages have been made to the undersigned that different departments have different security structures, different security managers with different competencies, different backgrounds and different approaches to security. Sometimes many cooks can create good cooklands, sometimes they can get a lot of waste. What has the Council of State done to ensure that there is a more consistent security structure among the departments, so that there is no risk of an unfortunate and lack of coordination between the departments in terms of a comprehensive understanding of the threat picture and what to do if something happens first?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e185	Security officers are established in each department and the security procedures established must be followed and followed up by each department. It is also the case that the individual departments may have a slightly different need for security, and it is the individual department in the line responsible for following up, based on the advice given by the authorities providing that kind of advice. So the security isn't equal in all the departments. Assessments are made in relation to which departments, which state councils and what the specific security threat is. However, a security officer system is in place in each department, and it is followed up by the projects and organisations linked to our security work. Then I think that in the future there will be a need for us to structure that work even more clearly in order for us to be absolutely sure that in the individual departments there is a good and consistent approach to some of the most general security measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e190	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e193	One of the responsibilities of the Council of State is to ensure construction, and in the future debate, it is also important to understand that the way in which a government deficit is re-established is safe, but also modern and forward-looking. The high block is a building that is less functional, not as modern and perhaps not as forward-looking as it should be. In addition, it stands in an area where there is good space, and one could have taken advantage of the area much better. So one of the proposals that the Council of State has to consider is precisely whether ripping the high-block would be appropriate. So my question to the Council of State is quite simple: does the Council promise me that at least she will consider that tearing the blocks is one of the alternatives?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e200	The answer to that is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e205	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e208	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. For almost three years, it has been said that LO, NHO and the government are to enter into a binding social contract to ensure that more students are offered an apprenticeship. In 2008, the Karlsen Committee’s inquiry came Professional Training for the future. In 2009, the government presented the Education Line. In the winter of 2010, Stortinget concluded. The end of 2011 is near, and the government has still not put in place a system to ensure training up to a letter for students who choose a professional course. It is urgent when approx. 50 pst. by students who choose a professional course and do not receive an apprenticeship, they fall from the training. Professional students without an apprenticeship are often offered today a demanding theoretical year that can provide study competence. This is a drop-off trap. When society needs skilled workers, it is a blind lead to the exclusion of professionals from study specialisation when the rivers do not themselves want it. In a response to the Stortinget in June 2010, the Minister of Knowledge wrote: ‘I propose to invite all the main associations of the world of work to cooperation without delay.’ She continues: ‘There will be work to complete a contract by 15 October at the latest.’ [[...]] Soon a year and a half later, the government has not yet come to terms with the much-discussed social contract. I now hear that it is called to a so-called ‘resumption meeting’, and that the work should be restarted on 29 November. The situation is totally unsustainable for all the students involved. How will the Minister of Knowledge explain to Stortinget that the government has given such a low priority to the important work on the social contract, when the consequence is that more and more new students remain unskilled?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e231	Raising the status of a professional profession and enabling more students to complete a professional course is one of the most important areas of activity on which I am now under full pressure. Our entire project New GIV is about this. A comprehensive review of the vocational backgrounds for vocational training is also part of this, and we also have full pressure on efforts for more apprenticeships, which is the main focus of a new social contract. It is true that the work on a social contract has taken longer than I hoped. These include: because the employers’ organisations thought that we did not have so much to talk about before the issue of the statutory right to apprenticeship was resolved. Employers' organisations feared that the government would oblige individual companies to accept apprentices, even if they were not interested in taking that responsibility. I don't think it's a good situation for an apprentice to come to a company that doesn't want them. So I have never thought that our work to ensure that as many professionals as possible get an apprenticeship would be that individual companies are required to take in an apprentice they don't want. But now I am in contact with the parties, and I expect the tip of that question to be cleared off the road. Fortunately, the NHO has done a good job of getting more apprentices, and the state has made a very concrete plan to get more apprentices. 1 September this year we had managed to get an increase of 12 pst. in the case of apprenticeships, so even though the parties have protested on one of the proposals that the government had in mind, which were part of our government platform, they have actually done one job each in their own field. That is why I very much hope that we will now arrive at an offensive and good social contract that will ensure the implementation of the profession.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e240	The Council of State now confirms that she has actually wasted a lot of valuable time investigating the law of the place of learning – as the Council of State itself says she has never really believed in – and it is very serious for all the students who suffer year after year that you have not received the necessary offensive to provide enough learning places. This is actually a history of suffering when we think about how long it's taken to get this social contract out. When the Council of State also stresses that this is one of the most important initiatives for the government, it is even more incomprehensible that so much time has been wasted on the road. It might always be that even if you get this community contract and you get more places to learn, there'll be some students who probably don't get the place anyway. Will the Council of State now take the initiative to introduce an alternative scheme, as proposed by the Right, so that students who do not receive apprenticeship will be offered a two-year run in school instead of today's study specialisation services, which most receive?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e249	I expect that the representative Aspaker would not find that some organisations outside the political system were to dictate what a government was going to do or propose. At least I can't find out, and we've got an assessment. I agree with the assessment that has come from Professor Jakhelln. It has never been my intention that individual companies should be charged against their will to accept apprentices, simply because there is a bad learning situation. Then there's a completely different attention and pressure in terms of career choices, now that it's ever been before, and that's because we need a lot more with a letter in the future. When we talk about the knowledge society, there are no more academic professions that we need. In 2030, we might need 65,000 more people who have received a letter. The Norwegian business life collapses at the moment when Swedes and Poles travel home and we are unable to get more with good trades. So I'm looking at all the alternatives in this context. The learning that takes place in an enterprise cannot fully replace a school system, but we still have to see if we can find better arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e258	Four follow-up questions are raised – first Svein Harberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e261	As Mr Aspaker has just pointed out, this is a long-term debate. In June 2010, the Council of State announced that it would: 80 pst. of the apprenticeship contracts were in the private sector and 20 pst. in the public sector. This is a huge imbalance. The councils promised to grab hold of it and sweep at their own door. The right has repeatedly called for measures for apprentices in State activities. Now I noticed that the council said they had increased by 12 pst. from the approx. 20 pst. It's still a big imbalance. I wonder how the Council of State has followed up this with its government colleagues in terms of measurement figures. How does she see the achievement of the goal to be achieved with the first? It is really important for the State to set a good example in social contracts too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e271	I think there's a misunderstanding about numbers here. The total number of apprenticeship places from September last year to 1 September this year has increased by 12 pst. Among the municipalities, the increase has been 20 pst. I'm very happy about that, because that means that the municipalities see a lot more clearly than before that, for example. to provide good care for the elderly depends on the inclusion of apprentices in health care and care — and they do so to a greater extent. So the government college has committed itself to increasing the number of apprenticeship places by 10 pst. It's not the large amount, but I fully agree with Harberg that we have a commitment. Fortunately, here we're doing a lot of work to get more apprenticeship places. Today we ask young people to take a professional course without we can guarantee that they have an apprenticeship and can carry out their education course as planned. We have to put an end to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e278	Bente Thorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e281	It is important to have plenty of apprenticeships for students in vocational training, but it is also important that pupils who come out as apprentices have a good knowledge of and a good competence in the subjects in which they are trained. We receive regular feedback that the apprentices have far less professional competence than they had before Reform 94 was introduced. The National Association of Construction now reports that several companies refuse to take in apprentices. One of the reasons is that the apprentices simply don't have education, knowledge that's good enough, in the subject in which they're going to practice and work. Vocational training has been spread across too many disciplines, weakened by the professional field of each subject. The question is whether the Minister will provide vocational training to each subject from the first year of secondary school, so that the business community will have apprentices who possess the relevant skills required by each subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e288	Yes, I have asked the Education Directorate to look at how it is possible to obtain a specialisation earlier in the field of professional science, not just in the construction sector, but generally in the construction sector. I expect this to be one of the important summaries of the Knowledge promise, because there was too little focus on the professional and higher education at all when the Knowledge promise was discussed. So there's a process going on. Then there's another thing that's very important in implementing professional and secondary education. It's that the students have better knowledge with them when they start high school. Too many people leave high school with too much knowledge. If they read, write and think that they are too poor, they will have problems in completing secondary education. That's why New GIV, this transition project that 2,300 students at the 10th grade were through in the last school year, and we're now stepping up so that 4,000 students will be offered this school year. We have to approach this problem from multiple sides.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e295	Line Henriette Hemdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e298	The apprenticeship system is an important support element in today's vocational training. The figures for the construction industry show a decrease of over 500 apprenticeship places for 2009-2010. It's drastic. The fact that we then have an increase from 2010 to 2011, to which the Council of State refers, should only be lacking when the Council of State has full pressure on this. So we know that an apprentice who is trained in a company, much more often than one who has to be an apprentice in school. When we know this and that we have too few apprenticeship places, we have to take some necessary steps. Two necessary steps may be to increase the apprenticeship allowance and reduce the workload for apprentices. Are these two schemes that the Council of State can assess in the short term in order to increase the number of apprenticeship places?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e305	That's absolutely something we can assess, but it's a purely budgetary question, and it costs a lot of money. Today, the grant to an apprenticeship place is NOK 106 000. In addition, we have continued the additional grant that we made in the context of the financial crisis, and we have a special grant for apprentices with some special challenges. So we actually have a pretty good, pretty rusty system of subsidies. What I have prioritised in budgetary terms is that those who enter the profession and become apprentices have a better starting point. Because it is quite right that working life has said that they often receive apprentices who have too little knowledge. I've considered it the most important task to prioritise. Then there is a very great value for young skilled workers to be apprentices and to be trained at a workplace, to be with adult professionals, both in terms of working life and how to learn a subject. My main intention is to get the number of apprenticeship places up, so that as much as possible can be done in an apprenticeship.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e314	Borghild Tende – to the last follow-up question to this main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e317	For the Left, it is okay that the Minister of Knowledge today parkes the proposal for a statutory right to apprentice places. But then it's like we're missing concrete steps in the state budget to get more apprenticeships. The left, as the previous representative was also concerned, will propose two very specific measures in its alternative budget. One measure is to exempt apprentices from the employer’s contribution, and the other is to increase the apprenticeship allowance. What does the Council of State think about this? Does the Minister of Education think that we can get more or less apprenticeship places based on the two concrete measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e322	Removing the employer’s fee for apprentices is not a good idea. That's because, for example, we're going to have to do this. does not have an employer’s fee in the state of Finnmark – one of the countries that strives the most to get students to undertake secondary education. Increasing the apprenticeship allowance is, of course, something you would always want to do. But I think our priority is right, to make sure that high school students are better equipped for reading, writing and billing, because that is the key to implementing high school, and that we get to a completely different professional correction in the professions. That is why, through the New GIV, we now have a major focus on continuing education and training of teachers, more vocational correction of the professions and the common vocational training subjects. I believe that it is like, for example, Now the NHO has done, getting more apprentices, is a very important effort. They have succeeded in getting to it. I believe that the very focus we now have through the New GIV will lead to a better success in the implementation of the profession. Then we'll get back to the money another time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e329	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e333	The question goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. First, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Council of State as a writer. From the point of view of the Christian People's Party, we think it's great that we have a government council that writes a book to lift the importance of fatherhood, parental responsibility and family life. But when we read the book and hear the Council talk about these issues, I still wonder if we live in the same reality. All the Councils have one thing in common: they seem to be suitable only for a particular type of family, namely the family where parents want a total of 47 weeks of maternity leave, or alternatively 57 with 80 pst. wages and salaries, where parents seek full-time employment in kindergarten for five years — and, according to SV, compulsory kindergarten for the last year — where parents will not use the cash support and where mother is waiting to become pregnant until she has earned the right to maternity allowance and father is entitled to a parental allowance. The joys of life are then structured in such a way that births are well planned, and all children are born before 1 September, so that they are given the right to babysitting. The mothers who can nurse, however, will not nurse more than that father can take long leave, so that they can return to work quickly. The parents live together, they get healthy kids, both can go straight to work after leave, and both parents have a lot of energy and profits after the first year and have the strength to combine 37.5 hours of work with kids and family. The question to the Council of State is: Is the red-green family policy just for the perfect family?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e342	I would like to take this opportunity to thank the representative for bringing my new book into the debate – it is for sale in the bookstore at Egertorget. There's a lot of debate about family policy, and that's good. One of the prerequisites for Norway to be a more prosperous country, where we take care of our welfare state in the future, is that we become a more equal society. This means that we need good opportunities for families to combine having children with what is becoming more and more common in Norway, fortunately, that both women and men participate in the same line of work. It is a delusion that today's family policy in Norway does not give freedom of choice. We have a degree of freedom and flexibility in our welfare systems that women, men, children and toddlers hardly have anywhere else in the world. We have a parental leave scheme that allows families to spend time, about a year – in many cases more – at home with their children. Most of the time is for free distribution between parents. We have the opportunity to start the children in the nursery early, and we even have a cash payment that has been increased during the period that individual families have to wait in place. I feel that there is a great leap between the rhetoric that part of the opposition uses against the government's equality policy and the actual alternatives that are being promoted. As for the Christian People's Party's criticism of our new proposal on the third division of parental leave, I have recognized the Christian People's Party's alternative so that it should not be set by twelve weeks to father and twelve weeks to mother, but ten weeks to father and ten weeks to mother. If the two weeks are the difference between coercion and freedom, it surprises me. I guess I'd recommend that the rhetoric dampen something if the distance really isn't greater than that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e353	As far as the last point is concerned, the Christian People's Party is in favour of 68 weeks of flexible leave that can be taken out in ten years. There's quite a difference between our model and the government model in that way. The Council of State answers are quite illustrative for my first point, for the Council of State answers on the basis of the welfare state, his book and the equality plan he presented yesterday are permeated by one thought, namely that freedom of choice is secondary to the need for the least possible to enter the labour market, in any case, for the best possible – that is what is best, and that is what one from a department in Akersgata wants to direct Norwegian families in the direction of anyway. Yesterday's headline in the press release on the gender equality plan is: ‘Agriculture shall ensure the welfare of the future’. Then the question becomes: has SV lost equality as an ideological struggle for equality between people? Has gender equality become a tool in the fiscal toolbox instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e366	Equality is a struggle for the freedom of the individual to have power over his own life, regardless of traditional gender roles. It's a struggle for children to have the same right to secure frames around their growth, no matter what kind of choice their parents take. It's also something that we as a society have an interest in, because it strengthens us as a community, and because it gives us an opportunity to combine high female employment with Europe's third highest birth rate. It's a positive and important part of the equality debate. I'm busy getting it out, because I think equality is underestimated in the Norwegian social debate – underestimated as a structural issue, and underestimated as one of the things that makes us a rich society. There is no contradiction between emphasising that equality increases freedom and that equality increases prosperity. The beauty of equality in Norway is that Norwegian women and men do not take the choice that many others in Europe must make: working or having children. In Norway, families can choose both.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e371	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e374	There is a significant difference between what is SV's rhetoric and what is the real life. If we look at what was state councillor Lysbakken's rhetoric when he removed the cash support for two-year-olds, the goal was according to the State council Lightbaken that several immigrant children should receive valuable language training in kindergarten. Then we go to the real life: there are 14,000 two-year-olds who lose cash support. And if we look at what's the real life in the government's budget, we're going to create 1,100 new kindergartens – so there's 14,000 two-year-olds missing cash support. So it's not necessarily like all of the good kindergartens, but according to Telemarks, the real need for kindergartens is when one removes the cash support, four times as high. Why is there no agreement between the SV and what they do?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e379	Removing the cash support for two-year-olds is correct, for several reasons. It is right because cash support has been a scheme that has contributed to semanticizing traditional gender roles, it has helped keep many of the children who need to be in kindergarten the most, out of kindergarten, and in addition, our government believes that there is no reason for the state to pay for people to choose not to use public welfare schemes. Of course, everyone has a right not to do that, to be at home and not work, but it's not necessarily a government task to pay for it. We've provided calculations based on the information we've received from the SSB related to the need for kindergartens next year. Of course, that can change. We do not yet know how the reduction in cash support will turn out, either next year or in the long term. Therefore, that case has also been notified as a cost-measurement matter in the consultation system, and the government, together with KS, will assess the estimate of the need for new kindergartens.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e386	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e389	The Progress Party is concerned about families today when we look at the developments that have taken place in recent years with this government, which is increasingly to govern the everyday life of families and give them less and less freedom of choice. State Council Lighthouse stands here and talks about freedom of choice, but it is only if they choose what the Council of State – SV – and this government chooses. In fact, he does not get support from his own government traps either – the centre party slaughters one proposal after the other Lighthouse comes along, and wonders what's next. Then I want to give a little hint to the Christian People's Party, who must now see that they are going to implement a proper family policy, they must go to the Advance Party. Families are different today. They need flexibility, they need freedom of choice, they need a better economy, so that their everyday lives rise. But the Lightbaking talks about equality, and my question to the Lightbaking is: Is equality more important than the freedom of choice of families?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e398	Equality gives families freedom of choice because it is possible for men and women to choose, regardless of traditional gender roles. It gives increased freedom, the type of freedom the Advance Party has never been occupied with. The family policy of the Advance Party, with which they will tempt the Christian People's Party, for example, involves: removing the parental quota, removing the right of fathers to be at home with children. We know what the result of that is going to be. When the government action plan was presented yesterday, it was commented by the social partners, by the KS, by LO, by the NHO. I'll ask the representative Horne to listen to the NHO, as she has the tradition of listening to more than me. They say that it will have serious consequences for business if the Progress Party and the Right policy to eliminate the feather quota is implemented. So they fully agree with the government and want both a third of the leave and a long father's allowance to ensure that business gets the opportunity to recruit from the entire population and both sexes in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e403	Linda C. Hofstad Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e407	With the world's most generous parental leave scheme, it is also gratifying to see today that Norwegian mothers have the best in the world. That's why it's a shame what the government is now doing, it's a shame that the government is increasingly depriving families of freedom of choice. Because the government's family policy is based on people who live 8 to 16 lives. However, there are actually some fathers in Norway who are unable to live up to the Papal ideal of the Light Hill, for example. the farmer, the North Sea worker or the carpenter. For them, the SV model doesn't fit in, they can't adapt to the model designed for the Grünerløkka cardboard. With SV's Grünerløkka model, it's actually 65 pst. of all children who lose time with their parents. Is it not a problem for the Council of State that the government is pursuing a policy that is not adapted to the majority of Norwegian families?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e412	Saved Barna has selected Norway as the world's best country for mother and child. We can enjoy that. But it's clear that those who repeatedly call Norwegian family policies socialistic coercion, should perhaps also consider whether there is an appropriate description of a policy that has made this country the world's best for mother and child. I'm reacting to the right over and over again talking like our leave system is just adapted to some parts of the population. What we see is that the withdrawal of leave among fathers is increasing in all parts of the population. Now, the working class's team has never been the focal point of the Right Party, but there's reason to remember that not only men have professions that don't always fit to be long away. There are also women who are farmers and carpenters; there are also women who have work situations that can be poorly adapted. That's why the Right needs to be a little careful to do this only to a question of men when we need flexibility both ways.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e419	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e422	Yesterday, the Minister for Gender Equality presented a very comprehensive document on equality. Most measures are aimed at modern, forward-looking, free women living in the world’s best country for women, Norway. The Council of State highlighted the need for quotaing, three-part parental leave and a number of other measures, which we free women do not actually want. In fact, we want our freedom, we'll be allowed to decide our everyday lives and how we're going to live our lives, ourselves. Although most women in Norway really feel like equal, free and living people in society, unfortunately, it is a small group that falls outside. It is therefore striking in the report that there is little involvement of minority women in the state councils. They are almost not mentioned in the entire equality document. In Norway, a group of women live in fear — fear of coercion, fear of circumcision. It is women who do not benefit from the eagerness of the Council of State to divide parental leave into three, or the desire of the Council of State to set up public father groups for men, who are able to socialize both themselves and their children on their own in a very good way. The response of the Council of State to the oppressed minority women who are forced into marriage, who are forced to wear the oppressive clothes against their will, who live in fear of the world’s best country to live in – the only answer that the Council of State has to them – is that we should continue a few measures that have proved to be ineffective. It just doesn't last. So my question to the Council of State is therefore today: When can the Storting expect the Council of State to intervene in the most important women's struggle and the most important gender equality struggle of our time – the struggle to free oppressed women who live in our free country? When has the Council of State planned to take concrete action to ensure that our fellow sisters living in oppressive cultures in Norway are aware that it is good to live in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e429	It is illustrative for the equality debate that the Progress Party, which has never lifted a finger to promote equality in Norwegian society, is horribly concerned with it as soon as it talks about immigration and integration. But enough about it, because the issue is important. It's true that in some immigrant environments, equality is a long way to go. There is lower professional participation among women, and we also see that there are a number of problems related to, for example: violence in child rearing and lower rights for some women. What the government is doing with these issues is mentioned in the Action Plan on several points. Among other things, we have a separate action plan on coerciveness and anti-sex mutilation that we are currently rolling, and we will continue with the measures that are working, and review those that may not work. We have good results both in the fight against coercion and in the fight against gender mutilation. In addition, a number of measures promoting gender equality in Norwegian society are also very important to promote equality among minorities. We know that the removal of cash support for two-year-olds, whom the Progress Party opposed, is important for more immigrant women to get to work, and more immigrant children can come to kindergarten. We know that a measure such as thirds can have a very important effect in these groups, to ensure that fathers who may not have the tradition of being at home are at home alone with their children for a period of time. In addition, several of the targeted measures taken by our government have been implemented in order, inter alia, to achieve this. More women with a minority background in work are measures that the Progress Party opposes. Take the New Chance program, which I am particularly concerned about and want to expand. So it's a programme that we're looking for women with a minority background who've been out of work for a long time, giving them a chance to get basic language training and basic professional practice. It makes many immigrant women come out of isolation and into society. But the Progress Party is against it. You don't actually do what you say you do.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e440	It's completely wrong. The Council of State may try to blame the Progress Party, but it is now despite all the Council of State that has the primary responsibility here. And it's remarkable that he presented a gender equality message yesterday, where the main focus is on setting up state triple groups, instead of focusing on what you're so very concerned about, which is about the women who really need to be equalised here in Norway. There has been a wave of assault violence in Oslo, and the signals from the perpetrators indicate that almost all of them come from non-Western countries. Several men in minority settings have said anonymously to the environment that Norwegian women must expect when dressed as they do. But does the Council of State think that the minority women who live in the environments in which these attitudes exist live a good and free life? Doesn't the Council of State realize that these women are victims of a oppressive culture, on which he should spend much more time in his report, when he is Minister of Gender Equality?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e447	As I said, this is widely mentioned in the Action Plan. In addition, the government has announced that it will deliver a big message to spring on integration policy, with particular attention being paid to women and gender equality. When women live in involuntary conditions, whether they have a minority background or a majority background, society has a responsibility to intervene and help in the women's liberation struggle. But I think the Progress Party and the Government have some strategic disagreements about how it does it. I have e.g. no one believes that by banning certain clothing, by sending the police to hunt these women, they will be more free. I think that instead will make them the centerpiece of a draw between the big community and conservative forces, which will make it possible for even more of these women who never get to go out on the street, never to go on a Norwegian course, and who we thus never get the opportunity to reach with the message that every woman in Norway is free to make their own choices, throw the clothes she won't go with, work if she wants to – decide on her own life.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e454	Three follow-up questions are raised – first, Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e457	After New Year's, I'm going to the paper show for the second time, and I can promise the council that I won't write a book, but I'll kiss my daughters and other grandchildren. I am confident that Norwegian fathers are able to be good caregivers for their children, without any «papahaage» funded by taxpayers. Then I hope it's okay for the Council of State that I also associate with some small children's mothers who are on maternity leave at the same time. Once again, many of Norway’s gender equality policies are about academics and the Oslo West – that kind of issue. But Norwegian girls are sent in thousands every year to go to school a country where Kristin Halvorsen is not the State Council for Education, to learn that women are half as much worth as men, and partly also to be coerced into their relatives. Does the Council of State think that these girls feel that they live in the world's most equal countries, and does the Council of State intend to put in place some measures to improve this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e464	I wish the representative good luck in cardboard – I am sure it will be brilliant for both father and child, and he will not go to father groups, if he does not want to, like all other Norwegian men. The party of progress is also the only party that, once these father groups have been treated in the Stortinge before, has actually opposed it, so I have great respect that they also now say they are against it, unlike the Right, for example. - enough about it. Gender equality policy is targeted at all women and all men in Norway. The party of progress cannot claim to be the party of equality among minority women when they have never been the party of equality for women in Norwegian society. Many of the measures aimed at increasing equality in the Norwegian community will also increase equality for minority women. But the Progress Party is against the feather quota, the Advance Party is against building down the cash support, the Advance Party is against New Chance. The party of progress does nothing to help these women, except to use them as rhetoric in the immigration debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e471	Linda C. Hofstad Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e475	I am pleased to see that the gender equality plan contains several concrete measures, including: for the reprocessing tests. The Government shall, inter alia: organise the Sami Human Conference. That's good. However, it is disappointing that no concrete action has been taken to address the main challenge of gender equality in Norway, namely minority women and to get the usual immigrant women into work. There's a good thing about New Chance, but it's especially perceived that there's only a focus on the disadvantaged immigrant women. There are many resource-intensive immigrant women out there who want to get to work, who want to make use of their skills, and who are not satisfied with getting to the bottom of the ranking because you are not getting the skills you have. What concrete measures does the Council of State have to take to get these women out of work and perhaps solve one of the greatest equality challenges we have? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e484	The action plan contains measures directly targeted at minority women, but not least a number of general measures that will be important for minority women. We must not fool ourselves into believing that equality policies for minorities are just about special measures for them. It is very often about whether we are able to create more equality in general in Norwegian society. The right is increasingly placed on the wrong line and stands for a policy that will not contribute to it and will therefore not help minority women either. It is necessary to combat several of the barriers that stand in the way of women with a migrant background entering the labour market. It's about qualification, it's about recognition of foreign education, and it's about opportunities to actually get on the job interview, where we know that many foreign-speaking names can be a hindrance. We're working on all of these barriers, both to strengthen the qualification, to get more foreign education approved and to get arrangements in, among other things. the municipalities where minority applicants are called for interview. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e493	Unfortunately, the President must remember that speaking time is completely equal between state councils and representatives and must be up to 1 minute. So there is no extra spring quota, for example, in this context! Øyvind Hope - for the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e498	On one point, I have to agree with the Council of State: equality increases freedom of choice. The greater paradox, then, is that the government in its, if we can call it, is eager for what you think is equality, combating freedom of choice in areas by region. It was right to remove the cash support to have kids in kindergarten, repeats the council. So he says it's not the government's job to finance this. And that's maybe where the cats come out of the bag; maybe that's what was the main point, when we see from the state budget that these kids aren't going to get kindergarten. That's what the government's policy is. In the case of immigrant women, it should not be assumed that the small proportion of kindergartens being built is actually for the worst integrated people who come to work and suddenly seek kindergarten. So the question is, is it the commitment that fails with the government when you don't do more for immigrant women? [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e507	It was good that the representative Håbrek too used the spring quota! The question is the same as I answered instead: If we had abolished the cash support for two-year-olds at a time when there was no entitlement to kindergarten, that problem could have arisen. Today, children have a right to kindergarten. The children's gardening areas required shall be built. As I said, we are also in dialogue with the KS on how the need becomes. But, of course, the government has to base itself on the forecasts that we had at the time we created the state budget. So it's exciting to see not least the long-term effect of what we're doing now. I think this will lead to far more children coming into kindergarten. It'll be a good development. Freedom of choice and equality are interrelated, I believe. That is why this government's policy has increased the freedom of choice for Norwegian families of young children, for women and men, to live their lives more independently of traditional gender roles, while the bourgeois option would restrict that freedom.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e518	Then we go to today's last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e521	My question goes to the Minister for Gender Equality, the Council of State with responsibility for Child Protection. Education and schooling are one of the key inputs to providing children and young people with the ballast and the basis needed to meet challenges later in life. Of the children who may be more dependent than others on having school as a fixed point in everyday life, namely children's protection, there are, unfortunately, too many who do not get the school they are entitled to. Many of these children experience difficulties later in life, not least because they have not gone to school. These children are the responsibility of the state. At the same time, the country is obliged to provide these young people with training. Nevertheless, the paediatric protection study shows that 24 pst. of these children do not go to school. Twenty-five pst. in this survey, they have never been particularly encouraged by those who work in institutions. The population now reports a violation of the Training Act in all counties. When it comes to having children at school, you may not have to put down any more samples or have more evaluations to find out what to do. It is quite simple, in my opinion, to ask for child protection to focus much more on the need to have children at school. Now what does the Council of State do to meet these kids' right to education?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e534	There is an important question, and there are serious figures revealed in the survey. That's why we've also taken care of it and we're working on it. We have to do that along multiple tracks. Firstly, we need to improve cooperation between child protection and school. We know that it's not always good enough, and that in the municipalities, as in many other places in our welfare state, too often children become throwballs between different parts of the public utility and the offer they're going to get. Therefore, closer cooperation between school and child protection is crucial. Nor is there any doubt that the figures show that we need to raise awareness in the institutions about how to achieve such cooperation, and how to ensure that more of the children and young people at the institutions come to school. I fully agree with the representative. In addition, let me add that once again there is an illustration of the need for early action in child protection, because there are probably also numbers that reflect that we are too often coming in late – that is, at a time when the young people may have been out of school for a long time, where the problems have become so serious that it is very difficult to get them back to school. This shows the need for a turnaround in child protection in order to reach the most vulnerable children in the past. That's one of what we hope to achieve with the resource-lifting government is in the process of child protection. In addition, as the representative knows, we are now engaged in work related to both the reorganization of child protection and new priorities. This means that before this period is over, we aim to present to the Stortinget a proposal for a new future division of responsibilities between the municipality and the state while reviewing the basic priorities of child protection. There we look at the biological principle, and we look at the distribution between institution and foster home. But this issue will, of course, also be relevant in this respect.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e547	I thank you for your answer. But I have to say that after six years with this government and four councillors responsible for child protection, there is a lot of talk and little action. It is the children who suffer from the government's paralysis in the field of child protection. It's evaluations, it's investigations, it's groups, and it's panel. But the kids need politicians who act now. I heard no concrete action from the Council of State. So I repeat my question: what will the Council of State actually do to make the 24 pst. by children under the responsibility of child protection who are not currently attending school, are given the opportunity and are being followed up and motivated for schooling? These kids need that opportunity as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e554	This government is acting in the field of child protection policy to the extent that we have not seen for a very long time in Norway. We're doing the biggest resource pledge in municipal child protection in 20 years. We have initiated a reform that will change the organisation of child protection, because we have seen that the reform carried out by the civil government in 2004 has not been successful. We have also launched a wide-ranging debate with a view to making changes to the fundamental principles of child protection. This means that child protection is now in the process of a major change. We have to implement the changes in a responsible way. We're not going to make the same mistakes that have been made before, and we're going to get good results for the kids. In my reply I had several concrete actions. But the representative knows just as well as I do that there is not one answer – one answer neither the representative of Hofstad Helleland nor I can give – that makes these children come to school. There is hard work, awareness raising, better cooperation and adaptation to individual children’s needs that can do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e561	There will be four follow-up questions – first Elisabeth Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e565	My follow-up question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. Children's protection is undoubtedly a group of children who deserve the full attention of society. These are children who do not live the safe, stable life that the majority of Norwegian children happily do. The more important it is then that child protection and school together reach the maximum extent to facilitate these kids to experience mastery and to be part of the social community that the school represents. It's a fact that many child-restraints have to move, and maybe several times during the time they go to school. It is therefore very important to ensure that child-restraint children have individual training plans that can make the exchange of school as simple as possible, for the child itself, but also for the teachers who will follow up the child. What will the Minister of Knowledge do to ensure that children with child protection receive individual training plans that enable them to participate in school, obtain the best possible learning outcomes and comply with their training right?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e574	Now I came to think of a boy I met not long ago, a child protection child who had now entered an advanced training offer. He said, finally, someone thinks I can learn something too. He had been patted on his back all through school because he had it so difficult, and therefore it was not so strange that he didn't learn anything. He said it was liberating that one finally saw that he had a potential, that someone made demands and had expectations that he would also reach them. I think that might be the starting point, because individual training plans for all child-restraints mean that you look at them as having learning difficulties just because they're child-restraints. That's the starting point I want to protest wildly and violently against. Another thing is that everyone really needs follow-up. The representative of Aspaker is quite right in saying that a lot of child-restraint children live a very changeable life and often move, and perhaps also often change schools. It imposes special requirements on the attention of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e579	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e582	My follow-up question goes to the Council of State Lighthouse. I am very pleased that the president is talking about equality in terms of speaking time, but I also expected that both councils had answered the question. They didn't. Nevertheless, I want to give honor to the Lighthouse, for he talks in his answer about how important it is with early help in terms of child protection. We know that a lot of these children are moved from a safe neighborhood, moved from relatives and friends and grandparents to other parts of the country, which makes them get a worse everyday life. We know that there are many grandparents, aunts and uncles who are ready to be foster families to allow the child to live in his/her safe neighborhood. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State has several times agreed with what the Stortinget has said, that close relatives and family are to be used much more as foster families. But we see that it's not being done. What will the Council of State do to make close family and relatives much more widely used as foster families?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e591	This is a question where the representative Horne and I fully agree: there are too many children the best option for foster home placement that they have an opportunity to be placed in a close family. Therefore, child protection is also required first to look for opportunities in the child’s family or close networks. It also means that a fairly large proportion of the children in foster homes are in that kind of home. As of December 31, last year, there were almost 2,000 children and young people. So that's going to be approximately. 23 pst. of all children and young people living in foster homes and there has been a slight increase in recent years. But I agree, I think the potential for that kind of placement can be greater, and it's worrying if child protection doesn't take full advantage of those possibilities. Therefore, in February of this year, the Ministry sent a letter to the county councillors and municipalities specifying that this possibility should be investigated.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e598	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e601	Yes, I'm going to give the Council the right that this is a demanding issue, and it also requires raising awareness in child protection to see the needs of individual children. But it is also obvious that there is a resource question of following up the children in institutions individually enough to give them the offers and get them into school, regardless of the problems they face. Now the Christian People's Party has fought throughout the period for a national escalation plan for full child protection. We wanted the same commitment to the full coverage of child protection that the government has provided for full child-care – even though it may now fail from the harvest. In what the Council of State refers to as its Children's Protection Lift, which we're still waiting for, it's the municipalities that are in focus. But it is the state that is responsible for these children in institutions, and does this not show that there is a need for an overall lifting of child protection, which includes not only the municipalities, but the whole chain of child protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e608	The government child-restraint lift has three parts. There is a resource gap in municipalities, there is a new organisation, and there is a new priority in the importance of reviewing the basic principles of child protection. What's going on now is the greatest upgrading of municipal child protection in 20 years. It's just necessary for us to be able to have a first line that reaches the kids early enough, and in that way can prevent many of the problems we're discussing here. Then it is quite obvious that it is also necessary to make changes in some of the areas for which the State is responsible. Then I think it's not primarily about more resources, but about organizing us in smarter ways. That's why the Storting will have a case about reforms and changes in the organisation of child protection. We aim to send the legislative proposal at the hearing in 2012 and to make final proposals for the Storting in sufficient time for it to be dealt with before this enlargement period is over. This will mean that we get a child protection that both resource and organisational is better suited to solving these problems than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e617	Borghild Tenden – to today's last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e620	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge, because I did not feel in any way that the representative Aspaker got an answer to his question. As many people have experienced, child-rescue children and children living in institutions are a very vulnerable group and require close follow-up in the educational process. Therefore, the representative Trine Skei Grande took up this relationship with the Minister of Knowledge on the basis of an article in the magazine Education. In his reply, the minister of knowledge stresses that this is the responsibility of the county council, but the left feels that the answer given to Trine Skei Grande was a bit defensive. That is why, today, I want the Minister of Knowledge to be a little more specific about what actions the Ministry of Knowledge can take to do something for this vulnerable group.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e627	My point is that child protection also often has great potential for learning that is not triggered, precisely because they can have a slightly changeable life, but also because they – unfortunately – meet with attitudes that they have a difficult starting point and therefore a more difficult starting point also for learning. I think we have to have a different attitude, that all children have a potential, and that we're going to have a school that allows all children to reach that potential. What is important for children's protection is that schools have an overview of what is actually their background, and whether they have any special needs, but otherwise make sure that they are just expected. Our entire New GIV scheme – what we are now doing for those who are in the 10th grade and have great knowledge gaps, through a special arrangement for more practical read, writing and calculation training – is not just about child-restraints, but about children who have knowledge gaps that they need to get close to before they start high school. That way I think we have to think about -- we have to think about whether we can't include them in what we're doing in general, in order to increase their implementation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e635	So the oral question procedure is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e647	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative Svein Harberg to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Research and Higher Education who is directing him. Question No 4, by the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Finance, lapses because the questioner is not present. Question 27, from the representative of Per-Willy Amundsen to the Minister for Oil and Energy, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e664	I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge the following questions: ‘Norway depends on many and good enough professional workers. One of the challenges today is that theoretically strong students are more likely to choose study-specific education programmes. Causes mentioned include: the possibility of a year of study abroad and the lack of a place of study. New social contracts are now being worked on, and in this context I think it might be useful to look at the possibility of apprenticeships and exchanges also in vocational training. Does the Council of State see this as an opportunity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e678	I am happy to receive this question from the representative Hanekamhaug and will inform you that we have several schemes that Norwegian professionals use. Through the Leonardo da Vinci action, which is part of the EU Lifelong Learning Programme, LLP, in 2011, a total of 1,543 pupils and apprentices applied for exchanges in another European country. It was awarded 548 scholarships. Students are on average out for 2-3 weeks, while apprentices on average are out for 3-4 months. I also want to mention Do it!, which is part of the Norway–Germany strategy. This is a bilateral exchange programme between Norway and Germany in the field of vocational and vocational training. The programme addresses students, apprentices and young workers. The content shall be professionally relevant. On the German side, the arrangements are closely linked to the German training model, where training is mainly carried out in enterprises. The exchange takes place both ways, and most of the stay is required to be organised as a practice in the enterprise. The goal of Do it! is to intensify the exchange of young people in vocational training and to further develop and consolidate the partnership between Norwegian and German training institutions and enterprises. In 2011, 104 students were awarded a scholarship through the Do it! agreement. The training agreement we have with France is currently developing opportunities for Norwegian vocational students to take part in their training in France. For a number of years we have had students in preparatory education programmes in schools in France. In addition, I would like to inform you that the Ministry has recently amended § 1-15, «Approval before the completion of previous passed training in Norway or abroad». The amendments imply that in the new regulation: emphasis is placed on including both the recognition of alternative individual subjects taken in Norway or abroad and the entire training year abroad, an initiative is taken to improve the visibility and clarification of existing provisions – the general rules relating to who can be admitted to Vg2 and Vg3 are not amended by that amendment to specify that it covers both the preparatory and vocational training programmes — i.e. proposing the same rules in all secondary education I would strongly encourage the county councils to use the arrangements we have. The representative Hanekamhaug's question here today helps to make it clear that there are actually some possibilities here that can be used even more than what is being done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e703	What the Minister of Knowledge has in mind is very important, namely that there are a lot of good programs today. We know something, among other things. The NHO has pointed out that, unfortunately, the budget framework means that only half of the applicants for the Leonardo da Vinci programme come to the mobility programme for apprentices. The budgets assume that only half of the applicants have the opportunity to participate. That is what we in the Progress Party think is a sin. Rather, there should have been increased budgetary frameworks, so that more students and apprentices were given the opportunity to participate in, among others. The Leonardo da Vinci programme, which has proved to be a great success since its launch a few years ago. My question will be whether the Council of State sees the need to increase the budgetary framework underpinning the LLP, and especially for the da Vinci programme today, so that more rivers and apprentices can participate in it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e712	As the representative knows, the budget is now under discussion in Stortinget. The Government has committed itself to the budget applicable to 2012. It is a budget that is rather tight in many areas because the economic situation is the same, and not least for the competitive sector. Of course, there are many areas in which all of us state governments would like to spend a few more dollars, but we have provided a budget that is a whole. But I would like to see whether this is an area that should be proposed strengthened in the next round of the budget, namely in the budget for 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e719	:I am very pleased that the Minister of Knowledge is looking at it, and yes – it is right that it is a tight budget, but then it is also important to look at the difference between expenditure and investment. We are very clear that investment in education is also an investment in future value creation, so that actions such as this exchange programme are actually a good priority now. The Minister of Knowledge was also involved in other programmes in which one can participate. Much of the problem we are seeing today is that the counselling service does not have enough competence and knowledge about the opportunities that exist today, so that these are not communicated to the students and the apprentices. Therefore, my next question is whether there is an opportunity on the part of Stortinget to increase to get more information from the consultants, so that they can pass on to their students and apprentices how they can apply, how they can move forward, and how others can participate in the various exchange programmes that exist today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e726	I think of it as a call and take it with me as to how we can make the programs that exist today known. Then it's like honey to my ears when the representative says that investing in education is one of the most important things we can do. I fully agree with that. It beats steel and concrete many times, because knowledge is the ability to participate in the working life throughout life. That's really what determines whether we're a rich and successful country in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e735	My question to the Aasland State Council is as follows: ‘It is a comprehensive and resource-intensive process to obtain a NOCUT-approved training offer. It is desirable that new offers be made and that existing ones develop. However, after having undergone such processes, many people do not feel able to implement the offer as grants for training are refused because of a lack of financial framework. This is very frustrating and is depressing to new applicants. How will the Council of State ensure predictability so that this type of initiative does not stop?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e744	NOCUT, the national body for quality in education, is a professionally independent body of the Ministry of Knowledge with the aim of ensuring and promoting the quality of higher education and vocational education. This is done, inter alia: by approving the quality assurance systems of institutions, by accrediting institutions, by approving new training offers and by supervising established education. NOCUT can assess new study offers for both colleges, scientific colleges and post-secondary schools. Higher education and scientific colleges may apply for NOCUT for the accreditation of studies which each institution itself does not have the power to establish, while professional schools which are not recognised as the provider must apply for the recognition of all new training offers. The criteria for the approval of study offers are regulated by regulation. NOCUT makes a professional assessment of the training as described in the application from the institution. The professional recognition of an education does not necessarily mean that it will be started. This may depend on a number of other factors and assessments made by the institution, in relation to resources, on the application basis and on its own strategic fields. Professional recognition through NOKUT, in other words, gives the opportunity to create a training offer, but it does not trigger a right to state funding. In the years leading up to 2014, the government will have established more than 19 000 new university and higher education places, of which about one third have been allocated to institutions as free strategic places. This means that it is up to the institution to decide for itself, based on the number of applicants and regional needs. My experience is that universities and colleges are good at using this space of action to launch new offers where they have received professional recognition. Government funding of offers by new institutions — specialised schools or private higher education offers — depends on the overall budget framework of the Ministry of Knowledge. It is not automatic for a new professionally approved institution to receive state funding for its offer. The government shares the questioner’s view that there is a desirable development in which there is room for new offers, but institutions applying for the recognition of new training offers have to deal with existing budgetary frameworks or apply for government funding as part of the ordinary budgetary process.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e759	I record that the Council of State had a thorough review of what was the basis of my question, because there we agreed, that's a fact. The question was how the Council of State will ensure predictability, so that such initiatives do not stop. The reality today is that if a new training offer is to be established where there is no education, there is a requirement to invest quite a lot of money, there is a requirement to ensure and demonstrate that one has the right professionals in place. It simply means that you have to hire people without having an education offer to go and without knowing if you're getting money from the state. This means that such measures cannot be established, because it would be gambling with money. So I ask again, how will the Council of State ensure predictability, so that this type of initiative does not stop?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e768	If the representative heard what I said, I actually answered the question. We have different categories of education offer, and I'm not quite sure which category the representative is in on his question. Where the offers are accepted by NOKUT and are to be established, e.g. For example, in a state higher education, it is up to the individual college — when you use it, for example. are offered free study places – to set up such offers. Then it is an advantage that they are approved, because then you save the time it takes to obtain the authorisation when you have the opportunity to establish this. Where there is a whole new school, or a whole new offer, you have to know that it is a good economy, for example. from private sources and that there is a student access that ensures that there are actually students at the offer. These are questions that I think the representative Harberg is also concerned about, that there should be quality, and that there should be an application basis for the education we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e779	The last thing is no doubt that we are completely in agreement. But the reality is what I got confirmed again: the Council of State says that this is a good solution for the state institutions, but the other institutions get into this system badly. New offers will therefore meet this challenge – they will be asked to have employees, premises, full arrangements without knowing whether they will receive government grants after approval. It should be interesting both for the Council of State and for us in the opposition to get incentives in order to further develop the education offer with new offers, and it is initiative in relation to this I challenge the Council of State, and on which I hope I could get some positive signals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e784	Both future, new training offers and existing ones depend on the budgetary frameworks that are provided at all times. If I, for example, I had to take money from some of the established government education services, as the budget framework is now, because there is no room – at least not in the budget that we are presenting for 2012 – for something extra. I am absolutely convinced that both Harberg and I are interested that our existing universities and colleges will have the frameworks that have now been proposed and that they will be able to operate their offerings within them. Then you get to work together on new offers. I am also convinced that completely new offers can be exciting for existing colleges, even though they are state-owned. It does not have to be a private initiative to launch new offers. So there we may be political disagreements, but I believe that the state colleges have room for action to also establish new study facilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e793	I have the following questions for the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘ Municipal self-government is an important part of local democracy. This applies, for example: priority of income and expenditure in a municipality. Everything suggests that Eid Municipality is punished for not introducing property taxes. The guidelines for the award of clients have been changed by the government, and it has created an opening so that the county councillors can withhold clients from those municipalities that have not introduced property taxes. Will the Council of State ensure that non-proprietary municipalities are not penalised?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e802	In the context of the client assignment, the county councillors shall make a total assessment of the finances of the municipalities. Local authorities are responsible for their own finances and for improving the economy, municipalities can both increase revenue and reduce expenditure. It has always been clear from the guidelines that the county councils should take into account the fact that municipalities are exploiting their income potential, but the county councils cannot require local authorities to increase specific income, for example. taxes on property, or propose cutting costs. This is revealed by the Ministry’s Guidelines on the allocation of skinners from the county in 2011. This is the point of reference of the municipalities' income base on page 3: «In addition to framework grants and taxes on income on wealth from persons, municipalities also have other types of income. Citizens may take into account other types of income in the context of an overall assessment of the municipality’s economy. Citizens should be careful to allocate discretionary means to municipalities which do not exploit their own income base or which oppose the implementation of sound expenditure reduction measures. Members shall take the view that priority should be given to increased revenue or reduced expenditure by each local government itself, as well as to the sources of revenue which should be increased or the areas of expenditure which should be reduced.» The Ministry, in a letter dated 5 September of this year, has made it clear to the counties that, in the case of the award of client funds, it is up to the local government itself to choose the source of income to be increased or the expenditure to be cut. Thus, it is not the property tax itself that should be the determining factor for the ham allocation, but a total assessment of the economy of each municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e814	I thank you for your answer. Eid kommune is the municipality of Sogn and Fjordane which has the lowest expenditure-adjusted income. Eid municipality is the only municipality in the county with income below 100 pst. which does not get skinners. The County of Sogn and Fjordane wrote in their letter to the Ministry on 13 September that, on the basis of the guidelines, the county has, after an overall assessment, taken into account the municipalities that do not have property tax. In my view, this is clear evidence that the municipality of Eid is being punished for not introducing property taxes. When Erna Solberg was the municipal minister, she refused to ask the county councillors to impose property taxes. Will the Council of State insist on the removal of the sentence as former Council of State Haga, which said that the county should not require the imposition of a tax on property to be imposed in order to obtain client funds?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e823	Point one: There is no such requirement today. I've quoted that from the guidelines. Point two: It must be up to the local government to increase the tax on property rather than to cancel the hospital and send back old homes, provide a poorer welfare offer, if that is the option – if one has to tighten up the economy. It is quite wrong to keep outside individual areas as if they were sacred cows, while other areas should be subject to cuts or increase income of different kinds. I do not intend to make changes. The current situation allows local self-government to slow down, to decide whether to increase income, to reduce expenditure. Both parts must be considered by the county council, but leave it up to the local government to decide on the basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e830	I thank you for your answer. When you look at the reactions in the municipalities, I have no doubt that many municipalities feel compelled to introduce property taxes. In my view, there is no doubt that this government wants to force the municipalities to introduce this tax. We have a tax-smooth government, and not least we have a government that has so little confidence in local democracy that they are still coming with new state orders that strangle local self-government. It's a paradox that this has been a part of the Center Party for six years. Right wanted to give more power to the municipalities over to the state. Does not the Council of State see that the Central Party and government are on the verge of turning a bone hook into real and real local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e839	Talk about writing about the mess! In the years in which this government has its seat, there has been a formidable growth in revenue. We can sit down and look at numbers that were then right in government. It's almost so it'll be an insult. This has been a formidable increase in the number of annual works. There were 8 000 in the four years Erna Solberg appointed as Minister of State. Now we have a formidable growth of almost 50,000 years. There have been much less earmarking and detailed management of the municipalities. Earmarking is detail management. There was far more right-wing than it has been under this government. There are historically low earmarks of funds for the municipal sector. I want them to give priority. Yes, the state is taking the lead. The state has always done that. The state also has an obligation to do so in order for us to have both an equivalency and a direction in the policy that both government and government have both the right and the duty to define. However, within those frameworks, municipalities have separated more economic space and the possibility to prioritize locally. It is also the case that we are discussing today – it has to be a local priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e855	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e862	‘The Minister of Finance has expressed concern about the economic situation of the EU. That concern was shared. On Norway, the Council of State of 3 November states: ‘It is mainly the competitive industry that suffers from a decline in growth and investment in Europe.’ In a poor global market, they survive companies with the best margins and adaptability. Norwegian industry has become less competitive as a result of many spe­cific political decisions on climate requirements and charges. What assessments does the government make about this?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e869	The ability of the Norwegian industry to convert is great. Nevertheless, it is worrying when the EU area, which is the largest market for Norwegian export companies, has as great challenges as what we see now. Norwegian enterprises have a consistently good environment framework, including in relation to the environment. The EU ETS, in which Norwegian enterprises participate, has rules that balance competition and the environment. In this system, the allowance price is equal to that of all European enterprises. Companies are faced with an equal price of emissions, which gives incentives to reduce CO2 emissions where it costs at least. Such a system also contributes to the development of more climate-friendly technologies. For large parts of industry, the cost of emission regulation is small compared to other costs. Other inputs are usually of greater importance, for example: investment costs by building new installations, the price of electricity and the price of labour. The proximity to the market is also often crucial. Parts of the Norwegian power-intensive industry are world leaders in the use of environmental technologies. This is because enterprises have been subject to environmental standards for a long time, as well as emission allowances from the authorities. The government has a strong focus on the competitiveness of industry in the international market. A forward-looking and predictable economic policy is an important part of government policy in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e881	I was really waiting for the answer, because this was very general. All costs mean something to the margins, i.e. the bottom line of the industry. The fact that energy is a cost, that's something everyone who drives aluminum, knows. The difference here is that Norway has more costs incurred compared to, for example, the United Kingdom. CO2 emissions than competitors do, and it is often precisely the costs that make the margins in Norway worse than in the competing countries and that make the environmentally friendly aluminium plants worse economically than the more polluting ones in other countries. Then what matters is whether you still have competitiveness in Norway. The fact that the market disappears a little because of economic decline, hits everyone, but it is they with the best margins that survive. Will the Council of State take a new round on this and ensure that strange climate costs and strange energy regulations are removed, so that Norwegian industry maintains its good competitiveness?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e891	It is precisely the answer, the whole thing, that one has to see things in context, that one has to see the total tax burden in a larger context. If we look at the overall level of taxation to which Norwegian companies and producers are subject, we have a level of tax that defends us well in international contexts. So I think it's important to have it with you. Then it's always possible for one to take individual regulations or individual charges out of the whole, but it's to the seventh and last whole in the many conditions that determine the competitiveness of companies, which are crucial. I'm not going to embroider it any more, but I think it's important that one has the whole stitching for the eye all the time, otherwise one quickly comes out on the sidewalk.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e896	Then I would suggest that the Minister of Finance pulls a little too thin and e.g.. trips to Carmøy, where Hydro has been active in aluminium for a long time, but has not reinvested as a result, inter alia, of: the fall-back case, in which they lost the right to own hydropower. But Hydro has invested in Qatar and is therefore allowed to use gas without special CO2 costs. This means that when new capacity is created in the world, it is not created in Norway, due to different framework conditions, not because the world does not need aluminium, but simply because it is more profitable for the company to invest elsewhere. Similarly, you know that, for example: Alcoa has estimated to have aluminiumworks based on gas in Norway, but the government’s framework conditions make it not interesting. It is particularly interesting to get the answer from the Minister of Finance now, when we know that the Ministry of Finance said yesterday that the Ministry of Finance recommended that one should not continue the commitments of the climate agreement on national measures, precisely because it is not feasible. Will the Council of State really address the problems of this government's policy for Norwegian industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e906	The Minister of Finance and other government councils are always involved in the reality of Norwegian enterprises and others producing in and from Norway. However, it will always be possible to find a country out there that has different conditions, with lower taxes and taxes than Norway has. But, as I said, one has to see this in a whole, both what serves the company itself, and what the company thinks makes sense. In addition, when it comes to the power regime and power contracts, the Minister of Finance feels that it actually belongs to another Council of State, but I'm going to take with me the views of the relevant Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e917	«The risk analysis of the Oslo Earth Tunnel was submitted on 31 October and provides for the permanent closure of the tunnel for all vehicles above 7,5 tonnes. This creates major challenges with increased traffic in Oslo and Moss-Horten. The industry has proposed instead that measures such as vehicle control, lighting regulation, etc. be introduced. None of these measures were properly assessed in the report. Will the Council of State consider these measures, so that the business community is freeing a long and expensive detour via Oslo?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e924	The fire in the Oslo Earth Tunnel on 23 June was a serious incident that damaged both the tunnel itself and equipment in the tunnel. Fortunately, human life did not go away. The damage was rectified within 14 days and the tunnel was opened for running gear below 7,5 tonnes. The state road authorities chose to keep the tunnel closed for running vehicles heavier than 7,5 tonnes until more risk mitigation measures were implemented in the tunnel. In addition to the fall, a number of measures have been taken to slow down the tunnel. Improvements have also been made to the efficient rescue work in the tunnel if new fires occur. Last week a risk analysis was submitted by the consultant company Safetec. This concludes that the measures implemented to date are not sufficient to reduce the risk level of heavy goods vehicles in the Oslofjord tunnel down to an acceptable level. This means that the state road service is further involved in the provision of several measures, both to reduce the risk of accidents occurring and to reduce the consequences of an accident. The road service aims at opening the tunnel to heavy running gear as early as possible in 2012. Measures taken by the representative Hoksrud are among the measures assessed. I would like to make it clear that the risk analysis presented does not suggest that the tunnel is permanently connected to heavy goods vehicles. The report suggests that more risk-reducing measures will make it safer for both light and heavy driving when it is opened up again to heavy driving. I take security seriously. It is therefore important that different measures that can increase safety be assessed and that the necessary measures be implemented before heavier vehicles can again be run in the Oslofjord tunnel. I am confident that the State Road Service will do what is necessary to maintain safety in the tunnel and on the roads around, while at the same time taking care of the transport of food.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e935	I think it's good for the Council of State to take security seriously. I think everyone's concerned about that. But this happened in June. Now we're in November, and now the Council of State says that the tunnel might open once in 2012. I think it's very debatable, when you know how incredibly important this tunnel is to business, and what it means in extra costs and not least the environmental impact on the communities that get heavy traffic either through Horten-Moss or through Oslo. It's a huge burden, and it makes it necessary to get action there. I think the Council of State could have been much clearer. I believe that lighting regulation is a measure that could almost be initiated tomorrow if it had been political will to do so, so that these trucks could get through the tunnel in a good and safe way. Then you would have a lighting regulation that allowed you to run only through one road, and then the safety would probably be much better cared for. I would like to challenge the Council of State: why not look at the measures that can be put into action quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e944	The risk analysis shows that the immediate preventive measures are good and will reduce the risk of serious events occurring. That's not enough, though. If heavy goods are allowed to run in the tunnel again, there is no need for immediate action. A high risk of new fires in the tunnel. If a new large fire occurs, it may give the same results as on 23 June or worse. In other words, the security of the tunnel is too bad. It's because the tunnel is 7.3 km long and only has one escape route. The father to take a guy and get caught in the smoke is so big. That is why the Swedish Road Administration is now placing great emphasis on the rescue measures in the further work. The aim is to achieve adequate safety so that the tunnel can be reopened for all vehicles. An additional tunnel evacuation form analysis has been ordered to see if such an action will provide better personal safety. Otherwise, the other measures that Hoksrud mentions are to be considered, as I have already said.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e951	I'm recording that the Council of State is just talking about it. I want to go back to the report that the Council of State is so concerned about. As far as I know, there is a report where this company has had conversations with people in the State Road Service and a few very few more. Then you've made a report without actually letting others get away with it and make recordings. For business, which runs 1000 trailers per day through this tunnel, it's a huge load, coming on the bypasses, and it's important to do something about it. I also think it's very important for business to get this tunnel in place. It will also cause an extra load on the drivers who have to pay the extra bill for all these heavy-duty vehicles that have passed through to be no longer able to pass through, in the form of tolls. And there will be postponements. If the Council of State had at least ensured that the lost revenues of the toll companies were financed by the State, there would not have been any delay in at least when this has been paid down. As I said, I really hope the Council of State takes this seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e962	In fact, I have to ask to be trusted that it is not about talking about such a serious matter as this or not taking this situation seriously. It applies to both business and other traffic through the tunnel as well as to the taxes that are on both sides of the Oslo soil and not least in Oslo, when the traffic system has been today because of this accident as it has been. For this reason, the State Road Service now does what they can — both listen to the recordings that come, and provide adequate analysis itself to improve personal security. That's the most important thing. Then the tunnel will be reopened as soon as it's defended.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e971	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Oslofd tunnel is undersized for current traffic. In two years’ time, the user payment will cease and an additional increase will have to be expected. At the same time, the associated road system in the Oslofjord link, especially on the west side, is not well developed. The load on the road system in the western region will increase further if the tunnel is closed for vehicles above 7,5 tonnes. The Council of State will consider the extension of the own-payment in the Oslofjord tunnel and see this in conjunction with, inter alia: Upgrading of the routes of administration rv. 23 And the Smoke Road?”
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e980	Traffic through the Oslo Earth Tunnel must be carefully assessed in both the short and long term. A further collection of tolls must be seen in the light of a possible extension of the Oslofjord Tunnel. I am aware that local arrangements for toll-financed road repair are being worked out in smoke and in the municipalities of Lier. In addition, St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009, i.e. the National Transport Plan for 2010–2019, considered that the development of the Dagslet–Lines section was currently taking place. 23 in the period 2014–2019 if there is local support for a toll financing scheme. When it comes to the future priority, I will refer to the NTP process and the weightings and priorities to be done locally in that context. For example, the Ministry of Transport has: The aim is to meet all county councils during the coming spring, i.e. spring 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e987	I thank you for your answer. I feel that in the answer she gives, the government council understands the challenge that when user payments go away, it's probably going to be a traffic jam in a very stressful, sensitive area. We have experience with that, and it has been my idea to ask this very question – that we now have to see this in context. We know, as the Council of State says here, that an extension may be relevant, but also the roads that are close to it need upgrades, not least when we know that traffic is high today and that it can get bigger. I also record that the Council of State mentions the Smoke and Lier and the entire Spike City Corridor. I hope it might meet here both with the Busherud County and Akershu County, as this pine tree strongly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e996	Let me first say that the leader of the Transport Committee raises a very important question. It is true, as he says, that the Oslofjord tunnel is undersized in relation to the current traffic development. Today, annual traffic through the Oslofjord tunnel is about 7 000. To continue to collect tolls there must be a view in conjunction with the development of traffic through the tunnel. Toll collection in the project is approximately 100 million. kr per year. It is quite clear that it is necessary in this context with good dialogue both with the Smoker and Akershus to also look at solutions that apply to traffic on the road side of the fjord, especially on the Buskerud side.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1001	I thank you again for the answer because I feel that here is something of my concern attached to this reception by the Council of State. Now, when the department is going to have dialogue with the parties, I think they're going to have to look at the good projects that make user payments not disappear completely, and we're all of a sudden getting a significant increase in traffic. So I would also like to be in a dialogue and look at what good projects we can do to improve this. When we know that both the Oslofjord connection itself needs an extension, and that the road network in the vicinity of this needs it, I don't think we need to set ourselves up to make a lot more traffic, and that he comes suddenly. We've only got two years. That's why I'm busy that there's a dialogue between the department and the county councils and the municipalities in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1008	So I can confirm this: we need to have a dialogue with both of these states. An extension of the toll collection in the Toll Station on Moon – i.e. on Akershus-side – is not being worked on today to finance the road in the Smoke. There are several reasons for this. This is problematic in relation to the requirement that there should be a link between payment and benefit. But it is very important here both to be aware of what the situation is today, and how it can be, and to be guided was when it comes to measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1017	‘It is a failure statement for the country’s long-term road planning that we need to close a central transport year such as the Oslofjord Tunnel. The industry is charged extra costs, road safety on the bypass around Oslo soil is significantly worsened, and environmental pressures are increasing because the government does not have a long-term perspective in its policy. We have many tunnels in this country, and several of them are underwater. Can the Council of State refer to an overall strategy in this context?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1024	We have a lot of old tunnels built with lower safety requirements than those in force from 2007 through the Minimum Safety Regulation for certain road tunnels. The new requirements have been incorporated into the road standard for tunnels. In the 2010–2019 National Transport Plan Report, extra resources were provided to improve existing tunnels, which means that we are already improving the safety of many tunnels on the national road network. In the context of the National Transport Plan 2014-2023, the State Road Service has carried out a comprehensive survey of all tunnels on the national and county road network. A report is now being prepared that will provide an overview of measures and costs by satisfying all the requirements of the Tunnel Safety Regulation and other measures necessary to eliminate technical downfalls in the tunnels, including: replacement of old equipment. The overview will also include the need to establish emergency exits and the construction of additional tunnels. In its proposal for a national transport plan for 2014-2023, the State Road Administration will present a proposal for a strategy to ensure that the safety of all tunnels on the national road network complies with the current regulation. This will be an important basis when the government provides the National Transport Plan Report 2014-2023 early in 2013. With this, I believe that I have done well for both the work currently being done, and that such a strategy will be put forward as the representative calls for, so that he will be able to take part in that debate in connection with a new national transport plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1035	I thank you for your answer. I see it as a natural follow-up of such an event that there comes such a strategy, and that it comes in the NTP roll. The exciting issue is whether funds will also be made available for these necessary improvements, which will necessarily be quite extensive. This is one of many underwater tunnels. We don't have as many submarines as we have tunnels on land, but the underseas are in a slightly special category, because they lead to completely different safety requirements, and that's also slope conditions. My question is: does she see that this short-term closure will have consequences for other underwater tunnels before you can manage to repair these tunnels that will obviously be part of this NTP strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1044	We have to clarify everything first: the work I have just referred to is not a result of the accident in June. On the contrary, the regulation came in 2007. Additional means of repairing some tunnels were found in the current NTP, and the State Road Service has a mission as the basis for a strategy in the next national transport plan. Then it's clear that when an accident like this happens, it's going to be a different matter than it has been in the underwater tunnels – it's quite natural. When it comes to the way it's being followed, the size of resources, etc., I think that the Halleraker representative will have a lot of understanding that there's something early to answer here and now, but that it's an important theme, it's absolutely certain.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1049	It was just one of my themes – I also asked if it has consequences like possible shutdown for heavier vehicles also in other underwater tunnels. Some other subsea tunnels do not have the re-routing capability that has been the subject here earlier today. But what has not been the theme is the great extra stress this will bring on the Moss-Horten route, and especially the Eastfold town of Moss. I think that should also be mentioned in this change of words. It is clear that we can get a very unfortunate extra load here, and those who live in this area should get an answer and an overall assessment from the Council of State on what thoughts she is doing about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1056	Let me also show you the two previous questions, both when the tunnel can be opened for even heavier vehicles than those that are getting through today, and what can be done to ensure better road systems especially on the Buskerud side in relation to today. Let me also say that in Moss this is problematic – there is no doubt about it. Now it was about the Oslofjord tunnel, and it is clear that there will be an additional tax on Moss-Horten. These are questions I am aware of, and therefore look at; both when the tunnel can be reopened, what can be done to ensure better road system and also, of course, the Moss-Horten connection and the capacity there. So I also thank you for that reminder on this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1065	I would like to stay longer in Moss and Horten, but we now go to the train and the railway: ‘It has been established that the train company CargoNet, a wholly owned subsidiary of NSB, shall sell 5-10 locomotives of type Di 8. The sale of these locomotives abroad means that Norwegian freight train companies have missed an opportunity to upgrade to a more environmentally friendly and modern traction. Can the Council of State explain in detail the sale of these locomotives and, in particular, explain the business considerations behind the decision to sell to the rest of the world?’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1074	CargoNet owns today 17 operational locomotives of type Di 8. These were delivered around 1996 to the clumsy NSB goods. Personnel and material were part of CargoNet AS when this company was separated from the NSB in 2002. CargoNet has since its establishment had a monthly increase in combined transports. The size of the current locomotives makes them little suitable for this type of transport. They were in their time purchased for wagon loads and as a shunting locomotive at terminals. In order to draw trains with containers and semi-trailers on longer distances, these locomotives have to be run in most conditions two and two together. This is not operational, environmentally or economically satisfactory. The locomotive has therefore been replaced by new and larger locomotives that are better suited, among other things. on the Nordlandsbanen. The 8 locomotives have been on the market for CargoNet since 2003–2004, and there have also been discussions with current buyers, without results. CargoNet has not placed any restrictions on where to sell these locomotives. It is not such that a Norwegian train company is unable to enter the locomotive. I think that decisions about who is going to buy the locomotive are something CargoNet has to make on a commercial basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1087	Thanks for the answer. I would like to follow up on the fact that from 2003 to 2004, or possibly a little earlier, the Norwegian actors – as stated by the Council of State – have been well aware that these should be disposed of. My question does not concern the need to buy new ones. The other actors have trains, locomotives, which are over 50 years old and which pollute. These locomotives are 13 to 14 years old and have a lifetime of up to 30 to 40 years. So the question is more how Norwegian players after 2003 – 8-9 years ago – have been actively offered, as part of the competition, the opportunity to live on locomotives that, after all, are so modern compared to the pollutants that are now on the track.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1096	As I know this matter, CargoNet has made this sale known both through its own operators and differently. They have not set limits on whether there should be Norwegian or foreign buyers. So that's not what has our dilemma on their part -- that's the fact that it has our few stakeholders. CargoNet has to sell these locomotives to the highest bidder, and if it is, here are buyers offering a defensive sum, they are sold.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1101	Now it is true that this is a subsidiary of the NSB where the Council of State is General Assembly, and when the Council of State says that this has become known differently to the actors, it is also about making what you can actually sell the locomotives for, and that you actively advertise. The transport sector is important in order to reach the climate agreement at home. We know that the locomotives that private operators use today on the track pollute, because they are old – in Østfold we would say dorrold – over 50 years. These things are about 13-14 years old, and when the price is made known differently, it's probably also about making visible via advertising how much you charge in the price of this type of locomotive. Because I think the Council of State is also concerned that you should not pollute more than necessary. If it is the case that the Council of State now says that it is not too late for Norwegian operators to get on the road, there is also something to make visible at which price these locomotives are to be sold. How much are these locomotives sold for to England and Wales?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1108	The representative of Schou and I are some of them both that the transport sector is important in itself, and that it is important to reduce climate change emissions in the transport sector. So is it that CargoNet is a company owned by NSB, which is also a state-owned AS, and I don't fully understand where the representative wants – will we order CargoNet to sell at a lower price than the market price? In that case, it is contrary to the principle that the State that owns does not interfere in the commercial dispositions of companies that the State owns and operates as a subsidiary. It's a little surprising to get this particular question from a right-wing representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1113	The question has been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1116	President! I cannot see that the question was answered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1121	The question has been answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1129	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the planning phase of new service providers or upgrading of established road sections, a given traffic growth forecast is used. Historically, the forecast is underestimated in relation to actual growth, both in the short and long term. Will the Council of State take the initiative to improve the model for the calculation of traffic growth?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1138	One thing is certain: the future is uncertain. Nevertheless, as a basis for decisions on new transport infrastructure, we must have a view of developments well in advance. For this, we use transport models as a tool. Such predictions are supposed to be long-term. We cannot capture variations from year to year. So how good or bad they are is a long-term perspective. It is true, as the representative Haugland says, that over time these predictions – or basic forecasts as they are called – have been too low. This will be the case, among other things. the fact that transport models and other basic data used in the last half of the 1990s have some weak aspects. Forecasts of economic growth and population growth are important elements of the basic projections. These forecasts, or projections, are obtained from the Ministry of Finance and the Statistical Central Bureau. For example, real economic growth was greater than the forecast. There was, however, mainly the use of state-of-the-art base forecasts as a prognosis for concrete projects. I would like to make it clear that, in addition to the basic forecasts, the traffic growth that a new project can create will occur. It can be either innovative or transferred traffic and will depend on local circumstances. Traffic transferred may be from other modes of transport or other road routes. This can be verified during the analysis of the individual projects or a project package. So the question of what we're doing to better predict. There is a constant development work in transport modes and research environments. Among other things, we can now create basic projections for a distance, not just at the state level. For cities, it is important to know well how the load on the traffic system varies over time. There is a close dialogue with the Statistical Central Bureau and the Ministry of Finance on the provision of basic data. All of a sudden, I think there's now a better basis for traffic forecasts than before, but that the future is uncertain, we can never expect to get away from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1149	Traffic forecasts are used to calculate the profitability of road projects. It is also used to calculate the depreciation of road projects by means of toll financing, as a basis for the dimensioning of roads and for the calculation of road safety requirements. The methodology used to produce these forecasts was revised in 2001. The Transport Economic Institute has compared the annual traffic forecasts with actual traffic trends in the period following the revision of the forecasts and continues to conclude that traffic forecasts are too low. Is the Council of State afraid that future road development will be under-dimensioned in relation to traffic volume?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1158	If we go through predictions for different directions, I think we'll get something different because there are factors here that are hard to predict. But that there's a good example from projects that have just been completed, that the forecasts were wrong, i.e. that the forecasts were lower, there's no doubt. It is also why it is so important to work with the models incessantly – to provide the best possible basis for a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1163	Underestimated traffic forecasts would lead to under-dimensions of road sections. This is a waste of society's resources. There has been a debate today showing clear examples of the consequences of undersized roads. You have major traffic challenges and safety challenges. As for my home state, East-Agder, I am very afraid that the new line E39 from Kristiansand westward towards Stavanger will be built as a two- and three-field road because you assume an unrealistic low traffic growth. Does the Council of State agree in principle that any extension on Route 3 should be built as a four-field road?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1170	It is such that there is a KVU – concept-valuation – Søgne-Ålgård which is on the verge of these days, where both the department and the government will decide how that road is to be built. After the hearing is over, this decision will also be one of the many priorities of the next national transport plan. But what I can say is that there are different points of view about this road – whether it should be built as a two- or a three-field – or four-field in the long term. I've already seen that out of my ears. Therefore, it is important to have as good a basis as possible, and it is important to listen to those who run this route and who live in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1181	My question goes to the Minister of Justice: ‘Oslo and Norway are hit by a wave of rape. The Council of State has rightly referred to this as a near-drag. Unfortunately, the situation for those who are exposed to such atrocious acts is far from good enough. Among other things, they must: pay for psychological lessons themselves, as well as often live with fear that offenders will not be judged and punished. What will the Council of State do to ensure that far more attackers are prosecuted and convicted, and to ensure that victims receive satisfactory follow-up?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1190	Four of the questions I get to the Question Time today are about rape. It is good that this is lifted on the political agenda as emphatically as we have seen it in the last few days. Rape is a violation of human dignity on the most serious level and is a serious crime. The government has been working for a long time to combat rape, both in the streets, and not least in people's homes. It includes prevention, investigation, judicial proceedings, post-violence relief, compensation and the aid system. However, challenges remain. We will continue the work we are already doing to combat rape on a national basis, and we are intensifying efforts, especially in Oslo, in the context of the situation we have had in the last few weekends. I would like to stress that before we conclude with regard to the increase in the number of rapes, an analysis of the data base must be carried out with the same methods and thoroughness as that underlying the figures for the previous year. There is also reason to recall that the largest proportion of rapes occur between people who know each other. It can help to spread unnecessary fear when given a picture that there are rapes all the time, anywhere in Oslo, but there is absolute reason to take the situation in Oslo seriously. Having said this, we must do everything we can to make Oslo streets safe – including for women – and for more attackers to be arrested and convicted. On Friday 4 November, I met with the police director, the police chief in Oslo, head of the Oslo Police Department on violence and morality, Kripos and the National Attorney to hear their assessment of the situation and to discuss possible measures. It was a very useful meeting, and I am now confident that the police will take more action, as this situation requires. Rape cases are challenging to investigate and prove and require considerable resources. The police officer in Oslo has informed of the morality section now strengthened by ten positions. If necessary, the Rape Group at Kripos and the country will also be able to assist the Oslo Police. The rape group shall contribute to increased quality, reduced treatment time and faster resolution. The government has proposed four new posts in the 2012 budget for the Rape Group, so that it is now up to 16. I also remind you that the DNA reform has opened up the possibility that even less serious crime can be registered in the DNA registry, and it could help to identify offenders as early as possible – including those who commit more serious criminal offences. It's today good capacity for DNA person sample analysis, and I'm happy to be able to tell you that the residues are downgraded. Today, the limit of being registered in the DNA registry is 60-day prison. We'll consider lowering this limit, so that DNA samples are also taken by those who are convicted of less serious crime, which can contribute to more clarification. There is a small group of people who commit large parts of crime, and they also go back to less serious crime. However, this needs to be carefully considered, including in particular: be balanced against important data protection considerations. A prerequisite for carrying out investigations is that the victims of the rape report the infringement. An important contribution to increasing the frequency of reporting is to ensure that the person coming to the police meets with empathy and professionalism.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1211	I thank you for the answer and for the fact that the Minister of Justice seems to take the situation seriously. It triggers significant health and care costs to follow up the victim of an infringement. We're spending a lot of resources on research, and hopefully we'll make amends, if we can handle the attacker. I wonder if the Minister of Justice has ever set up the calculation: what does it cost to repair the damage, which is not being properly repaired, for the human being who is being subjected to this – the means that could have been moved to prevention and to more police, i.e. a social account for this whole situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1218	There are several attempts to create social accounts for crime in general and to deal specifically with it. But I have that perception -- and that's the same as the questioner's -- that it's much cheaper to prevent, to get out the offenders, so they don't commit any new abuses. For me, there's no need to get any closer numbers to it. That's the economy of it. But the second, and the most important, is the load on those who are subjected to this. Getting a city, getting a society where we have less violent crime, less violence against women, gives better quality of life to those who are exposed to it – of course – and that is the bearer. That's why I'm glad we think so widely about the efforts against, among other things. the offence of rape. We're not just going to fix this, but we're going to have to think about how our streets are in terms of lighting, transportation home, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1225	The Minister of Justice was also initially aware that most rapes take place among known or close relatives. There may have been a debate that has come a little under the shadow of the assault violence, but the answer to the Minister of Justice has been a lot about it. Can the Minister of Justice say a little about what thoughts he's making about domestic rapes?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1230	First of all, I'm glad the questioner is raising it up. So it's like, while we have these assaults, which are serious enough – I stress it – there's a much larger number of both reported and actually committed and occurring between people who know each other, at home. It has a significant intrusion in itself. I want to refer to the government's action plan turning point, which came a few years ago. There we have a good fulfillment rate, in my opinion, for example. with measures such as being able to get an aid lawyer before the notification is submitted – I think it is very important for women who are exposed to this, to receive advice on whether to go to the notification, because we see that the notifications are often too late. The fact that you have rape receptions that can ensure evidence when this has happened is absolutely crucial, and so I also have faith in the good forces out in the police who have now really put this on the agenda, and got the number of reports for violence against women.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1241	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘Today’s Business has revealed and surveyed the doping environment in Norway. In this context, it appears that Kripos does not give priority to the fight against doping crime. It also appears that Kripos is absent for participation in international forums where this is the topic. The reason for Kripos’ absence in all arenas for combating doping crime is lack of financial resources, which is also continued in the 2012 budget. What will the Council of State do to combat doping crime?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1250	The use of doping, including anabolic steroids, has usually been associated with athletes for performance promotion purposes. In recent years, however, the phenomenon appears to have spread to other groups outside organised sport. This gives us different challenges related to, for example: the possible relationship between doping and organised crime, and doping and violence. The knowledge of doping and doping crime is relatively fragmented. However, the knowledge we now have in this area seems to suggest that the use of doping drugs, including anabolic steroids, outside of sport, is increasing. Awareness of recent years, both through research projects and media reports, of developments in recent years is alarming. The question of making the acquisition, possession and use of doping agents criminally also in line with smuggling, production and placing on the market has been assessed in several contexts, including: in connection with the new penal code. The issue has been whether the problem has such a major impact on society and individuals and is so extensive that it should be penalised. In general, penalties have been used in the past where individual individuals are harmed. The government is committed to ensuring mobilising against doping in terms of prevention, treatment and, in particular, crime prevention. It has to happen on a wide flank. Doping will thus be one of the themes of the 2012 headlines on drug policy. In Ot.prp. No In addition, 22 for 2008-2009, on the law amending the penal code, the government announced that it would return to the Storting with an assessment of whether a ban on the use, acquisition and possession of anabolic androgenic steroids should be included in the Medicines Act. The government will return to this question in the next message to Storting. The police are concerned with the response to doping abuse in their strategic report ‘Police fight against drug crime in the period 2011-2015’. So the theme is not absent from the police's work. Much of the doping funds seem to be purchased via the Internet. I would like to mention that Kripos for 2012 has been proposed allocated 15 million. In addition, to strengthen the fight against Internet-related crime, which could also be expected to be used to combat doping. In addition, Kripos will strengthen the work of strategic analysis with a view to improving the follow-up to doping crime. Furthermore, Kripos will improve routines and cooperation with the police districts in view of a higher priority and enhanced response to such crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1263	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Doping is not something that has only been reserved for sport. You can go a long way back in time and see that it's been in use far beyond the field of sport. What I'm going through a little bit is that internationally, both the Swedish police, the American police and Interpol have had this high on the agenda and repeatedly invited Norway, through Kripos, to a collaboration to combat doping that generates a huge illegal and black economy, which is once again with and funding another type of crime. Why has Kripos not prioritised international cooperation to combat doping when it can be shown that it results in and generates other types of criminal activity?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1272	There's a picture of Kripos that I have to say I don't recognize. In fact, I assume that when Kripos is going to lift his work and give this higher priority, as I said in my main response, there will be close cooperation with other important international actors, especially Interpol, in the fight against doping.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1277	Then I would recommend the Council of State to read the Business of the Day. It is quite clear in many articles that there is a big gap within the police, and also a strong criticism of Kripos from the police that they have no prioritized task on this. I show you, among other things: until Today's Business November 2nd, where it says: ‘Cripos has admitted that the police do not prioritise the fast-growing doping crime. The reason, according to Kripos, is that there is no own strategy and action plan on doping from the Directorate-General for Police.’ In addition, it says: ‘It gets Kripos to do it,’ said police inspector of the Police Directorate, Harald Holmsen.’ I can mention a number of other examples where the police disagree with themselves. The Council of State points out that there will be a notification in 2012, and my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State take an initiative to ensure that there is at least an overall police strategy to combat doping?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1292	I now referred to the strategy papers that include: The police have included doping in their efforts to combat drug crime, the absence of a plan to do so, and Kripos is also working to strengthen the work of a strategic analysis aimed at improving the follow-up to doping crime. Then I – and I'm going to take the questioner's concern with me in the contact points I have with Kripos, and also in the letter of assignment that comes – assume that the international cooperation that is absolutely necessary in order to bring this matter to life is also carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1301	It's to the same state council, but there's a new question: ‘The police in Hordaland has had to cut a number of annual works in the last year. According to the Bergensavisen on 1 November 2011, a police patrol did not receive assistance to search for detectives in Bergen center on 30 October 2011 because the police were allegedly engaged in airing prisoners who were arrested at the police station. This is demonstrated by documented responses from the operating centre. Are the Councils of State satisfied with such a priority and with the police coverage in Hordaland?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1310	Let me start with my main response, just say that I am not satisfied with such a priority and not with the police coverage either. This is true of the whole country, and that is the background to the fact that we have actually made this policing plan for the police towards 2020, to which I come back. It is an overall objective of the government to ensure that the Police and the National Assembly has sufficient staff and competence for the tasks to be carried out. That is why, between 2005 and 2011, we have increased the appropriations for police and prosecution by 4 billion. kr, i.e. 48.8 pst. In addition, the State budget has now proposed an increase in the budget of 696 million. kr without including the investments in the Emergency Network. For the government, it is important that the strengthening carried out contributes to a police force that is better able to prevent and combat crime and at the same time meets the needs of the population for security, presence and service. We see that a good part of the crime figures actually goes down, among other things. the mobile rate of profitability that has been a major success in reducing. This budget increase also benefits the police districts of Hordaland. Over the period 2005–2011, the police district has had a budget increase of about 1 %. 200 million. kr, i.e. 43 pst. From 2010 to 2011, it is 35.8 million. kr, i.e. 5.7 pst. – a lot of numbers, but it shows that it won't be cut when you grant allocation to Hordaland. The police district is allocated a framework budget. Police district management is responsible for the allocation of resources and services in the district, and local management is the one who assesses whether resources should be used for positions or deployed in other important areas to ensure the best possible police service throughout the district.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1323	Thanks for the answer. As far as I can remember, this government has been responsible for justice policy since 2005. It is still perceived as a difficult situation for police officers throughout the country. The station manager at the Bergen Centre Police Station comments on the incident in question as follows: ‘But it’s a challenge that our patrols have to spend a lot of their time abstinence on custody prisoners, especially on weekends when there are not so many arrest managers at work.’ The chief of police in Hordaland District says to BA November 2nd this year: ‘The callout threshold has increased: [[...]] And further: ‘There is no doubt that there is pressure on the resources and that we need to adapt the activity level accordingly.’ The head of the Hordaland Police Union, Kjetil Rekdal, is dismayed and believes that you cannot live up to the expectations of the audience. Are these policemen wrong, or is there a wrong priority among those who do not make police services appear to be better?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1345	When the government decided to support the plan to increase police density in Norway by 2020, it included: The Joint Police Association is an important premiscuous supplier. We saw that we had to do two things. We had to train more policemen. That's what we've done. We were suggested to have a recording at the police high school at 550. We chose 720 students a year, and those who come out of the Police College have to be hired. It's a confession that we want closer police coverage, but then last year we reached 95 pst. Of those who went out of the Police College, that's the capacity we have at our disposal. Therefore, it was also important for the government in 2009 to increase by, among other things. 460 civil posts, among others to arrestors to facilitate capacity. So I think we're a good piece on the way, and that we've reversed the trend we saw before, that the police coverage went down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1350	Thank you again for your answer. The government, which has been running since 2005, says in its last government statement: ‘Sustaining social security is a welfare issue and a high level of public responsibility.’ Furthermore, ‘The government will continue to strengthen police budgets and staff’. It's true, as the Council of State says, that the capacity of the high school police has increased. That's good. However, the increase in resources remains visible. There is a shortage of policemen in active service. There is a lack of parking spaces, and there is a lack of parking places. These last two things are one of the things that characterize the problem associated with the Hordaland Police Chamber, which makes the police situation in Norway's second largest city difficult. What will the Minister of Justice do in the short term – and I am not talking about 2020, I am not talking about a plan towards 2020, but I am talking about measures in 2011 and 2012 – to improve the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1367	I would like to talk about 2012 and what we are doing now during the autumn, namely that in order to get more policemen in Norway, we need to train more. That's why we still have the exceptionally large recording of 720 students. There are three times as many as at the lowest in the last government, when the Progress Party was involved in making budgets with the bourgeois. Obviously, it helps. We will continue to give more money to the police. We do that for 2012, as I pointed out in my main answer, by getting an increase of 696 million. kr. At the same time, when we point to the employment of new police high school students in the budget – I think it is marked by 41 million. That is what we are doing in order to achieve the 2020 target, while also improving police coverage from 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1376	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The defence chose several years ago to convert command positions into civil positions because military professional background was not necessary to solve these tasks, examples are within staff, material and IT. Why does the Council of State not choose to organise the police action in the same way, in order to release resources with the right competence for visible police work to make our society safer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1385	This is also a question that I'm very happy to get, because I think it's a good question. But I think the premise on the question is going to be something wrong, because we have actually chosen to prioritize that kind of thinking. Once we've seen that it takes time to train high school police students, we need to free up all the police capabilities we have, not only in the streets, but also to conduct important investigations. Therefore, this is a work that has already started. In 2009, in the context of the financial crisis, we chose to grant extra money to the police related to more than 400 civilian posts. One of the reasons was that we saw that some civilians could take over some of the work that policemen did. Let me mention two examples: sitting in court up at the Tinghuset can be done by a short course of detention — they do not have the same knowledge and education as police — and prisoner transport. But there are several examples that police districts have actually made use of civilian positions and have been freed from 280 years of police work because civilians were deployed. You can, for example: facilitate an out-of-band interrogation, bring the tape in and have a civilian, not a policeman, sit and write. This work is very important. We're not done with that. But luckily, there have been significant changes in the police, à la Defense. I also believe that there will be a very important challenge in the forthcoming report on the reform of results, i.e. on the organisation of the police, on the work of the police and on the priorities of the police. But I fully agree with the questioner: we have a great opportunity to increase police capacity. We've already used it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1396	I thank you for your answer. I have been informed that recent police officers have not been allowed to extend their temporary entry into the Minister of Justice's home state, Hedmark. In his own municipality of Elverum, one is referred to as raising the daily allowance at Nav, and instead, retired police officers are used to solve the ordinary tasks. Nav's offer includes: would be cutting the lawns in the municipality. What does the Council of State think about this form of resource use?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1405	I want all police high school students into the police. There's no doubt about it. That's why I was relieved and happy when we got the figures for the 2010 coal, where the employment rate is 95 pst. There are not so many other professional training courses that reach so high. After the steps that have now been taken, especially since 22 July, I am convinced that we will need every police college student, including those who came out in 2011. The last numbers I saw were that about. 360 had passed the exam – I take a certain reservation about it – and that 280 of them are employed. With the efforts now being made, among others. In Oslo, where we have 95 students, with what's in the budget, 41 million. kr, and the extension of the engagements that came this year, I'm pretty sure we're getting on an equal number when we're going to count to next year how it's gone with this year's coal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1412	I thank you again for your answer. Before the Minister of Justice gets enough policemen in place to do police tasks and not civil tasks, are we going to ask the criminals to wait to commit crime, or are we going to expect him to follow up his intention to make this society safe for us women as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1419	After all, we're not waiting to leave civilian tasks in the police to civilians. As I said in my main response, it's made a significant effort. It is believed that, among other things: released 280 annual works. But there's more left, so that work should continue. Then I would like to remind you that when we look at some of the developments in the crime scene in Norway — the figures presented this summer — there has been a considerable increase in the security of the police, particularly with regard to the travelling crime of profits. has cooperated better across regional borders. When we get a half of the number of villa break-ins in Oslo, we have to enjoy it. Then the police – and we all – face major challenges in combating violence both in close relations and in the streets. I believe there is every reason to strengthen the effort, which I have also explained in the previous answer today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1430	Here comes a repetition: ‘The undersigned has pointed out on several occasions the fact that there are very few operational police boats on the coast from Bergen to Trondheim. This is a situation in which it may seem that, not least from the Council of State, but from the Directorate of Police, it is not a priority despite several accidents and not least an increase in traffic. Can the Council of State explain how many operational police boats are available on this route? Is the Council of State satisfied with this, and if not, will the Council of State take action in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1439	Today’s questions illustrate all the challenges facing the police, and all the needs you face. There is good reason for the significant strengthening of the police that has taken place from 2005 until now. Much of the money has also gone into investing in new equipment, and this applies not only to boats, but also to uniforms, protective equipment and weapons and also to cars. The issue of the police's maritime service I have presented to the Police Directorate, which states that it is the individual police district that prioritises and determines the level of activity – we do not do that from the Ministry of Justice. In the case of police boats on the Bergen-Trondheim section, I have the following information: In the Hordaland police district, there is one police boat. The boat is usually operational from the end of May and from August. For the rest of the year, it is on standby and used to the extent that there are personnel with boat driving skills available. However, the Bergen police have started to establish a full-time standby and train several boat drivers, so that there are staff with boat drivers at all times available. The other police districts – Sogn and Fjordane, Sunnmøre, Nordmøre and Romsdal and Sør-Trøndelag – currently have no operational police boats. Police districts assess this in order to get more police service out of using funds in other ways, including: for the necessary renewal of the car park and for the maintenance of police officers in posts. Nevertheless, on the basis of the issue today – and also the debate we have had this summer – we will address this issue in the forthcoming letter of allocation to re-examine the need, especially north of Hordaland.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1452	Thank you for that. I'm not so surprised by the answer and, of course, the statistics presented, because it's a fact along the coast that police preparedness at sea is far too bad. In addition, it creates great uncertainty. It is a coast with many islands, dunes and distances with a rapidly increasing recreational boat traffic. In addition, even the Storting pointed this out and gave new tasks to the police at sea, including: the per mille limit and follow-up of the use of lifejackets, etc. to do. We've seen a lot of nasty accidents that have caused drowning. I'm glad that the Council of State now finally seems to want to include this in the letter of assignment, but the problem is the economic situation in the police districts. If you just have to do what you've done so far and say that you have to take the ordinary operating budget of these investments, there are still jobs that are kept awake. Will the Council of State look at the possibility of providing additional appropriations in this case?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1459	I never shoot money I don't have, at least not here in Stortinget. As far as the police are concerned, they are addressed in the ordinary budgetary procedures. I have explained that the reinforcement of the police to next year – with the investments in the Emergency Network – is over 2 billion. kr. There are large investments, there are large increases in operating costs as well, and the police are facing large investments. But I will do what I can to also get the necessary boat service in place, because I understand many of the needs associated with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1464	It is nice that the Council of State understands the situation along the coast, because it is precarious and has been so for several years. As the Council of State is familiar with, I have addressed this issue repeatedly. Now let's hope that this can be a happy ending, and that at least we can get better resources in the maritime service, because it's very important to get ready at sea too. I would like to point out that when the Council of State repeatedly – I have heard several of the questions – refers to the strong increase the police have received, it is a little strange that that opinion does not therefore have the operative police officer out there. If we take Sunnmore police districts, you're in the situation that you haven't got any extra investment funds. The means of operation actually obtained will have to be used to keep jobs on the watch to make the necessary investments, at least if you look at the need. This district is already the worst manned area in Norway in terms of police resources, with about a quarter of them. 1 per 1000 inhabitants. I'm looking forward to the Council of State taking hold of this. I hope the Council of State can quickly ensure that there is a police boat in place, because the situation we see along the coast today is pointless.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1473	What is in the budget is fairly clear. It has never been disputed that police districts have had significant increases in their budgets. But it is quite clear that there is a significant need for investment. This applies not only to police boats, which I was in on, but also to vests, cars and weapons, where investments have been made – I think you are on a very good path – and not least the emergency network and ICT. Of course it costs. But it is also the case that no investment budget is allocated to police districts. So, you get a framework budget and you have to give priority to it. I understand that it is difficult to see that the budgets increase when you feel that what goes into operation is too small. But I can promise the questioner that in terms of both next year's budget and future budgets, we will do what we can to get sufficient funding in place, and ensure that the growth that the government has contributed to in the last six years continues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1482	It will be a long affair for the Minister of Justice today: ‘On 29 May, security guards in the government quarter arrested a man who, in their opinion, raped a woman. When the guards contacted the police, they were informed that the police were busy, and the guards had to let the man go. Three days later he must have committed a new rape, according to the police. Over a long period of time, there has been a strong focus on prioritising work against this type of crime. Nevertheless, there is no arrest of suspected perpetrators. Can the Council of State explain why?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1491	This is a question that I had to present to the police chief in Oslo – because I was not on duty at the time – and I have received the following statement: The watch record of the government guards of 29 May 2011 shows that the situation raised by the representative Syversen was alerted to a police patrol in the area in another mission. The government quarter guards suspected that something criminal was about to happen, and “kept out” and held back a human being. The woman, however, was not there, and the government guards had no reason to say what had happened besides that they had seen that he was taking on the woman's abdomen. The government guards didn't know what relationship the man and the woman had to each other. The woman reported the ratio some time after the action. The perpetrator was arrested by the police on 1 June 2011 in connection with a new rape case and has been in custody since the attack. The case was dealt with in the Law on Lawyers from 2 to 4 November. They're not fallen. As Minister of Justice, I have no opportunity to go into individual cases, and therefore I cannot comment further on this specific matter in view of the criminal offence. Rape cases, including attempted rape, may be difficult to follow up and difficult to prove. That is why we are now strengthening the investigation capacity of the morality section in Oslo with ten new posts and the rape group at Kripos with four new posts, so that they have a total of 16 in addition to the general reinforcement. Violence against women in general, including rape, is a priority policy area for government. This is serious crime, and in our two government periods, we have taken a number of measures to combat this type of violence. There's every reason to take it seriously, both the person who happens on the street, and the person who happens at home with people. It needs to be done with more tools than just more police — prevention, home transport, street lighting, night nightlife mobilization and voluntary organisations — while making it clear that research is important in these matters and that there is a greater deal to be done. I refer here to the national lawyer's instructions on objectives and priorities and that rape cases should just be given priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1506	I think a lot of people run over when guards at the government building call the police and say that there has been a criminal act of the kind we are talking about here, that at least apparently it is not possible to follow up because of capacity. I now heard the statement that the Minister of Justice has received from the management of the Oslo Police Department, but just as fully this is a situation that is not unique. What we see in today's World Times, underpins something of the same, just this question: Do we have police in the streets when there's most need for them, or are they out on the streets when there's least need for them? Is there anything the Minister of Justice is reflecting on?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1511	That's something I'm reflecting on. I have so far read the World Times today, and I am looking forward to the fact that the police have just taken action on the basis of that analysis to turn the effort into the areas where we need to have people in the streets. It's clear you need to have people out there at other times, and related to things that happen on weekends too, but I think it's a good move that the Oslo Police are doing. This also raises the discussion that we have had many times in Stortinget, and the need we have to look at the police's results. The forecasted growth message for next year — the Results Reform, as we have called it — should just go in and look at the priorities of the police. I believe that an honest, sincere political debate with the Norwegian police will also mean that priorities must be made and not accepted for all tasks, and look at how to allocate your resources to the days of the week.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1518	I think it's very interesting signals that the Minister of Justice gives about the resource situation in the police, not just the debate about whether we've trained enough or not enough, but how we're actually using the forces we're sitting on, and whether we're using them in the right way. It is a clear management task for the police, of course, but as the Council of State now indicates, from a political level one will also look at what to prioritise, and thus allocate resources accordingly. There may not have been so many questions, but I just want to confirm that that is what I think is also a debate that many in the UK are looking forward to participating in.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1525	The Minister of Justice – if he wants to comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1528	Yes, thank you, President, for I believe that some of the most important things relating to the public sector as such are how we use the resources at all times, and that we need to be better able to go into the content of the appropriations and look at how we use them. But we have some good experience with the Norwegian police against being able to use the resources differently. That in 2009 the government chose to grant 460 civilian posts and was given several hundred years' work for police work outside, I believe is such a grip. It is also a very good example that they chose to take a joint approach to mobile mining crime, particularly around Oslo and cooperation across district borders, and to halve the number of house invasions. I believe that we also need to be more prepared to discuss this at any time for the future, because we see that the crime scene is changing. It takes a different kind of effort. Taking the call-in policy to take mobile profit criminals is a very good example of how to change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1539	I would like to ask the Minister of Justice the following questions: ‘In 2009, the Police College opened in Kongsvinger, Hedmark. Those who started the study in the first year are now graduates this year. Over the last few years, we have seen that the police coverage in the country has fallen as measured against the population figures. Can the Council of State guarantee police jobs for all the graduates of police training in Kongsvinger?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1548	It's no secret that I'm very happy with the police high school education at Kongsvinger. But my work on measures to ensure that police college students still have as high a level of employment as they actually do needs to be about the whole country. I am quite convinced, as I have also said earlier today, that with the budgetary measures associated with this, what has already been done by the fact that 280 of over 300 students who have stood are now in the payroll of the police, and that last year they had 95 pst. employment, we have to deal with it. There are two reasons in particular: the first is that after July 22nd, the government made an extra allocation to the police and got 100 students employed – 95 in Oslo and five in northern Buskerud – a significant increase in efforts, and the second is that a government budget for the next year was put in, so that more than 600 million were allocated. to the police, including the means, as stated in the budget, to employ the police college students and also to extend the engagement that goes on. I am happy in Kongswinger, but some special guarantee for exactly Kongswinger students I will not issue. As long as you're willing to apply for a job around the country – and consist, it's important – I think the high school police students are meeting well, and I'm going to do what I can.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1555	I thank the Minister of Justice for the answer, and it is clear that you have to pass to get a job. The Eastlander newspaper, which the Minister of Justice and I are well aware of, covers our home country, has had some articles on the police coverage in Hedmark. Monday, November 7, and Friday, November 4, this year, there are relatively ominous articles we can read. Among other things, it says on 4 November: ‘Police coverage’, and on 7 November it says, for example, ‘Police coverage’.\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t «Police Master Bakke has 1,16 annual works per 1,000 inhabitants in Hedmark and kutter 12-13 annual works this year.» I think this testifies to the fact that it is not very good, and I have heard from previous questions and previous answers today that you owe it to investments. Maybe it would have been a way to solve this if you had separated investments and operations? I assume that it's the drift that makes there's not enough money to have people in the streets.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1567	If you separate operations and investments, there's one question that stands back, and that's, how many dollars do you give? We know from the budgetary procedure that that's the total amount that counts. I have become more convinced that it is right that local police districts decide the amount of investment, what equipment to buy, and when to buy it, and that the framework budgets that are now taking place are appropriate. Then I would point out that in the case of Hedmark, there has also been growth in the budgets. It has been felt that a good share of the civil status that came in 2009 has been found to be a good development in crime in several fields. So I'm quite convinced that when the 2012 budget comes, Hedmark will be able to also bring in new police resources, but they will be distributed across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1574	I would like to thank the Council of State for a reply. If there is growth in the police's budgets, we can certainly discuss – at least it doesn't feel that way for those who get the money, for the head of the Police Union in Hedmark, Reidun Martinsen, "will in no way characterize the police action as a budget winner". That's why I say it doesn't help getting money if they go to e.g. a new police house in Hamar. It is not that we do not need a new police house – we must have – but if it goes at the expense of annual work, that you have to cut annual work, I agree that then the budgets are not big enough. When you know that Hedmark has the country's lowest police coverage per capita, i.e. 1,16, that we are also a border count – every day there is crime, smuggling, etc., across borders – and when we hear that the county offices are to be closed, for example. in Våler, is it close to asking the Minister of Justice: does he not think that no more visible police is creating uncertainty for the citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1586	I disagree with the questioner that there is doubt that the budgets have increased. The debate has to be about: Is that enough? There is a significant increase in police budgets from 2005 – let no doubt about it. There is a significant increase in the education of police in Norway — it is a triple, it has never been so high. When you have an employment rate of 95 p.m., you have to promise it well, even for Hedmark. I understand that a lot wants more, and we get to work for that. At the same time, it is gratifying for Hedmark, and for some other states, with the great investment in the police that the Police Union has also been concerned about getting us in place, namely the development of a completely new connection. It costs a lot of money, and it's added $1.6 billion. to it on the next year's budget. It's phase 2 in a project that I hope will also reach Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1595	‘Haugaland and Sunnhordland are one of the police districts with the lowest police coverage, with only 1.05 police posts per 1 000 inhabitants. This is almost half the Minister of Justice's target of two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants. In the summer, resource shortages led, for example, to: for several lumni offices to spend up to eight weeks in the summer. Has the Council of State caused the criminals to take vacations at the same time, or will he otherwise ensure the security of the population without police coverage?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1602	A paradox: Now I think I've got three questions about three different police districts, and everyone is being presented as having the lowest police coverage. It's a matter of reflection. It is an overall goal for the government to ensure police coverage – and I have explained it a number of times now – by increasing educational capacity, increasing budgets and recruiting those who come out of high school, as opposed to what the Progress Party chose to do when they supported the budgets of the civil government in the previous period, where, therefore, there was a significantly lower admission. As far as Haugaland police districts are concerned, the budgetary growth I have shown will also benefit them. Over the period 2005–2011, there has been a 47 million increase in the budget in the police district. kr – 35,2 pst. The budget increase from 2010 to 2011 is 6.6 million. kr – 3,8 pst. As I have also said before, the police districts are allocated a framework budget which means that the police chief has to decide how much he will spend on investment and how he will use the resources over the year as well. In order to increase flexibility and to increase the power of resources, the police district has chosen to close some service units in the summer months. This is true of the Suldal, Etne, Tysvær, Sveio, Fitjar and Bømlo offices. However, those service units are part of five geographical holdings which, through an operational concept, share police preparedness throughout the year. The closure of some service units in summer therefore does not affect operational preparedness, and police management believes that the public can feel secure throughout the year. I just remind you that this isn't something new. This has been done several summers, under varying governments. I think that's good, because you're just using the resources out and the crew you have. Because there is holiday settlement and less crew at work, you use the crew you're going to have, in the cars, so you're actually where things happen. So there are some other services that people have to travel a little bit longer to get, whether it's passports, or it's other civil tasks. But I believe that the police still have to be able to make such an assessment during the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1617	First, I'm going to say that I didn't say that Haugaland and Sunnhordland had the lowest police coverage. If the Minister of Justice had read all the words in that sentence and had also listened to what I said, he would have known that I said that it was one of the police districts with the lowest police coverage. I note that the Minister of Justice is again indebted to everyone else, including the Progress Party. There I just want to say that there can be no doubt at all that the Progress Party has allowed much more to the police than the sitting government has done. Then the Minister of Justice shows that everything is fantastic, and that a long time has had an overarching goal of securing police coverage in the country. He presents this as the most important thing this government has done. Then my question is: after six years as Minister of Justice, is the Minister of Justice satisfied with the objective of ensuring satisfactory police coverage in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1626	I want to arrest the questioner for one thing: I'm not saying everything is amazing. One of the reasons we've chosen to have so large police college recordings is that we think there are too few policemen out there. It takes three years to train them, and we're going to have big coal in the future to meet the challenge we're facing. It's a long-term plan. I have not seen any parties object to the plan and the recording we have at the Police College. That's the number of police officers we have at our disposal. If you have a situation where you think it's too small a police force, it's not as crazy to train three times as many as the Progress Party and the civilians did when they made budgets, and at the same time employ 95 pst. by them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1633	I can still not see that the Minister of Justice is taking this serious situation into account. Instead, he tries to smooth over and decorate the situation. Now it's like that, in addition to the election wave that we've seen, especially in the Oslo area, there's a wave of winnings in the districts where hikers move around and set up systematically. The impression is that in Norway there is a great deal of scope for profit and profit by dealing with this type of crime and the low risk of signing. If a sign is drawn, the consequences are small; one gets a good prison offer with a day’s money. Then my question to the Minister of Justice is: Is the Minister of Justice concerned that such an opinion is spreading, in particular, abroad, about operating with a winning crime in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1642	You might be concerned about that, but that's why we've been so clear in the measures, as I also explained on a previous question. We have seen a significant decline in much of the mobile profit crime because the police districts have made a very focused effort. They've cooperated, and they've pulled in the U.S. police force, which the Progress Party also wants to shut down. One has also seen – e.g. in Oslo - half of the villa break-in. We haven't done this in a vacuum, just with police efforts, but we've also chosen to continue our efforts by actually exhibiting this year the maximum number of atonement prisoners that we've ever done, just to send the most obvious signal, that you're not allowed to be in Norway when you act that way. I am convinced that a good part of these expulsions have sent out clear signals and have contributed to the fact that this type of crime has actually gone down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1655	‘These days, girls and women in Oslo are experiencing an assault wave of rape. The current situation requires a wide range of measures to make all parts of the city safe again. In the longer term, we know that long-term prevention is very important. How will the Council of State facilitate more preventive awareness-raising activities, including: in school and among our new countrymen, so that we can reach a zero vision against rape?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1662	Thank you for the question. I believe that this is also part of the debate on sexual abuse that we need to be better at taking. We are discussing very much what is related to police resources and the police's efforts, which are very important, but I believe that we are not getting away, both in terms of the violence that is taking place in close relations, and in terms of what is happening in the street, to take a proper look at the issue of prevention – obliging prevention. It's kind of important. The work done in the schools, which the questioner raises, is incredibly important. The school is an important venue for young boys and young girls dealing with this problem and the challenges it poses. This is primarily the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge, but must be done in cooperation with others. In the action plans we have had, in particular related to violence in close relationships, we have chosen to involve the school as an actor. I know that a resource booklet has been developed to help with primary school education, which is intended to act as a professional resource when teachers address issues related to sexual harassment and gender-related bullying. Sexual abuse and violence are also mentioned in several places in the resource booklet, and a separate chapter is entitled ‘Sexual abuse’. It is up to the individual teacher to integrate its use into their teaching. It is also the case that, in the context of the Action Plan on Gender Equality, Gender Equality 2014, a course on marginalisation, gender, body and sexuality will be developed for secondary schools. In addition, the Ministry of Children, Gender Equality and Inclusion allocates 1 million. to reform, resource centres for men, for an awareness-raising campaign aimed at young people. I also refer to the Vandepunkt action plan, for which the Ministry of Justice was responsible, which deals with violence in close relations, how many measures have been taken. Action has been taken in the framework of the prevention work aimed at new arrivals, including: information. But I think we have a little bit left, and we want to have a new round on it, especially after the last few days' debates. For the social knowledge part of Norwegian training, it shall include: facilitates knowledge-based dialogue on gender equality, as well as women and children’s rights. Then I will also allow myself to point out some of what I think is perhaps the most important thing about being able to prevent violence outside – of a preventive nature, where I am convinced that the questioner and I agree fairly – and that is to limit the donation. We have never seen in the police in Norway, and in the Ministry of Justice, a more effective measure than when the municipalities have chosen – at their own expense – to limit the donation from at 1 p.m. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 2nd@item: inlistbox Then we're talking about a happy downfall of 20-30 p.m. in many municipalities. Think how much police resources we've saved on it!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1679	Yes, we're going to succeed in bringing down the number of rapes – and we have to – it has to be a full focus, and there are many areas we need to focus on in order to cope with this zero vision. The situation we're up to now requires urgent action. So that's what we've been doing. I am very pleased with the feedback given by the Council of State, that this is an important part of the problem, because we must not forget the prevention and attitude-building work. That's because the result of this might never be seen, because there are no rapes. But that is precisely why prevention and awareness-raising are so important. The Council of State says that he wants an obsessive prevention work, and focuses on it. My question back to the Council of State is: What emphasis does the government place on this in the plans they are now making for an obliging prevention plan against rape?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1688	I just have to say that we put a lot of emphasis on it, because I think it's very much the answer to really getting it down. But as the questioner also points out, there are many ways that there will be no kiosks, because we're talking about actions that don't happen. We tried to make it visible in Trondheim, where we talked about a certain number of victims of violence that you did not get because you chose to take action in the middle of town in Trondheim, among others. a tightening of the puncture time. I believe that one of the main tools of the government when we are going to do further planning against rape is to use the police councils in the municipalities – i.e. the police and the municipality are working together – to see if there is a greater chance of setting up some measurement parameters for what prevention actually is in this field. This may include giving, transport, lighting and out-of-school activities, which have been asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1695	Thanks for the answer. No, prevention may never be a problem. But it's good that some of us aren't just involved in politics because we're going to have first-page lookups. The Council of State takes up something important in both of its responses to me in terms of the limitations of the policy of giving. The council itself says that we can limit the donation from the clock. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 2 a.m., we get a drop, but we also get a lot more police resources out there to do other things. To the acute situation we are now in, we were able to turn the last weekend. Nothing is more joyous. The question is what we can do next weekend. Is it a thought for the Council of State to introduce a little urgent action on this, too, that the next weekends before Christmas try to put in place a tipping stop at noon? 2, to use police resources on things other than alcohol?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1704	I have pointed out that this is a broad responsibility, and many actors need to be on the road to combat this. But just when it comes to emergency measures in relation to donation, I'll probably encourage the asker to take it up in his own party – especially in the Oslo Christian People's Party, which is now sitting in the City Council in Oslo, and which has the power and the ability to do so. That's what I think would be a good measure, because it's local access to narrow the hamlet clock. I have heard the Christian People's Party in many good debates. I think the Christian People's Party is very right in its prevention angle, and if there was one hope I got when the Christian People's Party chose to go into the City Council in Oslo, it was that they actually used this occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1713	‘During the summer several vicariates in the Northern Trøndelag were closed. Many of these have not got a new job, so they are the day-to-day money recipients at Nav. The budget's economic space has been reduced as a result of ICT investment. This is strongly reflected in the fact that 15–20 posts have been kept on the watch in these police districts. Why are new positions only earmarked for newly educated police, and when can those who were trained two, three and four years ago expect to get a job?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1720	Police Directorate figures show that one year after graduation, 95.5 pst. The police have been employed by the police for the last year's school of police. It's a high number. Data from the period 2006–2010 show that approximately 94 pst. students get a job within a year of leaving the Police College. I'm satisfied with that, and I don't think there are many educational institutions that can point to an equal number of students in the relevant job one year after exam. Since 2011, the Police Directorate has called for the students at the Police College to pass all examinations before being offered a position of police officer requiring police training. That too has been the subject of debate, but there I am clear. The number of students who completed the Politihøgskolan in June 2011 was 424. Of these, 362 had passed the exam on October 28, 2011, and 281 of these are in paid work in the department. We see this from extracts from the police's pay and staff system. There may be several students who are employed but have not yet obtained or signed a contract of employment and are thus not registered as an employee. According to the 2011 Police Directorate’s Disposal Letter, the police districts allocated funds for new police posts in 2011 are to shed light on them in their basic position. This does not mean, however, that the posts are earmarked only for students who graduated from the Police College in 2011. All positions may be applied for and the most qualified shall be added. The police budgets, which I have been in for a number of times, have increased significantly in recent years. They're increased by 48.8 pst. from 2005 to 2011. The allocation has been increased from 8.2 billion. NOK 12,2 billion. kr – that is a significant amount – and a further increase to the next year of 696 million is also proposed. kr. It is the individual police officer who manages his framework, but we have committed ourselves to increasing the number of staff in the police districts by 202 police year-olds in 2012. Then we're talking about the difference between the number of students who were graduated from the Police College and the number of police training that ended in the building. In the case of Nord-Trøndelag police districts in particular, the Police Directorate, in a letter dated 7 November 2011, informs that the police district does not have 15-20 posts on a continuous basis. The police district is aware that two former temporary staff, where the involvement is not prolonged, are currently in the Nav system – as the questioner asks. These have been applicants for job vacancies in the district but have not entered into competition with other experienced police officers. The government's officials, etc. are under law. in the case of employment in vacant positions in the seat of police and officers. Then I have said several times out: when we now face a situation where we have employed 100 in Oslo and Nordre Buskerud, there is a significant proportion of those who have gone out. But we need cops all over the country. I register that there are many vacancies, so my clear request is to apply for them. I'm convinced that when we're going to settle the accounts next year, we're going to have as high an employment rate as we had last year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1739	I thank you for the general answer, as the Minister of Justice explained, but I will continue to challenge the police district in the North-Trondelag. To me, the way you make statistics is a little bit incomprehensible. I'm not going to say that the statistics are wrong, but I personally know more than the two who are police trained, who have had the vicariate in the district, and who are leaving at Nav's. I also know about people who have worked for three years in a County of Länsmann, and have applied for jobs in Trondheim, among others. – where there was also a wave of rape in the summer/early autumn – which was told that the positions were ear-marked by the newly-trained. This must mean that there is a little lack of communication, at least a lack of understanding, somewhere. So I hope that the Minister of Justice can follow this up more clearly, and give clear signals that it is the most qualified person to be hired.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1744	Yes, I'll promise to, because that's important. It's an important principle, it would be very unfair if we put it away. At the same time, there's a comfort in this, because we see that when we recruit the best qualified into the right positions, people often move up, and then make room for the newly educated. So that's how we're now in a situation where we've employed a lot of the coal of the year. There are still some – I do not hide it – but there are also vacancies. So I'm optimistic about the percentage. But I'm going to promise the asker that I'm going to deal with this in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1751	Another issue that I have seen, and that has also come to my attention, is that many of these new posts are vicariates. That means that a lot of people who come out of high school get a vicariate. When the vicariate goes out, you're done without a job, or you're moving to other districts if there's a job vacancy there. In Nord-Trøndelag we are in a situation where we have few officials. We almost don't see the police in the street. We see that there are free policemen, and we see that the problem of rape has also been raised in Trondheim, a relatively large city. Then it becomes strange in my mind that there are free good, educated policemen who pick up daily pay at Nav, when you could have used them only 10 miles further south to be more visible in the districts and in Trondheim. At the same time, we see that there are large areas in the North Trøndelag where there is no police coverage. What will the Minister of Justice do to improve police coverage, so that our state does not become a haven for organized crime?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1758	There's one answer to getting more policemen in Norway, and it's educating them, and educating as many as we do. There we agree politically; we have settled at the same level – at 720. And then they have to be employed. Then I'll show you what I've said. I think that students, like some other professional groups, have to expect to go into the vicariates. But I'm glad that despite it, we have as high an employment rate as 95 pst. the year after they expire. It's important what we're doing now towards next year's budget, where we're adding money to these positions, that you have room for it. Then we'll see in the allocation letters how these are allocated out. Then I had the pleasure of being in the North Trøndelag in August and talking to the police chief up there. I also learned that another effect of training so many people is that there are many students out in the districts. As far as I'm concerned, there were a lot of people in the North Trøndelag. It made you have a lot of students there that bisto well in.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1770	‘In recent years, we have seen a marked increase in assault violence, especially in Oslo, but also in Drammen. At the same time, we know that Norway has low police coverage. In the VG on 21 April 2011, the Minister of Justice has described rape as ‘nesten-drap’. I agree. Today we have about 100 newly-trained police students who have not been employed by the police. Do the Council of State agree that if all the police students had been offered a job, more assaults could have been prevented and more rapes investigated?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1777	In order to prevent rapes, but also to investigate rapes — which are actually preventing new ones — we need police capacity, obviously. It's about all kinds of crime. That is why we have chosen, as I have explained in answer to a previous question today, to strengthen the police presence in Oslo streets, among others. last weekend, and also chose to strengthen the division of violence and morality in Oslo. I noticed that the director of the section on violence and morality said that ten new posts should be created. That's enough, because there are also questions about getting people with the experience and skills you need into such a difficult job. With regard to the recruitment of new high-school police students, Oslo's part has chosen to take on a large stake, particularly since 22 July, by employing 95 of them. There's a lot of them. I think it's at the limit of what the district can take in. When the investigation began to slow down on the 22nd of July, a lot of capacity was released for other important police work. I am convinced that the strengthening we now see in Oslo will be useful and good in all kinds of crime areas. We see that Oslo has had a good effect over the last few years, for example. in the field of exploitation, on which we have repeatedly been involved, and which is certainly also an important part of the crime scene. Then I believe that we must not just stare blindly at the number of police officers when assessing measures against rape. Most rapes take place behind closed doors, and there is a wide range of means to prevent them. I wish that the Progress Party was perhaps more on the track when it came to prevention, instead of almost turning up all the cranes and contributing to what is actually the cause of much of the violent crime, namely, quite so much excessive alcohol use.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1788	Now I'm a little uncertain as to whether the rapes that have happened were caused by alcohol, but I'm going to leave that debate. I am at least pleased that the Council of State now says that he will take this seriously and give the impression that he will take action and look at external measures. But if all of this what the Minister of Justice says had been initiated and had worked, these assaults in Oslo had not taken place. We now experience that assaults are committed in places that were thought to be safe for everyone. Just outside the king's castle, a total of five women – perhaps more too – have been assaulted and raped in the last four months. The same applies to the stairs outside the Stortinget, Norway’s National Assembly. There we see that women have been assaulted and raped. In the Drama, the worst rape of the drama story has occurred in my street, in the middle of the center. It becomes a bit tragic when you think that the Garden has actually offered to patrol the Castle Park, but has been rejected by the police. What kind of explanation does the Minister of Justice have?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1795	I'd like to remind you that if you had so many policemen, you wouldn't have had any assaults. It is a simplification of the problem we are facing, and it, in my view, contributes to a little constructive political debate. We see that where we have managed to reduce these types of phenomena, we have chosen to focus on a wide range of measures. As I've said several times, if you choose to solve this problem by just betting on one horse, I think we'll see an increased incidence. As for the issue of Garden, I saw it was up in the media. I believe there are clear limits to what kind of tasks the defence has in Norway in terms of our sovereignty, and what the police are going to do. I'm not sure that Garden would be a particularly suitable resource.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1802	The party of progress has much more action than just this one horse. I agree that the Garden has other tasks, but at the same time I see that, because the police do not have enough resources and good enough staff, parking guards are set to prevent rape. Then I believe that a trained gardener is a little better able to do so. I don't think we're going to get away from the manpower crisis. It is something that I personally and the Progress Party have addressed in the form of representative proposals on several measures and written questions, no later than the spring of 2009, which was discussed here, where concrete measures were put in place. So the question is whether the Council of State has looked into the ten concrete measures, such as: focus on career levels for police, increasing the risk for police staff, preventing more elderly people from becoming pensioners, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1809	Now we must not pretend that we have not chosen to invest and deploy police resources in Oslo in relation to the situation we have had during the past weekends. With all due respect, the chief of police went out last Friday and said to double the resources in town. It must be good if you're going to find something positive. That's what I think you're going to try sometimes in politics. Putting in more patrols from the U.S. police force, I think I'm good. There is a good interaction in the Norwegian police when they go into an emergency situation that way. That you have strengthened the research capacity as you have done, and as I explained, I also think I am good. Then the representative asks if you have your own plan for this. I heard it was talking about using those who are veterans, or who are approaching retirement age. That's what you've done in Oslo by the veteran patrol that walks in the streets, doing a great job. I think there's more potential in that. Being able to exchange civil positions – which I have had several times today – is also very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1822	«To NRK Kveldsnyt 2 November, State Secretary Terje Moland Pedersen states that the government assumes that they are approx. 130 newly trained police students who do not have a job in the police department, do not want to work in the police department. What does the government base this assumption on, and in that case what will the government do to make the police profession more attractive to them?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1829	State Secretary Moland Pedersen was probably more nuanced in his answer to the NRK than the question indicates. If there's been any misunderstanding here, I'll try to clear it up. There is no evidence that the police profession is not attractive. Police Directorate figures show that one year after graduation, there are 99,5 psts. The police have been employed by the police for the last year's school of police. So most police college students want to work in the police and get a job in the police. I'm very happy about that. So I think that Moland Pedersen's statement must have been angled towards the other 0.5 pst. who are not in the police, and who have probably got a job elsewhere. We can risk, to put it mildly, that such a large educational capacity as the Police College is today, will also have students applying for other types of work. But the fact that we have 95 pst. employment, shows that most people want to work in the police, and that most people get a job in the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1836	It seemed as if there was an excuse from the State Secretary when he said this on TV. Especially when the government has boasted that they have never trained more policemen than they do today, this was a shocking statement. And what could this be due to? Is that too bad a paycheck in the police? Are you taking in a little motivated students? Do you no longer see any future in the police? In the course of their education, do they discover that there is a poor working environment? Or is it simply so that you are not offered a job?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1841	This is a debate that I want to take all the way down, because the police profession in Norway is very attractive. We have very good applicants, we have very good students, and in my opinion we have very good trained people. So it's like this, when you look at those who apply for the high school at Police, that from a recording in 2005 of 360 students, we've had a recording in 2010 and 2011 of 720 students. We have also proposed a continuation of this in 2012. And we have a lot of qualified applicants who want to work in the police and county seats. In 2011, there were 3,389 applicants in total and 2,760 in primary school. I think that's good. I've met many of the students. They're great people, and they're very motivated. That's why it's so important for us that these guys now get into work, and that's also why I'm happy that the employment rate is as high as it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1851	I'm glad to hear the Council of State clarify that there are many motivated students, but that's why I think it's a little strange that the Secretary of State makes these statements, and especially when we're talking about calling alternatives to the police – you want to get in the "reserve police", which has ten days of course, you want to use police guards – so I think it must be more important to get those who are actually trained to take a job in the police, who have spent several years of their lives on this, and who just want to work in the police. That's why I find it shocking to hear such statements, and that can cause the motivation to get worse, especially when we also watch TV, that trained police officers today are going as sentinels and have not yet got a job in the police department. The Council of State was a little earlier about giving police authority to the guards. It is not uncommon for police authorities — or a limited police authority — to be given to the defence. Then I can refer to the border guard and the Coast Guard. So I think it's something he should also consider.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1860	The last relationship I've essentially answered, that's what's going on with the guardsmen. There are quite young boys -- several of us have been in Garden. I believe that a competence is required, which is not to be trivialised, in order to deal with a difficult situation in the Oslo night. In addition, there is a fundamental limit to how we use the Defense and Police in this society, which I thought at least the Advance Party has stood by until now. When it comes to motivation, I don't want to be in doubt about it: when Secretary of State Moland Pedersen spoke about this, I understood him there that it was about the 5 pst. who did not select the police and who chose another professional career. But 95 pst. So choose the police! We have more than enough problems and challenges internationally, in our own society and in politics if we don't also make problems on our own.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1871	‘Published on the Ministry of Agriculture and Food website on 10 May 2011, Brerk shows that 500 000 tonnes of food are being thrown at a value of around 10 billion. kr in Norway annually. ‘It’s both an ethical and moral dilemma in a world with one billion starving’, points out Breck. ForMat calculated that Norwegian grocery stores annually shed 850 tonnes of eggs that have expired. This is because EU rules indicate that the last day of egg sales is 21 days after laying. Will the Council consider requiring derogations for Norwegian eggs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1878	It is very important to reduce food waste and work to ensure that as much as possible of the food produced actually ends up as food. Throwing food contributes to climate stress and reinforces the need for increased food production in a world of increasing population. It is estimated that global food production will almost have to double by 2050 in order to saturation a population that is expected to reach a total of 9 billion people. We also experience population growth in Norway. The population of Norway is expected to increase by one million by 2030. Food security is fundamental in all societies. In order to help make food enough and safe for everyone, in the years to come, we need to think globally and act nationally. Food production from land and sea based on our national resources is a foundation for food security. We must take care of as much of the cultivated and cultivated soil as possible. Only 3 pst. of the area of Norway is cultivated land, and our self-sufficiency of agricultural products is about 50 pst., calculated on a calorie-based basis. So we can't afford to build up or grow up again at the rate and scale that is now happening. Strong soil protection and a policy that makes optimum use of agricultural land are important. To meet the challenges of securing enough food for a growing population, we also need to reduce the amount of food lost after it has been produced. Huge quantities of food are lost both at the production and marketing stages and at the consumer's kitchen. The ForMat project has brought together all the main actors in the food value chain, from industry to commerce, to join forces to prevent food waste. That's very good. Food that is not sold within the shelf life is one of many contributions to food that is discarded. The durability labelling of food has a food safety dimension and a quality dimension. Food safety must be at the bottom of all food placing on the market in Norway. Manufacturers are responsible for ensuring that food is safe and that the products are properly labelled. In most areas, it is the manufacturers who set the shelf-life on the basis of specific criteria and marks with a shelf-life date. In particular, because of my calls on the industry to introduce measures to reduce food waste, parts of the industry have now changed their durability labelling procedures. Among other things, Tine and Gilde have changed the labelling of some of their products from ‘last day of consumption’ to ‘best before’. In the case of eggs, the EEA harmonised food hygiene legislation lays down a requirement for eggs to be delivered to the consumer within 21 days of laying. This requirement includes, inter alia: professionally justified in ensuring food safety in countries where salmonella infections in laying hens are a problem. Norway, like Sweden and Finland, has a very good status in terms of salmonella infections in animal production in an international context. Salmonella is very rarely detected in Norwegian, Swedish and Finnish egg producers. Therefore, there are, in a professional sense, arguments that Norwegian eggs can be stored longer without posing a health risk. In the past, Norwegian and Nordic initiatives towards the EU have been taken to investigate the possibility of extending the sale period for eggs. These initiatives did not take place. Food safety is a good thing in terms of strict food safety legislation, although we have technical arguments for relaxations in terms of marking the last day of sale for Norwegian-produced eggs. Since the provisions on the last day of sales of eggs for human consumption are linked to the EEA Agreement, we are obliged to comply with them in Norwegian legislation. I would also like to stress that the Ministry of Health and Health is responsible for the food safety requirement that eggs should be delivered to the consumer no later than 21 days after laying.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1901	I thank you for your answer. I register that the minister has now given up, because they say they have tried, but have not got anything. I also record that the government Stoltenberg and the food minister have no problems with vetoing and among other things. working against the Postal Directive and such things. But you're not willing to do that when it comes to having something done about throwing food. State Council Breck is also very concerned about what people have in their own refrigerator, and what they do. Last year he was out with the index finger to all the consumers that you didn't have to raise the food in the fridge, but he doesn't do anything to take the big part of this, which goes on business. So once again, I ask, will the Council of State take up the fight in the government, that food also becomes important to the government, and veto it so that we are allowed to keep our shelf life on eggs?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1908	As I underlined in my first post, the EEA Agreement is clear, and the framework for this is included – it is 21 days before the last sales day. But let me stress that we're doing something all the time in this context. We have worked on the durability marking and the principles for this in terms of the manufacturers' own recommendations, we have worked on consumer attitudes, we have worked on consumer knowledge. Most consumers in Norway know that the last day of sale is not the date of destruction of eggs. We have a salmonella situation as a background here. Norwegian agricultural policy is very safe and safe compared to most other countries. This also means that we can safely use the eggs after the last date of sale. The ForMat project is partly financed by the Ministry of Agriculture, it is a cooperation between other departments, and we are actively working to improve this situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1913	I am just recording that the Council of State has also given up in this field. He has given up on the cessation of use; he has given up most of it in agriculture. Unfortunately, we see a government council resigning in its own field. I am disappointed that the Council of State will not fight to do anything about this. We're a salmonella-free country, and we should have the opportunity to do something. The industry itself is out asking for help, the council does nothing. I think it is bad signals to send out. I want to ask the Council of State about another thing. When you have overproduction of eggs, have you considered doing anything about the price? If you put down the price of eggs, the Norwegian consumer might eat more eggs, and then you might not be able to make the egg dose of several hundred tons of eggs a year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1922	The definition of giving up, I think, is different for the representative, Treldal and me. Let me also underline a fact: it is uncertain whether a last sales day change will lead to less food waste. The last day of sales can also lead to changes in the length of time the shops keep on the goods and when they are delivered there – so this solution, this prescription, as the servitude prescribes, is probably quite complicated to follow up, at least in a way that gives effect. I am concerned that we should work with knowledge, that we should work with legislation, but we have to deal with food safety requirements that override the requirements that we are presented here by the representative of Tåldal. [[A cell phone rings.]] We've been working on the case for a long time, we've been working internationally. In Norway, there is better knowledge in this area now, and that means that consumers now know very well that Norwegian eggs can be eaten after the last day of sale.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1929	Then the representative will be allowed to go back and take his cell phone out.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1936	I then thought to go over from egg to chicken. It is to the extent of natural development. The question is: ‘The agricultural industry is constantly asking for measures to improve profitability. An increase in the concession threshold for chicken production from 125 000 to 135000 would give producers improved and more efficient use of investment and greatly improved profitability. At the same time, there is a strong demand for and almost a shortage of chicken in some places in the market. Why does the Council of State not consider an increase in the concession threshold in such a situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1945	Without changing the question, the limit is 120 000 as the starting point for this discussion. Don't say that. The purpose of the regulation of Norwegian pig and poultry production through animal concession is to prevent this production from being concentrated on large industrialised units. Such developments will not be in line with the family farming structure we have as a goal for agriculture in Norway. The livestock concession regulation contributes to the spread of production on several holdings and is not an instrument for balancing the Norwegian market for pig and poultry products. In this context, I would like to point out that all farms wishing to do so can start producing pigs and poultry up to the limit of non-concessional operation, which – as mentioned above – for chicken is 120,000 birds per year. Any situation of pig or poultry losses should therefore lead, in accordance with the objective of a livestock concession, to the spread of production to new agricultural holdings and not lead to further expansion of the uses already mentioned in the concession ceiling. The loss of Norwegian goods may also be covered by an increase in the operation of agricultural holdings which do not currently benefit fully from their concessional limit. In terms of efficiency, I would also like to stress that each pig and poultry producer is free to rationalise its operations within the scope of its concession rights. I would also like to stress that if we were to consider changing the limits of concession-free operations, we had to carry out a much more thorough and comprehensive assessment than just relying on ongoing changes in the production and consumption of pig and poultry products. What then had to be a major element was an assessment of the future structure of power-feed-based animal husbandry in Norwegian agriculture. From the moments I have mentioned here, I do not find any basis for changing the limit of the concession-free operation of the chicken.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1956	I thank you for your answer. I am of course aware that you can freely streamline as much as you like on the different uses, but what is the point, as I understand those who are very busy with chicken, is the profitability of relatively large units. As in all other industrial production, it must be subject to a certain ceiling for profitability. Can I then understand the Council of State that he is actually sacrificing the profitability of significant large businesses in order to get this going on in family-run production businesses, which perhaps will not reach the profitability we are always looking for in agriculture?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1965	It is appropriate to achieve a higher level of profitability in operation, as highlighted by the fleet representative. What has been the starting point of the concession-free operating limit has been that we want to spread the activity across the whole country. However, chicken production is relatively concentrated in three areas: the East, Trundellag and southern parts of the West – one in the Jären. Chicken production is also largely regulated by agreements between suppliers and market regulators, or further processors. I perceive that even in chicken production today it is starting to be good profitability within the limits that you have there. I will never exclude changes in borders; it will be a point that one has to look forward to, and – as I said – that has to be widely assessed. But the situation is now, I don't think it's right to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1970	This is an interesting business economic discussion. I hope the Council of State can explain to me why it is so that while those who run large are given the opportunity to drive something larger and increase profitability, smaller units are prevented from starting and operating – perhaps profitable – when, as it says in my original question, the premise is that there is a market deficit.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1975	The balance of the market is an important starting point, and I fully agree with Mr Fletten's representative. What has been the situation is that there has been an imbalance to the extent that there has been a higher production potential, particularly in some districts, than the demand for which it has been based. That has been the situation up to now. So that's how it can change. It has to do with demand in society and food habits, and it has to do with what development will be like in other areas. I am concerned that we should use this option through the concession law to ensure that as much as possible share in the possibility of operating this type of production. Given that there is a reasonable level of profitability within the current framework, it is more important to allow those within the scheme who have the ability to increase capacity, rather than increase the framework, as the fleet representative underlines and suggests.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1984	‘Aker Seafoods ASA has announced a new owner model for Norway Seafoods AS. In the course of the previous restructuring, the Council of State stressed that joint ownership of land installations and jet rights and that restructuring did not impair the delivery obligations of trawls would be a condition for approval. Is this still a requirement?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e1991	I was notified of a new owner model for Norway Seafoods AS last summer, in connection with restructuring in Aker Seafoods ASA. The Ministry then assessed the new organisational model to comply with the applicable supply and industrial conditions, and it stands by. There is no new model of ownership or restructuring that is taking place now, and there is no new principle that the ministry has not already assessed. It was known that new owners could enter Norway Seafoods AS, when the question was assessed. The supply obligation and the industrial conditions are established. In the event of non-compliance, the Ministry could consider withdrawing cod trawl concessions from the ship of the shipping company. It is a clear premise that the ownership of Aker Seafoods ASA for ships, land installations and production equipment will continue even after the restructuring has been completed. Thus, the basis for the processing establishment will not be separated from ownership of the trawls, and Aker Seafoods agrees that they are responsible for processing activities and bear the risk in relation to the authorisations granted to own and operate fishing vessels if the industrial activities of Norway Seafoods cease. Thus, restructuring does not entail any reduction, closure or reduction of industrial activities and no weakening of Aker Seafood's obligations under the conditions previously imposed on the ownership of fishing vessels. On this basis, it has been assessed that the restructuring could – and may be – carried out under the applicable conditions. These questions were also thoroughly examined in my reply of 30 August 2010 to written question No. 1598, by Mr Bakke-Jensen. There has also been a thorough review of the content of supply conditions and industrial conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e2006	Here there has to be some nuances in what's the reality perception. Now the restructuring that is taking place in Aker Seafoods now has one purpose, and that is to put Norway Seafoods out for sale and find new owners. Then it is probably the case that you have planned to run away from the requirement that has been set. In 2008, the Nergård Group applied to do the same. At that time, joint ownership was required by the Ministry of Land and Radiation Rights. If this is the case, can the Nergård Group also implement a strategy to look for new owners for the agricultural industry, and with it settle down that the department will sit down and do nothing about this matter until a real change of ownership is concrete?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e2013	I think it's important to clear a little bit in both which companies we're talking about, and maybe even a little bit in terms. The representative, Bakke-Jensen, talks about «the restructuring that is taking place in Aker Seafoods». What I have at least read about is that Norway Seafoods changed its ownership. It was notified when they did the restructuring they did. What is important, and the company that is at least the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, is Aker Seafoods. They have obligations both in terms of supply, industrial conditions, processing obligations and that kind of thing. The fact that they organize their own company called Norway Seafoods, we have strictly nothing to do with it. As I say – we relate to Aker Seafoods and that they fulfill their obligations. Who's holding the filet knife, where they're employed, isn't what triggers action here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e2020	Then we have registered that there is disagreement about the perception of that matter. What's essential and the background of the turmoil here is what's called delivery obligations. The purpose paragraph of the supply obligation regulation states: ‘The purpose of this Regulation is to ensure that plants processing fish are stable raw material input from the cod trawl fleet.’ In order to inform the debate that is taking place, it may be tempting to quote some of the government's fresh fish strategy. To quote the tribute to former fisheries minister Helga Pedersen, she said when she presented the strategy on Husøy, that we must ‘avoid a short-term, one-sided and snarl bet on frozen raw materials’, which is very relevant in this debate. Pedersen went on to say: «Measurable, long-term and coordinated investment in fresh products is good for value creation, good for the environment and good for the coast.» I am tempted to ask the Council of State: are the delivery obligations and the regulations associated with the delivery obligations part of the government's fresh fish strategy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e2035	To say it like this, I have a lot of understanding for those who work at those companies that are worried. I have a great deal of understanding that the rapporteurs are concerned about this issue. But I have to deal with the legal elements and the legal basis for this. Yes, the obligations of Aker Seafoods are firm, and they are continuing, Aker is fully in agreement with that. Aker is the one who has to prove to us that they are being passed on. I can understand to some extent that it is disturbing. What makes me more concerned is the situation that the fillet industry along the coast, no matter what business it is, has not made money in the last 10–15 years. I'm really worried about that. In that picture, the fresh fish strategy was presented. No matter how we turn around and turn around, it will be brought on land frozen raw material. The challenge is how much is frozen and what needs to be delivered freshly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e2046	‘The undersigned has been informed that many men have to pay more in contributions when ex-partners who have formed a new family choose to take more education or withdraw extended maternity leave. Does the Council of State think it is right that the father of a child is hit by the choices his ex-partner makes when she has a new child with a new partner?’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e2053	Parents are obliged to support their children even when they do not live together. About half of the parents agree to contribute. Hubs will only be plugged in if they fail. When the contribution is determined by the government in such cases, the cost to the child is allocated according to the income of the parents. If the revenue changes, the contribution may be re-determined. If the income is reduced by more than 20 p.m., the income capacity shall be assessed in a concrete way and the income may be estimated. For example, it will. say that a contributor may not pay an increased contribution if it is obvious that the beneficiary could have a higher income. Child support is a field of private law and it is limited to what kind of requirement for action patterns can be imposed on individuals by public authorities. Within reasonable limits, parents must be able to make independent choices. Under the law in force, therefore, it is accepted that, after a break in life, parents can give some priority to their time. The contributor and the beneficiary can therefore work in 80 pst. position without determining income at discretion. On the other hand, when revenue is reduced in excess of 20 p.m., it is assessed whether there are particular circumstances that imply a reduction in income. This could be done, for example, by: a parent is at home with the child because of disability or illness. With effect from 1 January 2009, it is no longer considered as a reasonable reason for being without income to be at home with young children. At present, income in these cases is determined on a discretionary basis, unless there is a good reason for the reduction of income, such as: the illness of the child. This is what is current practice and is also in line with what the Stortinget has previously said. In an opinion delivered on 10 November last year, the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman states that a general exception to the determination of income on withdrawal of 80 pst. the parental pension for the purpose of determining child contributions is contrary to the Equality Act. If that opinion remains, today’s general freedom to dispose of some of its time on its own request must be reviewed without review by the authorities and, where appropriate, lapsed. I think it's a demanding question. These can be good arguments for both solutions. This is why the Department has asked the Department of Gender Equality and Discrimination to assess this issue. We are now awaiting a conclusion from there. Then we'll review afterwards this rule with an income reduction of up to 80 pst. shall remain standing or not.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e2066	I have to say that I am very disappointed with the answer and am amazed that the Lightbaking may not have joined in the last days' debate in the media on this particular matter, and that he has not intervened in the procedure for this. This actually began in 2006/2007 with St.meld. No 19 for 2006-2007. It also started with Ot.prp. No 69 for 2007-2008 – and Innst. O nr. 25 for 2008-2009 — where the government said very clearly that it is not uncommon for parents to re-establish themselves with new children, and that it is still considered common for mother or father to be at home with young children. However, a choice to be at home with new children can be seen as an internal issue for the new family unit — a choice that concerns them only. All that was in this proposition, Stortinget joined in. This has not been followed up. It should have been followed up in the order. Is it the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, the BLD, who is behind the Light Hill? I wonder if he has an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e2075	I have to ask the representative Horne to look at Stortinget's remark again, because that's not what she's saying right now. The policy has changed in line with what the Storting said. As I just explained in my answer, it is that being at home with children and getting income reduced as a result of this no longer provides the basis for getting increased contributions. But Nav has always operated on, and the code operates on, a limit of 80 pst. where it is possible to reduce its income by up to 20 pst. without resulting in discretionary decision-making. This means, for example: that it is within the scope of current legislation to require increased contributions on the basis of parental leave of 80 pst. compensation of wages and salaries. It is, of course, possible to discuss – it has been the Ombudsman’s initiative – whether there is a proper regulatory framework. I am aware of that, but the changes requested by Stortinget were implemented from 1 January 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e2080	What I have been told is that the BLD has updated the regulation, but not fulfilled the intention, which is expressed crystal clear both in St.meld. No 19 in the BLD consultation notes in February 2008 and in Ot.prp. No 69. In any case, it may appear that the department has not followed up the changes to which the Stortinge has joined. Last year I had a similar question to the Council of State. I was then told that this would be looked at by the gender equality and discrimination officer. It has now been one year, and we have been told today that it is so long waiting that it is not yet being treated. My question is, if the Council of State Lighthouses says that this is already in order, how long does he intend to let it go before it gets started?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e2087	I think it's important first to clear the facts here. The changes requested by the Stortinget have been implemented. In its observations, the size has not, nor has it been mentioned in the Ministry’s communication, proposed to change this limit of 80 pst. Of course, the Storting can do that. I am also open to make changes, because I see that some of the issues that the representative Horne points out can be perceived as unfair. Then we have to weigh it up against that there might also be reasonable reasons why someone reduces their income a little bit. Gender equality and discrimination have had a lot of things. This is also why the government is now strengthening its procedural capacity in the State budget. I hope we can get a quick handling of this matter. I'm quite open to going into a discussion about any changes, but I want to wait for what the denominator says. I think it's important to get a principle treatment there, and then I hope we get it quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e2101	This issue is postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-11-09.ana.ud2097e2116	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
