ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e117	The representatives Sonja Irene Sjøli and Laila Gustavsen, who have been on leave, have again taken their seats. Two permit applications are available: from the Workers' Party Group on the sick leave of the representative Mr Ingarill Olsen from 17 January onwards and until further notice from the Progress Party Group on the leave of the representative Mr Peter N. Myhre to participate in the journey to Nepal under the auspices of the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) from 17 January to 22 January Those applications are proposed to be examined without delay and accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Oslo, Sylvi Listhaug, currently has parental leave and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Peter N. Myhres. The following alternates are proposed to be convened during the period of leave: For Finnmark County: Willy Pedersen, from 17 January until further notice For Oslo: Mazyar Keshvari, from 17 January until 19 January – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e165	Mazyar Keshvari is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e173	The representative of Svein Harberg will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e176	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of the representatives of Frank Bakke-Jensen, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, Lars Myraune, Gunnar Gunnersen and myself in the field of motor travel.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e181	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e184	On behalf of Borghild Tenden and myself I want to present the following proposal: clarifying the situation and strengthening the rights of immigrants without having to stay in Norway to establish a debt regime under the English model The Consumer Credit Counselling Service [[CCCS]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e196	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 14 January 2011: ‘Temporary Board of the Ministry of Justice and PoliceIn the Council of State on 14 January 2011, it was decided that Knut Storberget should assume responsibility for the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Justice and Police on Wednesday 19 January. Then, until 31 March 2011, the Council of State Grete Faremo shall continue the temporary board of the Ministry of Justice and Police, in addition to the responsibility of the Ministry of Defence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e208	The President will propose that the referenced letter be annexed to the Minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e227	Norway committed 237 million in 2009. kr to Ethiopia. In total, the world's society is close to 3 billion. dollars annually to the country in aid. In 2007–08, Norway resumed the assistance dialogue with Ethiopia, with the result that from 2008 Norway has increasingly turned assistance towards state-to-state assistance, i.e. the assistance goes directly from the Norwegian authorities to the authorities of the country of destination. According to the U.D., the assistance dialogue should be both at the overall level and directly linked to the use of Norwegian money. It is difficult to see what dialogue Norwegian authorities have with Ethiopian authorities on human rights and democracy. The National Audit Office states in Document 1 for 2010–2011: ‘The JHA audit found in the project review in Ethiopia is missing in the preparation, documentation and follow-up of some projects. There was a lack of evidence for the risk assessment carried out in some projects. There were also cases of unstructured target hierarchy, which hamper the possibility of assessing the achievement of objectives in the projects. [[...]] Most anti-corruption measures are targeted at measures where there is a suspicion or where corruption has already been detected.’ Human Rights Watch came in October 2010 with the report «Development without Freedom: How Aid Underwrites Repression in Ethiopia». It was claimed that international assistance was misused by the authorities. During 15 weeks of field studies, Human Rights Watch found reason to call out a warning about the following: People perceived as oppositional or disloyal to the authorities do not have access to subsidised and aided food and fuel aid, agricultural land and loans. This is particularly serious as Ethiopia, along with North Korea, is the only country in the world where all food aid from the World Food Programme is channelled through the authorities. Aid-funded training and capacity building are used for ideological indoctrination and forced recruitment to the Government Party of the EPODF. Human Rights Watch tried to interview farmers who had not been admitted to the country's work-for-food programme. The result was that the farmers were interned and the members of the organization were expelled. More generally, those who tell us about the political repression are being punished. Human Rights Watch also suggests that government abuses aid resources to spread fear among the population. Survival depends on political loyalty to the state and to the party. And, as they conclude, Ethiopia has become a case study in contrasting aid policy. The elections in May 2010 — supported by Norwegian authorities through assistance, among others. to the Ethiopian Electoral Commission — was assessed by EU election observers as being highly problematic, among others. because the opposition received less media coverage and was subjected to violence. Observers reported extensive fraud in the performance reporting. Meles Zenawi's government got all seats in Parliament except one. The same was true of the nine regional parliaments – all seats except one. The government has tightened up on civil society, which has virtually destroyed the country's human rights organisations. There is a great deal of distance between this situation description and the Minister for Development in the 2011 budget. There is a problematic human rights situation, but the proposition seems to blame Zenawi as much on the oppressed opposition as on the country's one-sided regime. There can be no doubt that the authorities of a country are responsible for facilitating the existence of an opposition. Kjetil Tronvoll at the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights says this: Ethiopia is now reestablished as a one-party state, where a collective elite defines what is the best policy. The budget proposal also points out that the new NGO law prohibits NGOs with a certain amount of foreign funding, but it appears that the only consequence of this point is the transfer of assistance from non-governmental organisations to civil society authorities. The question is how to carry out the rights work when the rights-based organisations are so dramatically weakened. The budget proposal points out that there has been a positive development in the human rights situation in Ethiopia because in 2007 some political prisoners were released, which should never have been imprisoned. But far more important to the human rights situation is the fact that the new laws introduced in 2009–2010 actually contribute to strangling what had to be left of civil society. On the right, there is a lack of awareness about the deterioration in the human rights situation in Ethiopia that several organisations are now pointing to, and we also lack a reflection on how Norway's assistance is playing into this picture. The Human Rights Watch claims are serious and require thorough treatment. At a seminar following the presentation of the report, State Secretary Ingrid Fiskaa said that the democratic development of Ethiopia is uncertain. But it's obviously neither uncertain nor particularly democratic. This claim raises questions about how good analysis the U.D. is based on its policies and appropriations and the extent to which the political will to accept unpleasant claims is. In 2007, much of Norway’s embassy staff was thrown out of Ethiopia. In the following years, more and more Norwegian aid to Ethiopia has been channelled through state-to-state assistance, precisely the assistance that Human Rights Watch points to as particularly problematic. How can this be defended? William Easter puts in an article in New York Review of Books on November 25th last year at a central point that applies generally to aid: the aid has become more and more detached from democracy and human rights. Why is this so problematic? Former Secretary of State Vidar Helgesen, now Secretary General of IDEA, said during an MDG meeting at the UN General Assembly: ‘Democratic principles of participation, inclusion, regular free and fair elections and an independent judicial system are more likely to bring development gains than other governance systems. Democratic participation supports development in three ways: 1) elections give people the opportunity to express their interests. Governments will be held responsible through elections if they do not take account of the needs of the poor. 2) democracy requires freedom of expression and assembly, and it in turn provides the authorities with information on the needs, hopes and preferences of the poor. 3) Democratic governments are more effective in providing public goods such as education, health, job training, a clean environment and – perhaps most importantly – a legal state.’ Ethiopia and Rwanda are the two strongest examples of the marginalisation of democracy in aid. Africa’s two ‘most capable’ state leaders manipulate electoral processes and duplicate the donors. In the broader discussion on democracy development in Africa, Helgesen has expressed his concern for China's accession to Africa, simply because China is big and different and not undisputed in Africa. He is far more concerned about the example of the country that Ethiopia sets. They get a lot of international assistance, but they manipulate electoral processes and suppress the opposition. They are courted both by Western regimes and by China, and it is, of course, tempting as a model for other African countries. There are many donor countries that today choose to look through the human rights abuses of the Ethiopian authorities and the violation of democratic processes. Norway has good practice in evaluating assistance. Here, the Minister of Assistance will also be commended for his openness, perhaps especially in the evaluations of Norway’s contribution to Sri Lanka. However, Norway can, with great credibility, take initiatives towards other donor countries for a coordinated international evaluation of assistance to Ethiopia in a human rights and democracy perspective. The question is: will the government take such an initiative? Democratisation work takes time and will often face setbacks. So I have a lot of understanding that you have to be patient and take into account that not all goals are achieved right away. But in the case of Ethiopia, that's not where the problem lies. The problem lies in a Norwegian government which simply does not give priority to democracy and human rights in aid. Recently, elections were held in Burma with large international, and Norwegian, attention to the crushing of the opposition and the manipulation of the electoral process. However, the opposition received about 25 pst. of the seats of the various assemblies. In Ethiopia, the opposition received less than 1 pst. by the votes, and only one Parliamentary seat in the national Parliament and the equivalent in the nine regional parliaments. Nevertheless, the Norwegian government highlights Ethiopia as an example for follow-up. It should lead to deep reflection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e293	Let me start by giving the interpellant praise for bringing up a very important theme. Ethiopia is one of Africa’s most important countries — the second largest in the population. Ethiopia may be Africa's biggest development success at the moment, with great progress on almost all economic and social indicators. It is not an important country for Norwegian assistance, but it is the largest beneficiary in Africa, so assessing Ethiopia is important to assess the impact of assistance. This may indicate that aid works, as there is such a great economic and social progress in Ethiopia. But Ethiopia is also a country with significant democratic problems to which the inter-pellant pointed. So it's great that we get a debate on this in Stortinget. Before we go into it, let's also remember that Ethiopia is an incredibly complicated country where the two great peoples amhara and oromo make up 60 pst. by the population, but where there are many tens, or hundreds, other populations. It is a country with very large and significant political potential for ethnic strife, so it is not a country that is like Norway, initially. I think it is more natural to compare the potential for violence and conflict in Ethiopia with the potential of, for example, Ethiopia. Ivory Coast or Sudan, which are two countries currently on the balance sheet point in Africa. It is a challenge to rule a country as diverse as Ethiopia. Ethiopia has no democratic tradition. The country is better now than at any other time. Haile Selassie did not develop in Ethiopia, and his successor, the so-called Derg regime, was a communist dictatorship that has otherwise been very rarely seen in Africa. So the current head of state, Meles Zenawi, was the one who took up the fight and replaced the extremely brutal communist dictatorship in Ethiopia with something far, far better. Now let me focus first of all on the development of Ethiopia – and I might get back to the National Audit Office if the interpellant wants to – to say something significant about something. We've read the Human Rights Watch report. We've read it together with other donors, and the conclusion is that we can't base it on understanding the evolution of Ethiopia. There is a unanimous, unanimous, perception among all countries that this report does not give a reasonable picture of the situation. That's what the United States means. It means all of our neighbouring Western countries. That's what the World Bank thinks. That's what the United Nations means. We cannot base a single report when everyone else thinks otherwise. The so-called donor country group in Addis Ababa, Development Assistance Group, where Norway is included, has publicly rejected the description of reality in the report and has done so unanimously. This means that there is no basis for claiming that aid is systematically distributed according to the batch book in the rural areas of Ethiopia, and that this could happen without a single donor knowing about it. There is also no coverage to say that aid is used to discriminate and punish opponents. This does not mean that there can be no isolated episodes of such a kind. This also does not mean that there should be no close dialogue with the authorities and that they should be addressed with considerable pressure. We do that, and we will do that. But it's not a systematic pattern as presented in the Human Rights Watch report. On the other hand, I would like to welcome the report because it brings forward the necessary political focus, which we must have, and a focus on political risk in one of Africa's difficult countries. We will discuss with both the UN and the World Bank that we need to focus more on the critical elements that the report presents. So there are things that we think are critical in individual cases, but that do not represent a systematic pattern, as the Human Rights Watch believes. I will deal with this with both the United Nations and the World Bank in the first possible way in the future. I also have to say that Ethiopia is one of the world's greatest developmental successes in the last decade. Ethiopia is now in second place in the world as regards the achievement of the UN's Millennium Goals. There's a discussion in detail about every number that comes from there. But there is no doubt about the main picture, and the main picture can be seen by observation by anyone who travels to Addis Ababa. When you get to Addis Ababa, you see an extensive construction business. And everyone who travels around Ethiopia says that you can see the same thing in the countryside: this is a fast-growing country. So that's 85 million. human beings in Ethiopia, so it is not irrelevant. In 15 years, extreme poverty in Ethiopia is reduced, from 50 to 30 pst. by the population. Ethiopia is now in the process of reaching Millennium Goal 1 on halving poverty, eradicating extreme poverty and starvation by 2015. With the exception of isolated local and regional examples, many years have passed since we read about major famines in Ethiopia. Ethiopia will also reach the Millennium Development Goal 2 – 20 years of age, children’s access to primary school has increased from 32pst. to 94 pst. There is no small progress, and they are also expected to reach a number of the other thousand-year targets — either entirely or almost. This concerns the Millennium Goal on combating HIV/AIDS and malaria, on reducing child mortality, and on the environment. There is also a significant increase in the thousand-year target on the situation of women. Once again, there's some discussion about the exact decimal level, but Ethiopia has had 10 pst. economic growth, each year, in the last years. They claim that they should be able to get into 14 pst. That it is possible, I personally doubt something, because we do not know any country that has done so without it having been in a reconstruction phase after a war. But there is no discussion that we are talking about that or one of the fastest growing countries in Africa, and that or one of the fastest growing developing countries on the planet at all. So this is a formidable success that we have to also have in the background step when we evaluate Ethiopia. But it is quite right, as Mrs. Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide points out, that the political development in Ethiopia is not as joyful as economic and social development. The choice was not accepted by the EU, which she was in. The election result from the elections on 23 May 2010 was that 545 of the seats in Parliament went to the government party, and there is only one place that is not controlled by Prime Minister Meles Zenawi's government. Even for a representative of a majority government, this is something beyond what is desirable! Now the proportion voting on the government party is not public, but it is probably considerably lower than the number of representatives they have received, so that they have been premiered by an electoral system that allows the largest in each electoral district to win, but of course it is not an electoral system that promotes long-term democratic development. Also at the local elections is the same picture – a very dominant part of Meles Zenaw's government party. The expulsion of the majority of Norwegian diplomats in Ethiopia in 2007 created a critical situation between Norwegian and Ethiopian authorities. We have considered it very important to rebuild confidence, because Ethiopia plays such a central role in conflict resolution in Africa and is an important strategic ally also for Norway's allies. Ethiopia has taken a leading role in international climate negotiations and in a number of other situations that are essential for Norway and for global interests. There can be no doubt that the Prime Minister of Ethiopia, Meles Zenawi, has played a very constructive role in conflict resolution in Sudan. Ethiopia has been one of Norway’s closest partners in the conflict resolution process in Sudan. We have largely common views, and Meles Zenaw's role in a number of international forums has been very central to conflict resolution. He has great confidence both in North Sudan and in South Sudan. He has also played a central role in international climate negotiations, including: by getting Africa's acceptance for some of the positions that rich industrialized countries have held, and thus he has contributed to a dialogue that has been very, very useful. There are individual positive features of the human rights situation, which the interpellant was also involved in. One of Ethiopia’s leading opposition leaders, Birtukan Midexa, was released from prison in October. She was in many ways the symbol of the opposition movement, but either she did not herself want to take, or she has not been allowed to take, any central role after release. So she's been released, but without having any central political position. I want to add – and this is a theme that I think will also interest the Right – that in terms of the economic development of Ethiopia, we have considered it sensible to stimulate the country to invest more in the private sector. Too much of economic development can be state driven, and hence long-term economic structures in Ethiopia may be more difficult to establish. So to finish, Ethiopia is a complicated country. It is a very important country, a country with no democratic history and tradition — although the human rights situation is better than it has been in the past — but it is a country with significant and great human rights challenges that we have to address. We have a comprehensive dialogue with Ethiopia, gradually at political level. The Prime Minister has had regular meetings with Prime Minister Meles Zenawi, and I have also visited the country and I am planning new visits, already in 14 days at the Presidential meeting of the African Union in Addis Ababa. Sudan and Côte d'Ivoire will be the main focus, but it also provides an opportunity for dialogue with the Ethiopian authorities on many of the issues we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e327	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I still think that the Council of State shows enormously little willingness to address the substantive issues that the Human Rights Watch report, and to the extent that the Riksrevision, travels. The Council of State says that the report cannot be taken into account because it does not give a reasonable picture of the situation — and because everyone else believes the opposite of what the Human Rights Watch claims in the report. So I referred to Vidar Helgesen, who is now Secretary General of the International IDEA. I referred to Tronvoll at the Norwegian Centre for Human Rights. The Council of State itself referred to the fact that the EU did not accept the election result. Human Rights Watch, the Human Rights House Foundation here in Oslo, points to the same thing as the great diaspora that is now in Norway, and also in many Western countries. I believe that it is impossible to ignore the fact that there are major and serious human rights violations in Ethiopia. I also do not accept what the Council of State uses for its analysis, namely that it is far, far better now that Zenawi replaced an extremely brutal regime with something far, far better. For those who experience these human rights violations, it's obviously not a far, far better situation. And it can't be that because if anything were to be better today than it was before, we accept that it's okay even though we know that there are violations of human rights. The Council of State itself considered the importance of Ethiopia for the achievement of the Millennium Goals, in particular MDG 1 and 2. This is something that the Human Rights House Foundation pointed out in a seminar on Friday's Højres Storingsgruppe arranged on whether assistance could contribute to the development of human rights and democracy, where the Human Rights House Foundation just pointed out Ethiopia's central role here, which means that donors are turning away from taking the difficult discussions with Meles Zenawi and his government, because they know that Ethiopia is absolutely crucial to achieving the Millennium Goals. Thus, after detection of electoral fraud at local elections in 2007, Zenawi could easily lean back and wait for the boycott introduced to Ethiopia by some countries to pass after only a few weeks because he knows that Ethiopia is absolutely crucial in this context. I asked a question that I would like to have answered: Will the Norwegian authorities and the Norwegian Government take an initiative to bring together donor countries to review the human rights and democracy situation in Ethiopia, and what does Western aid contribute in this way?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e340	The answer to the last question is quite obvious: Yes, of course. That dialogue is already taking place among the embassies in Addis Ababa. When the Human Rights Watch report arrived, the various related, like-minded embassies were assembled to assess its contents. So, as I said, it was a unanimous view of all our related countries, including countries that have exactly the same burning commitment to human rights as the interpellant and I, that the main content of this report was not a believer. I'm just attending a public discussion about it. It is only documentation that can clarify who is right in practice. But the Human Right Watch report stands up to a unanimous opinion in the donor community that this was not comprehensive. It is not the Norwegian government that Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide can have counter performances against, but all of our neighbouring countries. Also countries that are led by sister parties and conservative parties, have exactly the same opinion. I choose to base it, not the other one. So it's very important that we view the Millennium Goals as human rights goals. Human rights are not just political and individual rights. There are also all the economic and social rights, such as the right to fill your stomach, the right to education for children, the right not to die of diseases that no human being needs to die of — in short, the right to all the social and economic rights is considered equivalent to the political rights, and in terms of these, Ethiopia has formidable progress. It must be respected and valued. So the question is how do we affect Ethiopia in a more democratic direction in other areas. Then I believe in a dialogue with the regime, but in recognition that Norway is, after all, a small player in Ethiopia. Norwegian aid is a decimal percentage of aid to Ethiopia. As I said, Ethiopia is a huge aid recipient. It is Africa's largest beneficiary, but it is a small cooperation country for Norway. Norway alone will not be able to have a significant influence in Ethiopia, but together with EU countries and with the United States and others, we can have an influence to push this in one direction. So part of those quoted by the interpellant, as far as I could record, had not spoken about Ethiopia, but generally about democratic principles. I agree to that. It is also important to warn that at least some of those who speak from the diaspora are people who had central positions in the Derg regime. It doesn't matter who you replace. Meles Zenawi may have replaced the most brutal — at least one of the handfuls of the most brutal — regimes Africa has seen. It is one of the few countries in Africa that have had a totalitarian regime that has really massacred people at political level, at a local level that otherwise has not been common. There have probably been many authoritarian regimes in Africa, but not with similar attempts at a totalitarian regime such as the Derg regime of 1970–80 in Ethiopia. But it can't give anyone any permanent dissertation for not including human rights violations under the compensation regime he has.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e349	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising an important question. It's not the first time questions are raised about Ethiopia. The councils present a picture here and say it's basically a positive main picture. Of course, nothing is black-and-white. If you compare China today with China during the cultural revolution, there are degrees of oppression, degrees of totalitarianism in the regime. But that we are dealing with an authoritarian, non-democratic regime that wants to retain power and governance at the expense of fundamental human rights such as freedom of expression, such as freedom of the press, does not seem to be in doubt. The Council of State may, if appropriate, correct it. It's not just the Human Rights Watch report that brings out that picture. Then the basic question for us will be to grant money to go to Ethiopia: do we want Norwegian aid money to help keep this board going? So essentially, that's what's going on. Then I don't doubt that positive things happen with this money. But what's the alternative? That the option is a return to the totalitarian regime that was before is not necessarily the only option. I think the donors should be a little careful, and the historical parallel, if you like. look at what happened to Zimbabwe, how one went from being an authoritarian to a totalitarian and to completely losing all concepts of what is both custom and use, and how to handle a country, made countries like Norway far on the way – not quite, but far on the way – help to keep President Mugabe going. I think we should at least be careful not to sit on that train so long that we finally see the contours of a regime that nobody wants to have anything to do with. Unfortunately, there are signs that this regime is moving in a very wrong direction. The progress party had a small delegation to Ethiopia last year. There's not much you get in a few days in Ethiopia, but one of the impressions we got was that people can't talk freely. It's hard to say. When these embassies, to which reference is made, defend their donor exposure and oppose the Human Rights Watch report, I would say that it is not necessarily based on free access to opposition and dissidents within the country. The monitoring of aid work is very close with the government. How independent is that monitoring? The World Bank’s Ethiopian director Ken Ohashi says that unless you just do a police-like investigation, you won’t find out what the truth is, because the country is so closed, and you can’t talk freely. That is why, to the greatest extent, I would like to support what has emerged from the interpellant, the desire for broader and more independent studies than just relying on the like-minded embassies to come together and find out that the Human Rights Watch is not a believer. It's getting too simple. We'd like to ask the government to reconsider its commitment to Ethiopia. Norway is, as the Council of State has been involved, a small player, but just being inside and in position makes us take on a huge responsibility in relation to developments in Ethiopia. I think we should be very careful to do that, as the country is developing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e362	Let me start with the political superstructure. In 2005, Ethiopia was politically better than it is today. There was greater participation of the opposition in Parliament. You had a greater degree of freedom of speech. You had a greater degree of freedom of the press. In 2005, the elections did not go as Zenaw's government wished or hoped, and there was a significant degree of narrowing of the scope for all democratic expressions. It's the superstructure. The superstructure is that what we saw last May was a choice that EU electoral observers said was very problematic. It was a choice where the opposition got small and often negative media coverage. It was a choice where you were subjected to violence. And it was a choice where the observers reported extensive use of cheats. It was also a choice that did not unnaturally mean an overwhelming victory to Meles Zenaw’s government. Yet, of course, the Council of State is right when he says that Ethiopia is one of the greatest development successes when you look at the UN's Millennium Goals. It is worth noting that in the case of road construction, in the case of electrification in rural areas, and in the case of the number of new schools and clinics, Ethiopia is very well off. It's also worth noting that in terms of the economy, Ethiopia is doing well. 7 pst. Growth in 2010 is now emerging from several economists with whom The Economist has been in contact. If you add base 8 or 10 pst. economic growth in recent years, at least there is a consensus that it has been a formidable economic growth. But it's important to go behind the numbers. I had expected more from a government council from the left. There's a right-wing representative standing here and saying, look at the distribution effects! It's actually a political elite in Ethiopia that's become fantastically rich by taking a social responsibility. It's not taking a social responsibility to make yourself fundamentally rich in relation to the rest of the country. Meles Zenawis government and he himself is a ‘donor darling’. I think, unfortunately, that the Solheim Council is blinded – like a lot of others. There's good reason to ask if Ethiopia has earned five new years with Meles Zenawi and his EPRDF. The common Ethiopians are both hungry and poor, and there are considerable violations of human rights. In 1991 the Prime Minister led his Marxist guerrillas and his guerrilla warriors into the government, and he has held back power since. The country is now a so-called revolutionary democracy. I'm tempted to say, hey, it's impossible to combine. It's a country where the collective is above the individual, and with that kind of thinking you can do a lot to keep yourself by the power. Ethiopia's 85 million inhabitants are getting better when we get economic growth. There's no doubt about it. I'm one of those people who believes in economic growth, but I also think that It is very important that the distribution is significantly better than today when economic growth is now under way, that the aid side also has to be involved and play institutions better than today, and make the scope of the opposition considerably better than today. It's also worth noting from an economic point of view that Ethiopia has an export of about 1.4 billion. dollar, while neighboring Kenya, with half as many inhabitants, has an export of 5 billion. dollar. Where Ethiopia now does well financially, is, among other things, within the building tree that exists, while what we see little, is e.g. in the manufacture of goods. Let me end with corruption and anti-corruption, which is extremely important. I expect Norwegian assistance, if we are still going to agree to give us 1 pst. of Norwegian assistance to Ethiopia, is involved in institution building, that we are involved in building up an opposition, that we are involved in parliamentary control, and that we are involved in making the work of anti-corruption considerably better than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e390	Ethiopia is one of the poorest countries in the world, and developments in the country are contradictory. On the one hand, we can enjoy economic progress and improvement in school coverage, vaccine coverage and food situation. On the other hand, the authorities of the country show authoritarian traits, there is no effective fight against corruption, and the access to assistance is abused in the government party’s struggle to keep the opposition down. Both the Human Rights Watch and the Riksrevision presented critical reports on the situation in Ethiopia in October. This was something both we in the Christian People's Party and others reacted to. Let me therefore thank the Chair of the Foreign Affairs Committee for promoting this interpellation. I would also like to thank the Council of State for an answer that highlighted many important and difficult questions. This shows that there is a dilemma that still needs to be worked on. Assistance to Ethiopia is of humanitarian importance. It's solid. The aid to Ethiopia has a fear of life and a better ability to deal with sulphur disasters. It also stands firm. But the devices of the assistance and the use of it by the authorities are absolutely questionable sizes. Assistance must enable human rights to be respected and democracy to be built up. If we are to help the most deferred human beings in some of the world's poorest or most conflicted countries, we must live with the fact that reality is often both contradictory and demanding. I think such recognition is important, and it has to hire us to be humble to the complexity of the challenges, but it doesn't have to hire us to be similar or less solidarity. From the Christian People's Party's side, we have noted Ethiopia's strong economic growth over the past five years. In three of these years the growth was over 10 pst. The number that lives for less than one dollar a day has fallen significantly, according to the authorities, from 44 pst. in 2000 and to 33 pst. in 2007. Despite the fact that speaking is accurate, Ethiopia actually has a chance to meet the first of the UN's Millennium Goals, to halve the number of poor children by 2015. It's uplifting. But the darker side of the medal is that the government party has developed an increasingly authoritarian regime. After the contested elections in 2005, around 200 opposition killings became a major attack on demonstrators. Norway has also got the brand regime's hard side. In 2006 two Norwegian diplomats were expelled from our embassy in Ethiopia. It is unacceptable that authorities resort to abuse of power in the allocation of emergency aid. Of course, it's an effective pressurizing tool to hijack votes in elections. Human Rights Watch reports of widespread abuse of power in the distribution of aid by authorities: people who are loyal to the government party are rewarded, while political opponents are punished or not given food and agricultural resources such as fertilizers, seeds, microcredit, work and training facilities. It will be discussed whether this is a systematic and centrally managed abuse of power or a series of isolated episodes of unsimplified local authorities. But we know that in 2009, the regime passed a new law that prohibits non-governmental organisations working with human rights, good governance and conflict resolution, if they accept more than 10 pst. by means of financing from foreign sources. Unfortunately, there is an indicator that the criticism has a lot to do with it. There are at least two dilemmas facing the giver countries. First of all, the humanitarian dilemma: we have a moral duty to help millions of people who struggle for life, and to lift large groups of people out of poverty by promoting the country's economic development. However, those who express harsh criticism may be at risk of countermeasures that limit the possibility of helping innocent victims. Secondly, the major political dilemma: Ethiopia is an important strategic ally in the fight against Islamist, militant groups on the Horn of Africa, for example. in Somalia. Putting relations at stake with the authorities of Ethiopia may weaken the possibilities of happiness in that struggle. Such dilemmas require wisdom, not light solutions. We don't need to decorate the reality image for tactical reasons. But we may have to change the assistance and choose other channels to get the job done. We must dare to go into the criticism that comes here, but we must not stop showing solidarity. It would be to fail fellow humans who are in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e413	The Council of State can very well and easily distance itself from and trivialize the report of the Human Rights Watch. But what I was amazed at was that they passed the National Audit Office's notes on the matter easily to those degrees. In fact, the National Audit Office is concerned that assistance has been provided to Ethiopia with significant evidence gaps, that there are unclear targets, and the fundamental theme of the report of the National Audit Office is to throw good money after bad, or we should say good tax money after bad regimes. It is true that in some areas Ethiopia has shown progress, especially in the economic sphere, but in other areas it has shown a decline. Therefore, the idea might be that they have just developed their economy by building up the barriers to trade – in the past, Ethiopian meat exports have met Norwegian quota restrictions. So we have more to do to contribute to it in terms of positive development Ethiopia is inside the economy. There we can do more. The advantage of reducing barriers to trade, as an alternative to supporting states in a state-to-state aid, is that they reward producers and that the money ultimately benefits them, such as: has produced meat. But I see that the Council of State is in a hurry for the way we support and support the regime in Ethiopia. As I said, it is not just Human Rights Watch that has critical references to political developments; it has also been the case with the EU. I think you have a great moral responsibility. When coercive funds from Norwegian taxpayers are managed, it should be very certain that these funds are not used in what is subsequently referred to as ‘soft power’. ‘soft power’ means regimes that achieve a political override of the will of ordinary people because they have money at their disposal, can distribute money and privileges, while ‘hard power’ is the old oppressive way, imprisonment and persecution. The last is also a tool that the Ethiopian government actually still has in the toolbox. But what worries me is that Norwegian aid helps to equip a repressive regime with Norwegian taxpayers' money as part of a privilege and a reward boost, just to distance themselves from political and democratic flows in their own country. I was also a little surprised that the Council of State went very far in giving a political health certificate to Ethiopia. I believe that it is not the world’s worst country, nor is it considered as autocracy. But the unobstructed feeling that this is a great country that is in the midst of a similar good political development amazed me greatly. The discouraging thing about the answer we have received so far from the Council of State on the question from the interpellant is that if you're going to take some initiative, if you're going to do something, you obviously don't have it. So we get to get back to the reality description. We must follow developments in Ethiopia closely, and we must also follow very closely how the Council of State manages the Norwegian development budget. What my party is concerned about is that Norwegian taxpayers' funds should agree to support regimes in positive development. It's about economic development, but it's also about being able to build a legal state, and ignoring or building up mechanisms that seem arbitrary. Of course, we do not measure these countries against ideal Western European standards, but a basic condition is that countries are moving in the right direction in terms of economics and policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e428	I would first like to take the opportunity to thank you for the debate. However, I must record with some amazement that no one from the government parties has wanted to participate in a debate on such a major and important theme as how Norwegian aid contributes, or may not contribute, to underpin democracy and human rights in an important country. Every day, between 15 and 20 million people need food aid in Ethiopia. They have no other way to get food. When we then know that Ethiopia, along with North Korea, are the only two countries in the world where all the help from the World Food Programme is channelled directly through the authorities, it tells us something about a situation that opens up a great deal of abuse and dissatisfaction, where aid and aid can be used politically to suppress the opposition, suppressing those who are not part of the regime's thinking. It is a paradox that a government in a parliamentary democracy prioritises 237 million. kr of their taxpayers’ money to support a director of government who actively, systematically and long-termly opposes democracy and democratic development in his own country. The Foreign Affairs Committee gathered on comments on the development message when it arrived in 2009 because they felt that the message itself did not give enough attention to the importance of political opposition, free elections and not least functioning parliaments. The Committee then wanted it to be a consequence of Norwegian development policy placing the crucial emphasis on the need for democratic development, since it is only a democratic system that can ensure that the authorities of a country are effectively placed in charge of the policy they are pursuing. The Committee said: ‘On the Norwegian side, it should be a premise for assistance that Parliament in the recipient country is involved in the political debate on the country’s development objectives, the priority of means of assistance and control of the country’s government.’ It is practically impossible in a country where the opposition has one of the seats in Parliament, where the opposition has one of the seats in the nine regional parliaments. For me, it is incomprehensible that the government can back up under such a regime. The Council of State says that it is a ‘challenge to rule’. But does it legitimize a one-party state? Yes, it's challenging to rule, it's challenging to rule in every country. But does it legitimise that Norwegian funds should be used to support a single party state? For 20 years, Meles Zenawi has received heads of state in his office. Everyone who has gone out of there has had a feeling that this time he has understood that, now he has realized that human rights matter, and we're going to focus on that. But no improvement has been made in the 20 years of government leaders have visited Meles Zenawi's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e444	I think Ropstad had a very good input to the debate when he said that there is a debate that requires humility. That humility has been largely in the debate, because almost all speakers have managed to bring up the dilemmas in Ethiopia. So this is not a country that Ine M. Eriksen Soreide now said, where nothing has happened in the last 20 years. On the contrary, a great deal of positive has happened in the last 20 years. That's why you're getting all the children education, that's why you can fill the stomachs of most Ethiopians, and that's why you get out of extreme poverty, which I guess we all think is formidable, great results. So it's an economic success. Then there is no disagreement that it is an authoritarian country, with many and significant democratic weaknesses. We're going to bring them up in continuous dialogue with the authorities – I'm going to keep it up, but it's great if the opposition agrees that we're doing it. We also deal with countries with greater influence than we do in the donor countries dialogue we have, and in all forms of political dialogue with Ethiopia. So Ethiopia, which many people have been involved in, is also an important ally in global processes, it is an important ally for Norway and the West in the fight against international terrorism, it is an important ally in order to create peace in Sudan, where they do good things, and it is an important ally in the international climate struggle, where Ethiopia has been among the most constructive African regimes to get the dialogue between North and South that we need. All of this is Ethiopia. In the last issue of The Economist, there is a ranking of the economic growth of different countries, and also an indication of how it will work in the period 2011–2015. Of course, the experts don't always think so, but The Economist believes that in the period 2011-2015 Ethiopia will have the third highest economic growth in the world. Only China and India will have higher. So it's true that the distribution policy in Ethiopia is not perfect, but there's no reason to think it's worse in Ethiopia than it is in China or India or any of the other countries. And with all due respect – I hate to have to teach citizens about this: you have to grow to have something to distribute. Ethiopia is not a country that is so rich that you can distribute anything without a thorough growth. You have to have 5-10 pst. economic growth for many years to come in order to have sufficient benefits in such a poor country. But, and that's the most interesting thing: if you look at this ranking of the ten countries in the world with the highest economic growth, it's unfortunately just two that we can count on have alternating regimes in this period, given today's situation: it's India, and it's Ghana. All the others are different variants of one Party. I think it is time for a little more reflection on the conditions of democracy in the world, and in particular on the question of how democracy can be brought into Africa, where it almost always turns out that ethnicity becomes the fundamental form of democracy, cf. what has just happened in Côte d'Ivoire, where you had a purely ethnic choice, and where the President who lost the election refuses to leave, but unfortunately there is a very good prospect of staying for a long time on the basis of great support from large ethnic groups in Côte d'Ivoire.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e460	So the debate is on case No. 1 over. Before Stortinget goes to case No. 2, the President will note that the called alternate of the Finnmark County, Willy Pedersen, has now taken its seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e478	The government’s climate work is based on Norway’s commitments under the Kyoto Agreement and the climate agreement adopted in the Stortinget in January 2008. These mean that greenhouse gas emissions in Norway will be reduced by between 15 and 17 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020 – two thirds to be taken in Norway – and Norway to be climate neutral by 2030. There is currently no binding Norwegian climate strategy or climate action plan. Less than one year ago, the National Audit Office reviewed efforts to ensure the achievement of the objectives of climate policy and concluded that there is a ‘significant risk that the objective of reducing national greenhouse gas emissions by 2020 will not be achieved’. This is a preliminary tough verdict. The National Audit Office further notes that there are major weaknesses in how the various departments discharge their sectoral responsibilities. The Departments of the Sector have: ‘to a small or no extent operationalised climate objectives through work objectives and the concreteisation of the use of instruments’ or ‘control signals on climate targets for underlying agencies’. Further: ‘The study shows that many targets that can contribute to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions are not being achieved. [[...]] This contributes, in the opinion of the National Audit Office, to the difficulty of achieving the national climate objectives.’.» Furthermore, the Riksrevision highlights: ‘The study shows that the Ministry of the Environment faces significant challenges in the exercise of its responsibilities towards the other departments in the field of climate change in the form of strong sectoral interests and professional disagreement between departments.’ It also states: ‘The Court of Auditors considers it appropriate to ask questions as to whether the Ministry of the Environment has been a clear enough driver towards sectoral ministries.’ The critical comments of the National Audit Office on the achievement of the objectives of climate policy are serious. Minister for the Environment, Erik Solheim, has recently also expressed public disapproval of available instruments for the management of Norwegian climate policy, among others. at the Conference of the Partner Forum last autumn, where Solheim said that, as Minister for the Environment, he practically has no control over any instruments, that he has no overall authority, and that he is in constant daily struggle with the other departments. We recognize the Riksrevision's assessments in the assessments that the Council of State itself put on the table this day. There is no secret that there is great disagreement within the red-green camp about climate policy. Three years have passed since the Christian People's Party agreed to adopt the climate agreement in Stortinget, and the government has not yet decided on how to achieve the climate goals. At a time when we need to implement effective climate action, the Minister for the Environment has launched a major investigation, Climate Change 2020. We are still waiting for the ‘cold table’, which stands there, to be a cold table of which the government chooses to supply. We were waiting for this in 2009, and we are waiting for a climate announcement during this year. The only thing we know for sure is that climate action doesn't get cheaper the longer a waiter. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly, both alone and together with the rest of the opposition, made proposals for climate action in the Stortinget. Last April, the Christian People's Party, the Right and the Left promoted a proposal for a representative on the rapid implementation of the socio-economically profitable climate action proposed in the Climate Action Programme. The proposal was an invitation from these three parties to start work on climate action. But the government rejected. In March 2009, the Christian People’s Party (Christian People’s Party) promoted a proposal for a commitment of all relevant underlying agencies to follow up national climate policy objectives adopted in the Climate Change Agreement, as the Riksrevision also points out in its report. At the same time, the Christian People's Party also proposed that a national energy and climate action plan be established for the period up to 2020 based on the objectives of the climate agreement. These were proposals that could solve perhaps some of the challenges that the Minister for the Environment has. But once again the answer was no. As an environmental politician, I would like to speak to the Minister for the Environment when he regrets the lack of impact and instruments. And if there are structural or administrative obstacles to the implementation of the Grandfather's will in climate policy, yes, these need to be changed. The Council of State can be sure that he will receive the votes of the Christian People's Party if he chooses to promote matters of structural or administrative change that will carry out the will of the Storting. One of the proposals that should now be considered is the WWF’s proposal to introduce a climate law. Last year, WWF engaged the lawyer company Hjort to investigate the need for climate legislation in Norway. The investigation was presented on 18 November. The investigation also assesses the possibilities for authorities to regulate greenhouse gas emissions through existing legislation. This summary shows that there is a basis for implementing greenhouse gas reduction measures in the main emissions sectors in Norway. We have the pollution law, we have impact assessments, we have economic instruments that we can use. And regulatory decisions are powerful instruments that the Minister for the Environment can use if he wants to. However, it requires a clearly expressed political will and also the existence of an adequate economic framework. I think it is appropriate to note that we have a comprehensive regulatory framework. The question that has to be asked is whether we have the necessary implementation will. According to Hjort’s investigation, the main restriction of current legislation is Norway’s agreement to the EU Trade Directive, which restricts the exercise of powers under the pollution law in relation to the activities subject to quota. As regards the assessment of the need for a Norwegian climate law, the investigation points out that serious policy choices are required to turn management towards a more powerful climate policy. The choices relate to the balances of social costs and to the division of responsibilities between different sectors. Choices must also be made with regard to the phase-in of action and technology. The study points out that climate legislation can be an appropriate approach to pushing these road choices into place. In the United Kingdom, such climate legislation was adopted in 2008. This may be a starting point for any legislative work in Norway. The main mechanisms of British law are: Legislative setting of the climate target for 2050 and for 2020. The introduction of «carbon budgets» which are binding in relation to the maximum greenhouse gas emission limits for each five-year period up to 2050. The carbon budgets shall be adopted 12 years before the start of the five-year period, so at the end of that year the carbon budget for 2023-2027 shall be established. The Minister for Energy and the Environment is legally responsible both for the achievement of the 2050 target and for each carbon budget. Annual reporting on target achievement. Extensive procedures for setting and modifying targets and for allocating responsibilities for implementing the necessary actions. An independent Climate Change Committee, which is also central to most of these decisions, shall provide its annual assessment of progress and achievement. I have pointed out some new solutions to some of the challenges in today's system and some emphasis on today's system. But with today's majority government, it's the thoughts of the Council of State that count. So my question to the Council of State is: What administrative changes does the Council of State think are necessary in order to ensure control, control and ensure the implementation of climate policy in line with the decisions taken by the Stortinget in the past?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e548	The community is a very complicated organism, and a complicated organism does not always correspond to departmental division. So I think we're just going to admit that when it comes to how we choose to politically divide society, the last and seventh word of Gross is that "everything is related to everything," the most true thing you could say. How to divide into different departments and different governance methods is something that will never be a definitive solution. There's something that'll be up for continuous debate, and that's very useful to drive high thinking around. That is why I have allowed myself to think highly about it and how to strengthen environmental interests in the continuous debate that we want on how to organise central government in Norway. One of the grips the red-green government has taken is to merge the two fields of environment and development. It has given us a formidable international force, which has made Norway an international driver in this area, which we almost certainly could not be without it. I don't think it would have been possible to find out, for example. the forest programme, unless we had combined the efforts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Environment in this area, because you then link money and policies in a way that almost no other country can handle. So there's an example of institutional innovation in this area. It also gives us a lot of strength when we, for example. is discussing climate adaptation internationally, where this appears to be an environmental policy debate, but in reality it is a development debate, i.e. how does Bangladesh get its flood protection, or how does it create cyclone protection in Haiti? It has to be done in the field, and it is development policy. So it's an example of a new institutional grip. I want to stimulate more of such high thinking. I believe that the Ministry of the Environment has a too weak position overall in the Norwegian administration. This is not new now, on the contrary, the Ministry of the Environment has a clearly stronger position now than it has had in the past. However, we should continuously strengthen the position of the Ministry of the Environment. Once in the future, the Ministry of the Environment, in my opinion – not everyone in the government is sure to share it – should have more status, as the Ministry of Finance, as something that can intervene in the areas of other departments to ensure environmental policy. But the reality now is that what comes from the Storting is a series of proposals to reduce the power and influence of the Ministry of Environment. I do not know whether the inter-pellant has noticed this, but in the public debate, the Right and Advance Party have promoted a number of proposals that all have one consequence: that the power of the Ministry of the Environment will be reduced in Norway. So if the Ministry of the Environment today is a pigeon, or owl – I don't know – that should become an eagle, it's at least certain that if those parties come to power, it won't be a bird at all; it will be a land-based animal crawling around without an opportunity to lift itself at all, because you're the wing clipper in a series of areas, which are a little outside the debate, but I'd like to get back to if it's desirable. Regardless of the future organisation of climate and environmental policies, which, as I said, should always be the subject of public discussion, you never get away from having a social system that consists of a series of sectors, a series of sectoral interests. They will reasonably and rationally be represented regardless of the management system of a government and have to balance the different interests in a general way. That's where the government comes in. I also believe it is very healthy and right to stick to the sector principle and sector responsibility, namely that the main responsibility for environmental policy in the transport sector lies with the transport authorities, the oil and energy authorities responsible for achieving the climate objectives in this area, and the municipal minister is responsible for stimulating municipalities to tackle energy efficiency improvements, etc. So the combination of a strong and ongoing environmental protection ministry with sectoral responsibility, I think, is what will give us the greatest results in the years to come. Many examples of this can be given — transportation, energy use. Agriculture is another example. The Minister of Agriculture made an excellent climate statement for agriculture in 2009 which also illustrates how one of the sectors takes a major responsibility in its own field. The basic work we are now facing, which I cannot anticipate here, is, of course, working on the follow-up to Climate Change. It was just a grab that was taken on the basis of the climate agreement, with the support of all six parties involved in the climate agreement, to look at and figure out how to achieve the objectives we have jointly set in the climate agreement. The investigation material is available. There is a menu that shows that it is possible to achieve the climate targets. It might be a little bit more expensive than anyone thought, but it's technically possible. So we're going to go through the climate message, based on that menu, pick which dishes we want to put on the table and start eating. The Cancún meeting was a great success. It was the best thing that could be achieved within the given conditions of power in the world and given political priorities from other countries in 2010. It puts us on a path towards Durban. But neither in Durban is it very likely that we will get the comprehensive climate agreement as a large majority in this house – all of whom may, or at least all without the Advancement Party – want. Most likely we do not get that agreement either in Durban, but we can take new steps in the climate building plant in Durban. Then it is all the more important that individual countries do what is our responsibility in the meantime. The positive thing in the international climate picture is that many countries do a lot at home, although they are less willing to commit in international legislation. It is also not true, as the impression is sometimes given, that climate policy does not deliver results. On the contrary, Norway’s fifth so-called national communication to the 2010 United Nations Convention on Climate Change shows that emissions in 2010 would be between 11 and 14 million. tonnes higher in 2010 if it had not been for the instruments of climate policy. So climate policy works nationally and internationally, but I agree with the interpellant that it has to work stronger. Let me mention some of the grips that the government has already taken. We have changed the one-off charge for a vehicle, which makes it cheaper to drive climate friendly. Through the budget, we have strengthened the reward scheme for public transport. We've increased the appropriations for the railway. We've got sales orders for biofuels in place. The test centre at Mongstad is under construction. Enova has made a mass for energy efficiency improvement by significantly increased means and established Transnova to trigger measures in the transport sector. But no one claims that the sum of the instruments we have put in place so far will be enough to achieve the 2020 targets. Therefore, the climate report comes to the autumn, in order to review all the new instruments that need to be put in place. A total of 22 million emissions reduction measures were identified in the Climate Action Programme. tonnes by 2020. So here, the Storting and the Government have to make a balance. Some measures are cheap to implement, but may have drastic social consequences that we do not want, of the kind, to reduce taxes, so that a business goes bankrupt. It may be a cheap measure, but it has consequences that we do not want. Other measures may be significantly more expensive, but have much less societal implications. It is this balancing of climate objectives against other societal leaders that becomes the main task of the Storting and the government when the climate communication comes. The national audit, on which the interpellant was involved, presented a study assessing the achievement of the objectives in relation to Norway’s international climate commitments. I think they said exactly what our assessment is also, that with the current instruments we will not achieve the goal. In other words, we need to introduce new instruments. We'll do that in the context of the climate communication. The National Auditorate also pointed to what I've been up to in the high opinion, that there is a need to strengthen the Ministry of the Environment's power and influence in the various dragonfights. Let me remind you, then, that among the budget proposals we received from the opposition, there were significant proposals for reduced positions in the Ministry of the Environment and the Environment, which would, of course, reduce the power of environmental impact in the internal draft fight against other sectors. What is at least certain is that if the interpellant wants a stronger environmental protection ministry, today's government parties are the best allies to get it done. Finally, since the time runs, let me say that we have taken the challenge from the World Wilderness Fund, or WWF, which they want to call themselves, which I don't like, since it's an English abbreviation, but it now gets them to decide for themselves, which has come and said that we should introduce a climate law according to British model. We'll figure that out. This is not in line with Norwegian governance traditions. The normal practice in Norway is to adopt policies through continuous decision-making and on-going budgetary procedures. In that case, a climate law will be a new grip in an area where we do not have traditions for it. But let's figure this out. Let's see what the consequences this will have. We will then receive a wide range of treatment in both landfilling and government in connection with the climate communication. Of course, there might also be other variants that aren't so close to the British model, but once again, these possibilities we're going to roll out, so that everyone can look at them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e582	Yes, society is a complicated organism. I don't think there's any news for any of us. This complicated organism we want to be in control, and we want to control it in a climate-friendly direction. I guess that's where the Council of State has overall responsibility, and that's for the purpose I challenge him. He, who signed, is impatient beyond the changes we can make, and he has in a way also said this publicly. I'm pleased with the council's high opinion. I think it might be in its place. The Council of State is aware that the Christian People's Party is not so happy to have an Environment and Development Minister. I see the advantage on the international level, to which the Council of State refers, but at home I believe that climate and environmental policy had benefited from having a State Council of 100 p.m. base, with one focus area. The council says that he wants to stick to the sector responsibility and rather stand in a daily fight, because that is what he says. Perhaps we should assess whether the Ministry of the Environment will have an overall structure, as the Ministry of Finance has – it will only show the future. I think the Council of State is making fun of reading alternative budgets and not just drawing out the two big parties. Even though the Council of State spoke of an eagle, a wing clipping, or a lot of bureaucracy will be laid down, I think he is wise to read the budgetary positions of the opposition – the Left and Christian People’s Party – and to take along the good solutions, because I think we, as climate and environmental politicians, have a lot to gain by playing through the various proposals that are being promoted. I am pleased that the Council of State says so clearly that he wants to look at a climate law as proposed by the WWF, and that he will come to this in the climate communication. But the height of the fall in climate communication is getting very high. There's a lot to go into that message, and we've been waiting for it for a couple of years. If it does not deliver in all the areas in which it is to be delivered, when the different sectors are to have their own, it is a train that goes. The Christian People's Party shall participate in this train. We don't have to stand on the platform. But the question is who runs this train. The Christian People's Party will be in charge of Norwegian climate policy in the future because we invested in the climate agreement, and that is the challenge in all matters that are now being addressed in the climate communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e598	The Christian People's Party has a very important task in the context of climate communication, and it is – together with us, hopefully – to take care of all the social interests that will be keen to achieve the climate objectives in principle, but only with measures that may have a negative impact on precisely them. We often see it, both from business interests, from sector interests and in the public debate, that in principle yes, just not for me. It's incredibly important with someone who keeps the overall perspective clear, and it's so easy that if you do more on transportation, you can do less on industry, you can do more on oil and energy, you can do less on agriculture and vice versa. But the sum of this has to go up. The role of watchman for it is very, very central. I could not agree to make the Christian People's Party responsible for the various forms of budget cut and many proposals for the wing clipping of the Ministry of the Environment, but it is a difficult reality that if the Christian People's Party is going to enter into a political image, they must either cooperate in some sense with current government parties, who have actually demonstrated that we can increase and strengthen the influence of the Ministry of Environment, or with parties that have a series of proposals both for budget cuts and for organisational changes that all will drastically weaken the environment in Norway. I'm just pulling this out. The Christian People's Party is not in any way responsible for it, but the Christian People's Party should avoid partners who will bring the party 'out into the dark', to say it that way. There are many ways in the long term to organise the environment. You can see that in other countries too. It's a series of constellations and models. Some have environment and energy, such as Denmark. Denmark has a Minister for Climate and Energy and another Minister for the Environment. My impression is that there is a model that works well in Denmark. Some have an environment with agriculture. It depends on what are the key problems in the different countries. What I want to achieve is that, for our part, the link between the environment and development – I agree that it creates national challenges – gives us a formidable international strength because, as one of the few countries, we are able to see the common features between the environment and development, and we are able to connect the money with politics in our own programmes in a way that almost no other country can. It's because of that connection. Then other ways to think about it can be better for other countries. Finally, I very much agree with the impatience of the interpellant. There's every reason to be impatient in this area. Norway shall deliver. But we also have to impatiently push other countries to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e609	The red-green government has implemented many important and correct measures in climate policy. The starting point for the government's climate policy is the climate agreement that all parties here on the Stortinget are behind, except the Progress Party. The government's climate policy is clear in the Soria Moria Declaration. It says, among other things. that the government will: overfill the Kyoto Agreement by 10 pst. strengthen Norway’s climate targets, so that they correspond to the 40 pst cut in emissions. by 2020 in relation to 1990 levels, if it can contribute to an ambitious climate agreement whereby the large emitters assume concrete emission obligations that Norway, as part of a global and ambitious climate agreement where other developed countries also assume large commitments, assumes an emission obligation equivalent to a reduction of 100 pst. By 2030, so that we are carbon-neutral continuing the climate and forest initiative, and escalating the effort to about 3 billion. kr annually. Although we did not get a new climate agreement in Cancún, it is clear that the consensus there, as the Council of State said, was a major step in the right direction than anyone had thought in advance. There are now greater expectations that we can reach an agreement in South Africa. The Labour Party wants Norway to be a leading country in climate policy. Our role in international climate work, e.g. through the forest effort, gives us a responsibility to also implement measures here at home. The extensive review of climate action provides a good basis for us to launch more action to achieve the objectives of the climate agreement. The government is doing a good job. And as the Council of State said, Norway's fifth national communication to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change shows that emissions in 2010 would be between 11 and 14 million tonnes higher in 2010 if it were not for the instruments already in place. The CO2 tax on the socket has been very important here. It is the nature of environmental policy, and especially of climate policy, that the area covers the work of several departments. The objectives are enshrined in the Ministry of the Environment, while several of the instruments are located in other departments. The role of the Ministry of the Environment is to ensure that the other departments follow up the responsibility for climate policy in their work. That job does the Ministry of Environment very well. Then we are also as lucky as we have a prime minister who burns for the climate issue. The government, through the Ministry of the Environment and the other departments of the Departments of Trade, has demonstrated the role of the government in climate policy. Then, as the Council of State, I will mention agriculture and transport as an example. Most analyses of climate policies and instruments point to the important role that the transport sector must play in achieving our objectives. This is also evident in the context of climate change. If we do not cope with large emissions reductions in the transport sector, we must have almost zero emissions in all other sectors. I am very pleased with the government's commitment to sustainable transport solutions through Transnova. Within the transport area, the government has also introduced the one-off charge for vehicles. This has benefited the more climate friendly cars, while the storks have been replaced. We will continue this work. We have strengthened the reward system for public transport, and we have continued to strengthen the rail system. Within the transport area, municipalities and county councils also have an important role to play. The environmental package in Trondheim has, for example: given good results. Here we've seen a 10 pst. increase in the use of public transport in the last year. It is important that, as far as possible, municipalities use the tools that they can contribute to. For example, in many municipalities, the amount of money spent on drugs can be a good tool. The energy sector is also an important contributor to climate policy. A transition to renewable energy sources, especially on the base, is very important if we are to achieve our objectives. In this context, it is also very important that the concession terms for gas power are fixed – no new concessions without cleaning from day one. This is important that the parties to the climate agreement are clear even when we discuss electricity in this room. Although Norway is now continuing to invest in renewable energy, it is important to remember that international oil and gas continue to play an important role. In the future too, today’s power plants will emit large emissions of greenhouse gases. It is therefore very important to continue the development of carbon capture and storage technologies. It is also very important to develop technologies that can be used in so-called thermal power plants. It's positive that the interpellant takes up an important discussion. Now, I think it's important that we get tools in place, instead of discussing whether reorganization of administration is most appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e655	The last sentence that came from the previous speaker, about getting the instruments in place, is pretty significant. That is what characterises the whole climate agreement and the climate communication, that everything was to be investigated and that the instruments were very few. On the other hand, it's the government's challenge when they're talking as big as they do. The Minister for the Environment was concerned that the Ministry of the Environment would be smaller in Norway with the Progress Party and the Right in Government. He said that the Ministry of the Environment would be a wing-cut animal that crawled around. Yeah, well. The Progress Party – and I want to tip Right too – has had the aim of having the Ministry of the Environment as a watchdog, or watchdog, as the Council of State said, in society. The dog has no wings, nor a bird dog. That's why there's no wings to cut. That's why there's nothing to worry about. But tightening up the Ministry of the Environment's resource use will certainly be, it will be more focused. The fact that municipalities can carry out their own work does not mean that the Ministry of the Environment does not need to have very many supranational bodies. The fact that the industry itself can do its job means that we don't need a large environmental protection department doing the job for them either. An example of this is the NOx fund, where the government itself should have a very comprehensive system of NOx fees and the entire package, while the Progress Party and the Right from day one would have a NOx fund. It was the government that turned around because the government's policy doesn't work. I think the government should be happy that they didn't employ any more people in MD, but rather let the NHO system and industry do the job for them. It shows that this is the result that counts, not how many employees you have in a department. The council said in a debate in the NRC when the climate agreement was a fact that the climate agreement sets the globe on a new course. When you sit and listen to the debate today, and see what has happened in Norway since the climate agreement, you can ask yourself if he knew what course you were taking. Obviously, there's a big difference between maps and terrain. It is also worth noting that while the council here says that Cancún was a great success – he referred to it as a seven-mile step when he was on his way home from Cancún – CICERO, who is the state's knowledge-rich people in this area, said that there were small steps in the right direction. I'm listening to CICERO. We are pleased with the opportunity to have a global agreement that will ensure that the framework conditions for CO2 become the same in the world. That is why we also want that agreement to be put in place, but we are not in favour of Norway having a lot of strange restrictions on its way there. There I will also give the government credit, because even there they have actually seen the light and turned the policy around. It was in the budget debate for the 2009 budget year that SV and the representative Thorkildsen said Norway would remove free CO2 allowances and hope that other countries would do the same. Now we hear an Environment Minister saying that it is important to maintain competitiveness and not just have a policy that shifts emissions. That's what I think is a reality approach that we're going to be happy for, and that's why I'm glad that today's Environment Minister is the Environment Minister on behalf of SV – and not anyone else, because then we could actually get real SV policy back, and that would have hurt Norwegian business. I thought the government was acting like a college. After all, the policy of the Minister for the Environment should be anchored when he is in debates. The opening quote of the Interpellation indicates that this is obviously not the case, but I hope that what is presented for Stortinget is at least well anchored. Governments themselves mentioned Climate change and that it shows that it is possible technically, but perhaps a little more expensive. Well, climate change first shows that the climate agreement was significantly more expensive than what you thought, and it is technically theoretically possible, but it is not without significant risk, both in terms of technology and in terms of implementation reality. The fact that a large proportion of the Norwegian people would start to ride just because an estimate in the Klimakur that it is socio-economically profitable does not mean that people start to cycle summer as winter. On the contrary, many have had this opportunity today, but they do not take advantage of it. This does not mean that we distance ourselves from cycling to work, even though someone would like to automatically interpret it this way. It's about having realism in what we think most people will actually do just because an environmental protection minister asks them to do it. It is also important to stress that climate change does not say that it makes sense to use resources simply because they have identified that it is technically possible. Let me draw out the lightning train as an example. Thus, as a climate action, lightning trains cost between NOK 30000 and NOK 60000 per. tonnes of CO2, which we have to expect to be cut by replacing air traffic by train. NOK 30 000 to NOK 60 000 per year; tonne: that is not a good argument as climate action. One can find many arguments — good and bad — for lightning trains in other contexts, such as: as regards infrastructure and transport, but not as climate action. Climate cure also provided for CO2 cleaning of Kårstø and Mongstad. The first is exposed, the second is uncertain when realized. I hope the Council of State will take action when now Industrial Power More and Siemens show that it is possible to implement a CO2 clean-up measure elsewhere than in Mongstad, at a lower price and with greater progress. There, the Council of State could make a difference.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e700	Let me first thank the representative, Mr Hemdal, for raising an interesting debate on the government's ability to translate climate objectives into concrete results. On this issue – as the representative Hemdal had in mind – the Riksrevision has already concluded: there is no particular correlation between the willingness to promise and the ability to deliver in Norwegian climate policy. In many areas, the direction is wrong. The representative, Heimdal, asks if there are any changes in the administration that are necessary to remedy this. My answer will be that political results are still a result of political will. The lack of results is due to a lack of political will — not a failure of government. Of course, the Solheim Council will point out that there is no lack of will in his department, but it is not the will of the Ministry of the Environment that is essential in this matter; it is the government's results as a college. There is no other scale. Nevertheless, it is worth probleming, as the representative Hemdal does, the fact that most instruments of Norwegian climate policy are not located in the Ministry of Environment, despite Solheim being the responsible State Council. This is not an outstanding phenomenon in Norwegian policy. The Minister of Industry is perhaps even more wing clipping, without me bringing up the Prime Minister's wing clipping of the Council of State ten days ago. Most of the instruments of industrial policy are managed by the Minister of Finance, or by the two Ministry of Food and Agriculture. The Minister of Economic Affairs is thus held responsible for his ability to get through in the government of which he is part. It must also apply to the Minister for the Environment. At my discretion, it is a reality that climate policy is too much regarded as a separate political universe in Norwegian policy. Substantial results will be difficult to achieve without integrating climate policy into almost all other policy areas, and the government’s climate communication to the harvest will be the major test of whether this is possible. Financial policy is perhaps the area of most and most potent instruments. Transport policy will be crucial to reducing emissions from the transport sector, which currently accounts for a quarter of total emissions in Norway. Similarly, the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Municipal Affairs are at the heart of their efforts to phase out fossil energy for building heating and replace it with energy-efficient, environmentally-friendly solutions in the construction sector. Climate change 2020 well demonstrates that the challenges we face go across all sectors and are far-reaching for Norwegian society. It is therefore essential for the Council of State to be able to make its colleagues responsible for the realisation of the low-carbon society. Interpellant mentions WWF's proposal for a climate law. Britain has already passed such a law, and much indicates that the construction of Heathrow's fifth runway was stopped by just this law. It shows that such a law can be effective if it is complied with and underpinned by cross-sectoral management. On the other hand, we have examples of legislative proposals that actually legislate good intentions. There is little consistency in the absence of political will. For example, some parties have: in the case of a law which gives all professional students the right to an apprenticeship in Norwegian enterprises. However, there will be no more learning places by deciding that there will be more of them. If such a law is to function, it must be accompanied by consequences. Without consequences, it will end up as with the Party Finance Act, where a violation of the law will be accompanied by criticism in Stortinget. Criticism in Stortinget, however, does not seem to have the full impact on this government, and so far it has not had it in climate policy either. Therefore, the right considers that legalising the objectives of climate policy does not necessarily lead to better results. The law must be accompanied by political will and ability to act now. But if the government shows the will and ability to do so, we don't need the law either. Government council Erik Solheim is quite right in saying that many of the most potent instruments are in departments other than his own, but it does not deprive him of responsibility for the overall results of the government. Governments tried in various ways to suggest that a government by a different majority in its back would scale down, cut wings and change the organism of the Ministry of Environmental Protection to a completely different type of animal. Now I am neither ornithologist nor otherwise educated in this sector, but I can assure the Council of State that the objective of a more offensive climate policy is firm, and the objective of a more offensive environmental policy is determined by the Right. The fact that we want to strengthen and discharge local environmental management too does not mean that we want to weaken environmental policy as a whole in Norway. On the contrary, it means that we want to strengthen environmental policy in Norway by bringing into the local context of environmental policy much more. It will necessarily make it so that there will be fewer issues on the table of the Ministry of the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e733	Climate objectives are at the core of the Central Party's ideology, namely the administration idea. We are trained to, and have in our program, deliver the earth from us to our descendants in at least as good a condition as it was when we took it ourselves. That is why we are obliged to have an offensive policy to meet Norway's climate policy commitments, especially at home, but also as drivers in the international arena. Our credibility in international work depends on our success at home. We can and must do this. The alternative, global warming with some disastrous consequences, is not acceptable. A prerequisite for achieving the objectives is that the tools are in place, both in terms of resources, technology and management. In Norway, we are in the lucky situation that we are literally on the green side in terms of natural resources. For the Central Party, it's very central that we use these in the best possible way to do our part to bring up the production of renewable energy. Our knowledge and experience in the field should be preserved and strengthened. We have economic and competence resources to develop new renewable energy and to invest in cost-intensive but absolutely necessary technologies for the capture and storage of greenhouse gases. It is necessary to say that this government has achieved a great deal in terms of achieving our climate policy objectives. The councils have given us a good picture of it, so there is no need to repeat it. At the same time, however, I would like to say that the interpellant points to an important theme: good governance is necessary for the best possible achievement of the objectives of climate policy. The National Audit Office’s study shows that we have potential for improvement. The investigation claimed, inter alia, that: national instruments have helped to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions but not to reverse the trend of increasing emissions. The National Audit Office concluded that, in their view, there are major weaknesses in how the various departments discharge their sectoral responsibilities, and that consideration for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the sectors needs to be given higher priority. In addition to cross-sectoral instruments, sectoral responsibility is at the heart of success, as many have said. And then it's quite natural for me to point in particular two areas, among other things. St.meld. No 39 for 2008-2009, The Climate Challenges — Agriculture as part of the solution, as a good example of sectoral responsibility, as also mentioned by the Council of State. The same applies to the national transport plan and to all measures taken in the transport sector, which are also mentioned by several here. In the work on the coming climate communication, we are facing an important task. We have to drop political leaders that make us reach our climate commitments. We also need to assess the need for changed instruments. Climate change 2020 provides us with a good basis for that work. As politicians, we have been given a great responsibility, we take that into account in the work of the forthcoming Climate Change Communication, and the Central Party will be a driving force in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e748	The interpellant travels an important theme. I have also heard the Minister for the Protection of the Environment put down words in relation to instruments for the management of Norwegian climate policy. It's kind of strange because it's up to the government to organize itself, because they've just chosen this model of organization that we have today. So the sense of abstinence is to the extent self-inflicted. Today I hear a government council that boasts of the model we have. In addition, the Minister for the Environment is in a majority government, so it is at the seventh and last talk of political will, which the representative of Astrup was also involved in. Interpellant talked a lot about the national climate targets, and the Council of State itself mentioned the transport sector. For my part, I have long been surprised that an environmental protection minister from SV, who also represents the country's capital, is not more concerned with greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. These emissions are currently around approx. 29 pst. of the total emission, which is the fastest increasing. The Minister for the Environment is certainly aware of the major challenges facing the largest cities, and in the alternative budget of the Left, we have taken this on board and strengthened the railways and the collective budget by a total of 1.2 billion. kr in addition to what the red-green ones propose. We are also proposing the creation of a 150-million-dollar state budget. kr to next year, with a plan to escalate planning, investment and operation of public transport in the major cities. This is because the municipalities themselves do not have the capacity to keep track of population growth. We have a goal that traffic growth should be taken collectively. We believe that the state must step in financially, but that the responsibility for the organisation remains local. In conclusion, I would therefore like to challenge the Minister of Environmental Protection whether this is something that the government will support. Although this is not within his department, I believe that this is something an environmental protection minister must take over, and not because it is in another department.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e759	Thank you for today's interpellation debate. It is a committed State Council the Environment Committee has in Erik Solheim. He's a libertarian state councilman, who often expresses the thoughts he has in his head. But it's probably a little more humble state council we meet here in this room today, which often also when he comes to the Stortinget. Often the council has perhaps a slightly different pondus -- let me mention his oil statement, let me mention the statement on Goliath, let me mention statements on biofuels. But if I leave it, I want to challenge the Council of States specifically on two things about the work that we now have in front of us. Firstly, when will the climate announcement come, what time perspective is there on this – that is said in the autumn of 2011? Secondly, is it to understand that when the climate communication comes, a working group or a legislative committee will also be set up to look at a climate law? Is it possible to draw the opinions of the Council of State that came here earlier in the debate in such a direction? I and the Christian People's Party very much agree that it is now important that we get the instruments in place, as the representative Eirin Sund said. But the challenge is that this has been called for by the Christian People's Party and the Left since 2008, when we entered into the climate agreement. The representative points to strengthening the reward scheme. Yeah, it's great, it was in the climate deal. I can point to the biodiesel case and the fee increase there and what it did to Norwegian production. I notice that it was said here that the cleaning of gas power from day one must be fixed. But I guess it's just to point out the government's own 2006 policy in this area with regard to Mongstad; in practice, it's probably not as firm as it would have been desirable, and the Christian People's Party set the standard at our end of government in the 2000s. I believe that Knut Magnus Olsen's representative is bringing forward some of the most important thing, namely that we must succeed at home if we are to gain international credibility. That's why the Christian People's Party is promoting this interpellation. We have to succeed at home if we're going to do something out there as well. The Christian People's Party will be in and be a leading party in a country in the first place, but then we need a Council of State that is as tough on the Parliament's pulpit as he is in any debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e781	The interpellant accused me of being humble towards Stortinget. I'll take that as a compliment. In the twelve years I sat on the Storting itself, one thing I learned was that no government council came out badly of it with a little humility towards Stortinget, but there were very many who came out badly of it with the lack of humility towards Stortinget. So I'm going to continue to be a humble government council towards Stortinget. Then Astrup and several others insisted that the political will is most important. I see it as yes, the political will to accomplish something is the most important thing. Getting integration in all areas of society then comes, and then comes how to organize the tasks, at the bottom. My firm belief that political will is the most important is also the reason why I have not made major organisational changes in either the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Environment. I feel that it almost always takes enormous attention, time and energy and people's focus for a long time, and then it won't be enough time to do the job itself. It cannot, however, prevent an ongoing debate on what is the right organisation, and I intend to continue to think loudly in that debate. I think that makes sense, because it's not things that can be solved by a single person or a single constellation at a single point in time. There is something that requires an ongoing debate. Solvik-Olsen was involved in the NOx fund as an example of the offensive thinking of the Right Party and the Progressive Party in the field of climate change. I guess that's a little bit of a fit for the red-greens, because in the government that came before us, and in which the Progress Party had a lot of influence, nothing happened to the NOx fund. The Stockholm Agreement was concluded at the end of the 1990s, and when we came to government, no world thing had happened in this area, despite the fact that the Right was in government and the Advance Party was the main supporter. We came in and implemented what Solvik-Olsen claims is the long-term thinking of the Progress Party, in which case I'm proud of it, because it's more important to do it than to brag about it. We're the ones who implemented the NOx fund. It's a daunting success, and it's very great if it can also be a model for things that can be done in the CO2 field. And then, finally, about the Right Party and the Advance Party, they have a different logic in all other areas. I never hear them say about road development that you can do more with less funds. I never hear them say that if you just move enough from the Ministry of Defence to other departments, there will be more defence policy in Norway. But if we are talking about the environment, somehow there will be more environmental policies by taking funds from the Ministry of the Environment and spending them on something else, or by taking tasks from the Ministry of the Environment and putting them elsewhere. Get it! Get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get it, get I will not continue to use images far up in the bird's sphere. We can stick to the vigilance of Solvik-Olsen. If the watchbick starts from the Advance Party and the Right, it'll be a watchbick with a very big tail, which is going to lodge a whole lot. But it's going to be very small, and it's almost certainly castrated.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e808	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e822	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each Party and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. The President will also propose that there should be no change of line, and that those who would have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e829	Loan schemes through the International Monetary Fund, the IMF, are important contributions to increasing confidence in the international economy. In the wake of the financial crisis, we see that government debt has created unrest in several European countries. Good loan arrangements help countries to regain confidence in financial markets and get out of the crisis. The IMF has entered into bilateral agreements to secure short-term lending capacity. Bilateral agreements are now to be replaced by increased frameworks of the Multilateral NAB Facility, New Arrangements to Borrow. The new NAB agreement is more flexible than the old one, the loan amount is well and well-timed, and the agreement ensures a good distribution of responsibilities between countries. The new NAB agreement will strengthen the IMF’s lending capacity, for example: because the US has not concluded bilateral agreements but was waiting for the new NAB agreement to take place. It is very positive that emerging economies such as China, India, Brazil and Russia become new partner countries that join the agreement. Economic uncertainty, including: in southern Europe, it is important that the loan arrangements are trusted. Many countries are now formally ratifying the NAB Agreement, and it is important that Norway too. I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the entire Committee for contributing to a very rapid discussion in the Financial Committee. It is a unanimous committee which accedes to the agreement on the extension of the Debt facility. Norway’s contribution is increasing to 3,871 million. SDR, which is a weighted average of US dollars, Euros, UK pounds and Japanese yen, and worth about 35 billion. Norwegian Krone. The Norwegian increase is relatively slightly higher than the average for the current NAB countries, while Japan has a significantly larger increase, and the United States and Spain are increasing in line with Norway. The proportionate changes are related to economic development and reserve assets. The contribution from the new NAB Agreement replaces contributions from today's agreement, as well as the bilateral loan from Norway's Bank to the IMF. Overall, this means that the IMF's migration into Norway's Bank is increasing by less than 4.5 billion. kr. The increase will only mean increased costs for Norway if the IMF draws more than they would do with today’s agreement and if the SDR rate is lower than the alternative rate of return. Claims for the IMF are considered to be very safe. With regard to the work on allowances and voting rights, the proposal for reform of the IMF Governing Council, such as: means the redistribution of votes from developed countries to developing countries and emerging economies, with the protection of the voting weight of the poorest countries. We come back to this when the Stortinget will discuss Norwegian consent to the reform, but to me it looks like a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e844	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2164]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e862	This interpellation is an invitation to raise our eyes and discuss how to facilitate value creation that enables us to finance our welfare society in the years to come. The debate appears from time to time, at the latest this summer, when Raymond Johansen was out and demanded increased taxes to finance well-being. And we have others who think that well-being costs too much, and that the welfare community needs to be trimmed. Both of these extremes simplify the choices we face, and point more to resignation than to the power to deal with the challenges. Throughout history, Norwegian society has shown many examples of ability to change. The question, therefore, is not whether we can afford well-being, but whether we have the ability to ensure sustainable growth that enables us to create lasting well-being. There appears to be broad agreement on the main challenges facing the Norwegian economy from a 10- to 15-year perspective. Let me give you five examples. In this decade, our economic space will grow. Thereafter, revenue from oil and gas activities will decline, while expenditure on health, care for the elderly and pensions will increase sharply. At the same time as the number of people working behind each retirement pensioner falls from five, when the population's return was adopted in its time, to about two working people behind each pensioner in a few decades' time, we experience an increasing number of working-age people who are totally or partly out of the labour market. We will experience an increasingly tougher international competition that will put Norwegian businesses and jobs under pressure. It concerns both traditional activities and the knowledge industry. The consequence may be an accelerated sale of enterprises or loss of jobs in competition. We lack strong private ownership environments in Norway that can invest and contribute to national ownership. Both many jobs and the funding of our well-being society are very closely linked to oil and gas activities. It makes us vulnerable in terms of production, findings and oil prices. If production and oil prices remain high, there is little cause for concern, but otherwise the situation may change rapidly. We clearly see this vulnerability in the government's own documents. In the perspective communication presented in 2009, it emerged that everything will remain unchanged after 2040 the recovery needs of the economy. In the 2011 budget, we can read that this need for containment is already coming in immediately after 2020. It tells a lot about our vulnerability, but also about the need for sustainable growth that can secure funding for the welfare community. It is natural for a conservative party to look forward and take responsibility for tomorrow and those who come after us. Just as we have to learn from history, we have to look forward and manage the values we have, in such a way that we ensure our descendants an even better starting point than what we ourselves have. I don't want to draw any scary pictures or black-painting situations. Norway is in a unique situation. We've drawn a lot of winning weight. We have made many right and necessary strategic choices and demonstrated the ability to stand together, and we have a high level of competence in many areas. Let me give you some examples. Firstly, I believe that the construction of the Pension Fund and the rule of action that ensures that oil wealth benefits several generations shows an ability to think in the long term. The Nordic model, which creates both safety and adaptability in the Norwegian economy, has proved robust. Tripartite cooperation that contributes to the anchoring and calming of necessary reforms helps us to make the transition in due time. Fourth, we have a high level of education and world-class technology in many areas. But being rich today is no guarantee that we will be rich tomorrow. The fact that much is going well in Norway should not be a sleeping cushion in relation to making the right choices. It is our work that creates growth and thus the basis for well-being. Let me illustrate it with two examples. Some believe that we need to increase taxes in order to finance the care of the elderly. If we can increase growth in the Norwegian economy by just 0.2 pst. – increased growth of 0,2 pst. – we can finance 2,600 new hospitals. This year we're taking out 120 billion. from the Pension Fund. If we can keep a growth of 0.2 pst. higher than would otherwise have been, for 25 years, the value creation in Norway will be 120 billion. kr higher than it would otherwise be. That's equal to the entire sum that we're taking out of the Pension Fund this year. These two illustrations show that we have to bake the cake more if we're going to finance the welfare. It also shows the value of the work. Work must therefore also pay off, and investment in Norwegian enterprises must pay off. In such a perspective, it becomes a complete short cut when some play with the idea of making work and investment less profitable by increasing taxes. It will reduce the growth of the economy and thus weaken the basis for tomorrow's well-being. We have to create more, not more treasure. Just because we have a ten-year period before the major challenges really hit us, it is essential that we make the right choices. Everything is not as pink as it may sound in the parties. Because if we look at the economic growth in Norway, the latest figures show that Norway is in poor comparison with other EU and OECD countries. Looking at productivity growth, Norway is in poor position with comparable countries within the EU and the OECD. The competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises has deteriorated every year since 2005. We have strong growth in public employment and weak growth in the private sector. If we look at these developments in the context, it is not difficult to establish that we are involved in a development that is not sustainable over time. Let me just refer to the national budget, where the government writes: ‘Productivity growth, i.e. getting more back on the inputs, providing a basis for economic growth and increased well-being.’ Norway had a positive productivity trend every year from 1971 to 2006. However, since 2006, productivity has fallen every year in Norway. I want to challenge the Minister of Finance in relation to his strategy to improve competitiveness, raise growth and increase productivity, precisely because it is so central to the funding of our welfare society. Let me then point out some elements that I think are important in a strategy for sustainable growth. Firstly, we need to establish a culture where we are allowed to succeed, which promotes entrepreneurship and where we help entrepreneurs. Secondly, we must allow cities around Norway to grow and be dynamos of growth in the regions. Thirdly, we have to comply with the rule of action, not only in relation to how much money we are going to spend, but also in relation to how we are going to spend the money. It was in our time that we agreed that we would spend extra money from the Pension Fund, from oil wealth, to invest in knowledge and research. Then it's a big paradox that in the decade we've been behind us, which has been the golden years of the Norwegian economy, we see that we've lacked the ability to use the huge profits to invest in knowledge and research. There are major challenges in infrastructure. The third point of the rule of action was the need to invest in growth-promoting tax relief. Let me also highlight a fourth point that I think is important in a strategy for sustainable growth, and that is to use more of our surplus to invest in environmentally friendly technology. Just by investing in environmentally friendly technology, we can help reduce emissions and increase the competitiveness of our companies and the Norwegian economy. I also believe that in a sustainable growth strategy, it is important to address the over-administrated Norway, to ensure that we tune the public sector. We're going to have a better public sector, not necessarily more public sector. It will be important for our businesses and to ensure sustainable growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e918	It's nice to start the new year with a more general debate. I'm really for that, because this is both about what we're going to do this year, and not least about what we're going to do in the years to come. To make it clear: the government is pursuing a policy of strengthening, renewing and further developing the welfare society. The main objective is established. It is to ensure that everyone has work, and that one has the fairest possible distribution of goods and burdens. At the same time, I've spent a lot of time on, and in the future I'm going to spend a lot of time on, the whole discussion about what I call the generation contract, that's that we're going to leave to the next generation, which is more valuable than what we took over. That is why policy must be sustainable. We need to take care of nature and the environment, we need to manage oil wealth in a long-term context, and we need to ensure that we have sustainable funding for well-being. In addition, we need a strong and efficient public sector. Oil and oil resources have given us new opportunities, yet the labour force and the good of the labour force are crucial. The challenges ahead are quite familiar, I think. The outlook for the economy, as we see today, is that there will gradually be a need for significant measures to increase revenue and/or reduce expenditure on public budgets. Analysis shows that the working line is crucial to ensuring the sustainability of public welfare systems over time. Therefore, the pension reform, which began to work a few days ago, is important. Looking at participation in employment, it is higher in Norway than in most other countries, especially for women and the elderly. The workforce is well qualified, unemployment is low, and among OECD countries only Iceland and Switzerland have a higher employment rate than Norway. It's important that it's still going to be like this. Then we have to start with the basics, the basics have to be okay. And that's that we keep track of the economy and state finances. In this way, we will facilitate continued good development in the Norwegian economy. Therefore, the rule of action is important. When I meet people from business outside the country, they tell me as a finance minister that the most important thing you have to do is to make sure that the government budget is in order, that is. the state finances and the underlying state economy are in order. Then we have also seen that it is important to have good income insurance schemes, pension and social security systems that stimulate work, and a tax system that supports this. At the same time, however, adequate security must also be ensured for the individual. We need to develop the workforce so that we also have a adaptable and well-qualified workforce in the future. It requires that we invest in the labour force of the future: children and young people. Experience shows that there is no contradiction between good welfare schemes and high levels of professional participation. On the contrary, good welfare schemes stimulate high levels of employment, while high levels of employment are crucial for the same welfare systems. So the combination of low unemployment, comprehensive Community solutions, a good social security network, even distribution of income and income policy cooperation has been, and must be, a central feature of our model. It's important to have a productive and solid economy. The reform of pensions is important, as I have said. Other reforms and measures that can increase the level of the workforce in the future are becoming crucial. Because we are now entering a period of relatively small coal coming into the labour market annually, it is important that we ensure that reserves of labour are mobilised. That is why the IA Agreement is important and a reform of disability benefits is important. This is why the government has recently launched an employment strategy for people with disabilities, in which we, with the participation of user, experience and idea panels, as it is called, will try to formulate something that will be good and forward-looking. A public sample is currently working on issues related to migration and inclusion, and another sample looks at the organisation of measures aimed at so-called sheltered activities. Integrating immigrants into Norwegian society will be important to meet the demand for new tasks and to have a good workforce in the years to come. Investment in the future workforce, from kindergarten to basic and higher education, must be a high priority, not least to ensure that young people can complete secondary education. Stronger searchlights for opportunities for apprenticeships and professional experience are part of this. Research and development is another important field for promoting innovation and productivity. If one looks at the last few years as a whole, there has been a significant increase in the investment in research and development. Norway is in fact at the top of the world in this area. Public funding for R & D is higher here than in most of our neighbouring countries and with our trading partners. If you look at publicly funded research per capita, Norway ranks highest in the Nordic region and is second place in the OECD area. Industry-relevant R & D is supported through a number of schemes. Business-oriented instruments for innovation are concentrated mainly in Innovation Norway. This includes provision of funding, competence, advice, networking and profiling. But at the same time, innovation and innovation must take place primarily in the companies themselves. The public sector must be a driver and a helper, but the main job must be done in business. High investment in transport and infrastructure is an important part of ensuring future value creation. Similarly, it is to have a strong, efficient and good public sector that supports value creation, public sector innovation, business and job simplification, for example, Altin, and amendments to the audit law that form an important part of that strategy. The financial crisis has taught us how important it is to keep public finances in order. The difficulties facing many countries have also reminded us how important it is to pursue a policy in good times that enables us to meet the challenges we know from time to time. The framework for economic policy, with the rule of action for budgetary policy and saving through the State pension fund abroad as central pillars, facilitates this. A budgetary policy in line with the rule will help to stabilise the economy over time, thus keeping unemployment low and employment high. It is gratifying that so much of this room ends up in the basic idea of economic policy, in relation to the rule of action. On the government side, we attach great importance to continuing income policy cooperation with the social partners. It is important that the consideration of the competitive industry is taken into account in wage-earnings, as stated in the established front-stage model. Responsible income statement has served us well. That's the way it's going to be in the future. In that case, it is important that fiscal policy, which is dealt with by the Biggest in economic policy, builds on this in a number of areas. It will also make it easier for monetary policy to have a reasonable level of interest rate in Norway in relation to our competitors, so that we can take account of competitive business in this way as well. Our community model has worked well. Looking at the last 20 years, the growth in the value added of the mainland economy has been higher than in the United States and clearly above the growth in the euro area and in our Nordic neighbouring countries. In the international context, professional activity is high and unemployment is low. Most of the growth in our revenues can be explained by a good development in productivity, although we will also meet challenges here in the future. These developments have been supported by a high level of education, good adaptability and a good framework for economic policy. We must be proud of what we have done and of what we have done. In a number of areas, we have top-class industry and business. We're going to build on this. On a number of occasions, the government will give its view on and propose what we think is necessary to ensure value creation and well-being in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e954	It's understandable that the Council of State is using its speaking time to talk about what's going well. But I felt a little dedicated to the National Labour Party meeting, that here it was about knocking in that everything goes much better, and that everything succeeds with this government. I believe that we in Stortinget must also be able to discuss some of the major challenges we face. Let me in this follow-up limit myself to pointing to two elements. One is that while Norway builds up a large pension fund, which we agree on, we see that China buys businesses. I don't want Norway to have a strategy where the state is going to run around and buy businesses, but when we spend 120 billion. kr from the State pension fund abroad into the Norwegian economy, we also have to think about: How do we use this money? What we have seen in recent years is that an increasing proportion of this money goes to growth-creating activities, such as investment in infrastructure, in research and in growth-creating tax reliefs. The second thing I want to challenge the Minister of Finance is what I took up in my interview, namely the fact that productivity growth in Norway has fallen since 2006, and that we are poor compared with comparable countries in the OECD and the EU. Similarly, in terms of competitiveness and growth in the Norwegian economy. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance: what does he think is the reason why productivity in Norway has not grown as before, that competitiveness has deteriorated, and that growth is not as good as it is in some other comparable countries? What's the reason for this, and what's the consequence? When I ask about this, it's because I get the impression that the finance minister thinks it's going to be business as usual. If the policy has helped to influence productivity growth, competitiveness and the growth of the economy, I think it is worrying that no policy changes are being announced. Otherwise, the Right comes to the importance of taking care of the Nordic model and the tripartite cooperation, as I also said in my introduction. These are elements that we believe it is important to take care of in Norwegian society. But I think we have a significant challenge in terms of both securing investment that enables us to create growth and lay the foundations for businesses, and to pursue a policy that enables us to reverse the negative development in terms of competitiveness and growth in productivity.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e965	I think it's important in any discussion about the way forward – whether there's discussions in the Storting or in other contexts, for example. in smaller regions, counties, municipalities, etc. – that at least we cost ourselves to look at what's going well, that we're able to take the starting point of what's our strengths, and then move forward. One of the things I underlined in my article was that in many areas in Norway, things are going well, and we're going to take it further. But that doesn't mean that the finance minister or others are going to lie down on the couch and say everything is very well, this goes by itself. It is a rather dangerous strategy. What we see is that in Norway, as in many other countries, there are some very central challenges facing us. One is the demographic revolution, the major changes in population composition, which I believe we are now pursuing, among other things. through pension reform. However, it is important that, in the extension of the pension reform, there are also measures that make several older people want to stay longer in work, because we will need that labour force in the future. The second is the climate challenge, which we have had a discussion about earlier today. The third is the globalisation of the economy, and the fourth is the availability of good and well-qualified labour. One of the problems is often — I don’t like to talk about problems, but some of the policy challenges are in many ways that the daily policy is short-term. The loss and gain account for politics goes in a way from day to day, while the challenges we're talking about here are long-term and require us to actually say no, that we're opposed to some of the more short-term things. So it's also important to tell ourselves that no other generation has had as many opportunities as we have to do a good job in the future. One is the strength of the Norwegian economy. The second is that we can take with us the lessons of history. Then my main point, as it was also in the main post, is that if we are able to increase – I want to use that expression – the return of labour by a few tenths in addition to what the representative Sanner was about, increase the growth of the economy by a few tenths, we have in many ways also succeeded in having a sustainable funding of well-being. Then I agree with the representative Sanner that keeping up a good productivity growth in the Norwegian economy is very central in the future. We've had many years of good productivity growth, but that also means it's getting harder for every year that goes, in a way to make it easier. So that's probably an area that we have to work a lot on. Here, too, Sanner can trust the government, to put it that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e976	I think there's an important debate the interpellant is taking up today. The generation contract is about securing future for our children and grandchildren. We must then have a sustainable development that takes account of climate and the environment. The most important thing we can do is to keep the economy in order. We have the lowest unemployment rate in the world, and we have the highest levels of employment in the world. The main objective of this government's economic policy is work for everyone and fair distribution. The government shall facilitate the enhancement of value creation across the country within resilient frameworks that provide opportunities for future generations to meet their needs. Such development requires responsible policies focusing on nature and the environment, long-term management of national wealth, a sustainable pension system, a well-functioning business and a strong public sector. Long-term management of national wealth means, inter alia: the use of oil money must be proportionate to the rule of action. The rule of action should ensure that we do not over-exploit oil money into the economy and create pressure, and that we have money on books for future generations. We cannot spend tens of billions of dollars on tax cuts, while building up well-being. Nevertheless, the oil and our gas are only 10 to 15 pst. of national wealth. It's the workforce and our knowledge that's the largest part of national wealth. So we need to make sure that we still have the lowest unemployment rate and the highest employment rate. Then we have to strengthen the common ground, make sure that the youth does not drop out of further school. We need to work for integration and equality among immigrants, and we need to ensure that more people have their residual working capacity. We need a resilient wage trend that ensures competitively targeted sectors through continued good cooperation with the social partners. We must continue to work on public sector renewal and improvement, as we have done with altin.no and Loan Boxes, and we must ensure a simplification for businesses. We must also develop and renew industry and modernise the public sector. The most important thing is to make sure that people are at work and that we have an inclusive working life. We need to work with the social partners both to reduce sick leave and to get more groups to work. Increased accessibility, universal design and more and better Norwegian training for immigrants are elements that are actually about getting more people to work. Good quality public services are important. For me, industrial policy is also very important in terms of what we will live on in the future. We need to facilitate an innovative, knowledge-based and environmentally friendly business. I think Norway has to become an environmental policy country with a strong commitment to new, environmentally friendly technology. It is then important that we continue to invest in those areas where we have separate visions for being good, such as energy and the environment, travel, marine and maritime sectors, among others. by focusing on research and development. We must continue to facilitate research and innovation in industry and in the public sector. From 2006 to 2010, R & D funding has had an annual real growth of 4.7 pst. This must continue, so that we can develop the jobs of the future and the product of the future. Innovation in the public sector is also important, because I think it is always possible to make our services better, more efficient and perhaps in new ways. In order to meet the future, industry needs to be adaptable. We must produce high-quality goods and services, for example: by investing in design. Active use of design in business is a very important contribution to creating a more innovative business. The government will present this spring a big message on agriculture, an evaluation of the tools and a new ownership message. There are many things I could have thought of talking about in connection with food policy – I am thinking about the mineral industry and the mining industry. In Europe, we consume 26 pst. of the world's mineral resources, but we only dispose of 3 pst. self. Norway actually has large reserves that can provide Norway with opportunities for new, exciting jobs in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1002	Let me start by thanking the interpellant for raising a very important debate. Then I also want to say – so that I put that ball dead – that there is a lot of good going on in Norway. What we're discussing here are the long lines, how we're increasing economic growth. To increase economic growth, we depend on someone succeeding, and someone succeeds so much that there are added values. The market economy has proved to be the foremost weapon in combating poverty – none above, none next to it. Today we have a government that looks differently at the market economy. Some of today's state councils would for some years describe capitalism as a class system created and maintained to exploit workers. Such a view is partially suspended again. Among other things, we have a Council of States which has expressed the desire to abolish Oslo Børs, and we have a former Minister of Finance who, during the financial crisis, proclaimed the downfall of capitalism and the collapse of the market economy. The announcement of the perspective, from the same government – the introduction is a tribute to the market economy and the increased global trade – highlights the ability of the market economy to create material wealth, and points out that global trade has brought millions of people out of poverty. Furthermore, it is said that international trade has been primarily an opportunity to get more back on its own initiative and not a threat to employment and living standards. And that is really Adam Smith's own words. With such major ripples within the government in such key issues, it is natural to ask the question of whether today's government really wants to present a policy that gives the best growth conditions for market forces, or whether market forces are something scary that needs to be tamed, and perhaps at any rate challenged and overrun. If the market economy is to have the best conditions, the following elements must be in place: it must pay off to take education, it must pay off to be good, it must pay off to work, it must pay off to contribute, it must pay off to take risks, it must pay off to invest, and it must pay off to meet a market demand. It has to be short and well paid to succeed. That the rich get richer must be totally OK as long as the poor get richer too. The standard of living must increase for all, not because of public transfers, but because of the willingness to work. It is therefore our duty as politicians to create incentives and facilitate that each one has the best prerequisites for using his or her abilities and talents to satisfy the market that the government, or parts of the government, holds through the perspective announcement. We should not be known to be in the 30th place of international economic freedom surveys, nor to be in the 16th place in the European context of the same statistics. But then we have something to go after! How do we get higher on such rankings? It's not all negative. We have to give everyone the opportunity for education – we do. We need to facilitate competition – to a lesser extent. We have to measure results -- we do that less. We have to pay homage to the ones -- we do that to a little bit. We have to conduct basic research – we do. We have to give companies incentives to conduct nutrient research – to a lesser extent. We have to build public infrastructure – to some extent we do. We need to expand all forms of transport and communication – we do that to a small extent. The paradox is that the richer the state becomes, the bigger it becomes, the more public it becomes. And then I have to disagree with the interpellant, which is more concerned with the rule of action than with building the values that he himself is so busy with to be built. For me, it's actually most important to build the infrastructure that makes it possible to increase the growth by two tenths, which he's occupied with, in order to get the income, instead of being concerned with a rule of action that no one really understands, and which is really a coercion for us. What we need is growth promotion. We have to motivate through the tax bill, and then we have to restructure the public sector. Public administration creates its own tasks; it establishes its own right of existence by building up the guardian state. I myself have been working in the public sector for many years, and I know exactly how this works. Not one year did we find one single savings measure in the department I worked for, but there was always a need for more money, regardless of the situation. Each measure established by the Member State of guardianship is, in isolation, wise, but generally very unwise. In its interpellant, the interpellant assumes that all current welfare systems by definition are desired, and that the objective is only to maintain growth, so that welfare schemes continue to be financed — as underlined by the interpellant in his intervention. That, I think, is a somewhat passive approach. Yes, there will be an increasing need for welfare in the older sector and a number of other sectors, but there is in fact a possibility that welfare schemes are in themselves countering the desire for greater participation and sustainable economic growth. In any case, understanding needs to be increased in order for well-being to be actually financed. And: "There is no such thing as a free lunch."
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1025	This interpellation invites the debate of the slightly long lines and to address the slightly more general issues. I very much agree with the Minister of Finance on that. In that case, we can establish separately that Norway is on the green branch. But in the debate we're about to have, I feel a little committed to today's first interpellation, which was about Ethiopia and a lack of focus on both human rights and other issues. It underlines the change in at least one of the government parties has gone through in terms of growth, because in that interpellation, Solheim said that one must ‘have growth in order to have something to distribute’, and it seemed as if he had raised growth to be something that went above all other considerations. So there's a little bit of a ham change that's happened. As I said, Norway is on the green side in view of what we are discussing. We have a society with a well-being that few others can show, but it needs a strong back to bear good times. We will see that growth will also change the world quite fundamentally – the emerging economies have an enormous capacity to generate growth. There are some concerns in the Norwegian economy. We're pretty raw material-based, and I also think the whole platform for the Norwegian economy is becoming much more one-sided than what it's been. The commodity-based side has served us well. We are on the happy side – among others. China's growth has driven up prices of raw materials, and we're importing finished goods back. But it creates a one-sidedness that I think we should be quite aware of. Among other things, industrial employment in Norway is quite low, and the uncertainty surrounding oil and gas estimates is now quite high, which emerged among other things. in the numbers to which the interpellant referred. We can also say that high levels of professional participation are definitely a strength in the Norwegian economy, but that also means that we have taken out much more of the potential than other countries. Therefore, I believe that the inter-pellant's focus on this with productivity, knowledge and how we invest the funds becomes quite critical, and that we have not had productivity growth in the Norwegian economy after 2006, is a significant challenge that we will soon have to focus much more on. I think we can divide the period after Bondevik II into two: before and after the financial crisis. It was a huge increase in employment until the financial crisis, but after the financial crisis, I believe that we have experienced quite major distortions in the Norwegian economy. There is a significant growth in employment in the public sector and a fall in the private sector – 31 000 jobs in 2008 and 2009 as a fall in the private sector and 17 000 as growth in the public sector. It's a kind of bias that we have to take seriously. So how do we generate growth? The rule of action has been applied. I think we have to stick to it, but then we also have to stick to the contents of it. It is about investment, both infrastructure, knowledge and research. I believe that in this area of competition policy, there is considerable neglect. I believe that competition as a driving force for efficiency and for creating the good Norway of the future is strongly underestimated. The last thing I want to go forward is ownership. There we now see a significant debate within the government. Risks fly around and create expectations that property taxes are going to go away, while the Minister of Finance continues to insist that this is a tax that largely produces distributional effects. But it is obvious that the property tax discriminates against Norwegian private ownership. After all, everyone has made it visible in many ways, but I think the effect is even more damaging to the future business, because there we are facing the challenge: who is picking the winners? Who is going to create the future growth power of the Norwegian economy? There is a very strong expression of the strength of diversity. In fact, multiple private ownership is the very prerequisite for diversity in choosing future winners as well. That is why I would ask the Minister of Finance to look at that challenge again. I think we find that tax costs us a lot more than it gives short-term in the budgets. And then we might get back to other things later.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1038	I would like to begin by commending the interpellant for raising an important debate which could have been exciting, but which I do not seem to have been particularly visionary until now. Actually, I got the impression that the representative Sanner travelled this interpellation before the NHO had held his conference in the opera, that the idea was to gloat under the picture of Norway that the NHO tried to present, that we have a march out of work, and that there is a sort of crisis understanding related to Norway's future. But we all saw what happened at this conference, and how the claims were strongly refuted, not least by the Prime Minister and by the Statistical Central Bureau and others: it's on the contrary a march into working life, we have a hugely high employment share, and that's a very great potential for further development and growth in the Norwegian economy. Thus it became neither bird nor fish, I think, out of the interpellation that has been traveled. But the main question is what we're going to live on in the future. The answer to that has also been given by the representative Sanner, namely that these are people we have to live with. The labour force is the major national wealth, in fact, over 80 pst., while oil is just under 10 pst. However, what we need to have a strong focus on and concern about, as fiscal politicians and as policymakers, is that business is nevertheless very oil-dependent and vulnerable to cyclical fluctuations, and, of course, that it is going to end in the oil age, whether you like it or not. Now it's going to take a few decades, but we're going to have a debate, this year, which will be quite crucial for where we're going to be investing the big money in Norway in the future, where we're going to have our eyes fixed on Norwegian business and Norwegian economy in the future, whether it's still going to be in oil, and not least in vulnerable areas, or whether we're going to turn focus and focus on the conversion and use of the skills that we've built up in many ways through decades of good investment, I'd say, in offshore. So to the claim by the representative Sanner that Norway’s competitiveness has been weakened every year since 2005. I want to ask the question, where did the representative prove this? On the contrary, we have made progress in terms of competitiveness. For example, the most well-known index, the IMD World Competition, which ranks 55 countries according to a set of different framework conditions, shows that Norway, in total, is in a ninth place. In Europe only Sweden and Switzerland beat us, in fact. In recent years, Norway, contrary to Mr Sanner’s claim, has scratched four places on this ranking list. If we only look at how public authorities, legislation and economic policies affect the competitiveness of businesses, Norway is in seventh place and has scratched the rankings. I want to refer again to Professor Karen Helene Ulltveit-Moe, who reminds us that the competitiveness of a country is the sum of a lot of conditions, where tax is a small part of the assessment. The level of taxation in Norway, which is also part of this debate, is roughly on average in the OECD. But what is crucial here in Norway is that we offer well-functioning institutions, objective public procedures, low-bureaucratic systems, stable economic policies, highly educated labour, good conditions for conversion and large and evenly distributed purchasing power. I seem to know an undertone in the interpellation with Sanner, once again, that the public sector is a consumer of values that it has created privately. We're not entirely out of a discussion that polarizes too much, rather than see how valuable the public sector is for the competitiveness of business in the future. It was really put at the head of the representative Tybring-Gjedde's posts here, where he almost emphasizes that we should go back to "Economic Man", where the only thing to measure happiness is how much you get in the pay bag, and the opportunity to get richer. That's the only thing that makes you dare bet. But what we've seen from research is that if you put on that bile, you'll end up with much less productivity, a much worse society, much more expenditure, among other things. To combat crime, more spending of money on health expenditure, etc., because greater differences will lead, inter alia, to: has much bigger problems overall in society. It could also have been an exciting discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1051	This is an important debate on the long lines. It is an undisputed fact that oil and gas are not a renewable resource. It's just a matter of time when it's exhausted. That is why we must look forward to alternatives. One thing is to fund the welfare state. The point is to secure conditions for people – over generations and for all people – no matter what relationship they have with the world of work or whether they are not employed. We're talking about sustainable growth. It is a term that has been used in Norwegian debate for many decades. The economic growth that we had in front of the financial crisis was described as sustainable. It turned out at least that it was neither ecologically nor economically sustainable. I want to develop the Centre Party's old slogan: «Growth is not to consume more, but to manage better. ‘ That slogan has never been more true than in the time we now have. We are facing a need for international solidarity that is uniquely strong, we are facing major climate challenges and food security challenges. So it's going to be different than what it's been focused on in the past. Therefore, the growth and government in this country should invest less in the highest possible real income growth and more in higher investment for the future – or to say so in my language: one must harvest less and more. As a result, there should be greater soberness in our consumption – sparingness and not use-and-cast mentality. Leaders should be role models, and leaders should realize it. We have, as many people have been involved, a unique starting point. We have embarrassing relationships in Norway, and we have huge natural resources. I want to say that jealous relationships between people are something that we to those degrees have to depend on, which we have to cultivate, whether it's our tax policy, our integration, or how we organize working life. There must be a continuous focus on this. The centre party is a value conservative party with the will to use the necessary radical financial instruments, so that's something that has great vigilance on our part. What is, however, the main point here today is the management of natural resources. What we're facing is that we have great opportunities, through a conscious industrial policy, to create longer value chains by processing our natural resources. This applies not only to our oil and gas resources, but also to our natural resources. That's where the greatest potential is. There is therefore a need for a clearer industrial policy, which includes that in key areas it is central to Norway to have its head office in this country. It's e.g. central that we have head offices in Norway linked to our woodworking industry. If not the three-processing industry and the locomotives which have their head office in Norway, this is a loss in the opinion of the Centre Party. So we have to make sure that we can make sure of that. I agree with Mr Sanner that ownership policy and strengthening the private ownership environment are important. Then we need to find ways to combine the strengthening of private ownership, while at the same time having a personal tax: the ability principle. It's demanding, but that's what's necessary. We have to put in the financial instruments. Environmental technologies were mentioned here. It is exemplary what has happened so far, and there is more to come – I hope – in terms of investment aid to environmental technologies, so that we can commercialise new technologies in enterprises that have the capacity to implement them. That's something that the state needs to do to make it work. This is something that needs to be further developed through both business and ownership funds. We need to be pragmatic about the tools that are needed to achieve this. Finally, the representative Sanner said the cities must be allowed to grow, understanding that they cannot grow today. A lot of the business we're talking about, with the processing of natural resources based on our advantage, is all around the country. There are a lot of young people who want to make a living around the country. What's needed is no more centralization, it's more decentralization. Decentralisation will provide an opportunity to develop a business that has greater growth potential, and there are very many of the creative businesses that are located around the whole country. There must be greater vigilance in relation to what is coming. We have to be willing to see the whole country in the context. Cities have their role, but today centralisation is too strong. There is a need for a strengthening of the business world around it. That's one of our biggest challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1071	I would also like to thank the representative, Mr Sanner, who has raised this question. I don't think he had any reason to travel it, as it might sound for a moment like someone seemed – I think the representative has a genuine commitment to this very thing. Ensuring sustainable value creation, employment and well-being in the long term is, as the Minister of Finance said, a good start to the new year. If we can raise the debate from the more day-to-day perspective we have, it should be a pleasure to all of us. Five minutes is not that long, but some main points seen by the Christian People's Party – for the first time knowledge and innovation: Nordmann's work effort amounts to over 70 pst. of our national wealth. It is then obvious that the level of knowledge of individuals is also important. With such a high salary level as we have, we must be of the best in knowledge, and therefore we cannot settle for cutting mediocre OECD tests in terms of our school. Research appropriations should also rise to the average OECD level by 2015. In concrete terms, we need to have more scholarships, TaxFUNN and user-driven research to be strengthened. There has to be closer cooperation between school, research and business. Risk capital must be increased, and we also want a separate seed fund for young entrepreneurs. Secondly, the Christian People's Party will have a better tax regime, especially for family businesses. Three-quarters of Norwegian enterprises are family-owned, and we have proposed to remove the inheritance tax in case of a generation change in family farms, if this company continues to operate. This is good business policy – and a greeting to the previous speaker: it is also good district policy. Besides, I think there's actually some words about this in Soria Moria, if I'm not completely wrong. In addition, we want to remove the wealth tax on working capital, and we think it is an interesting debate that occurs among government members on this point. Interestingly, it is also interesting to see how it is always interesting to link taxes on wealth and taxes on housing. It is to me a question of proceeds, not a question of how to ensure well-being through good framework conditions for business. Thirdly, we must strengthen the infrastructure. We need to reorganise our transport companies and establish a form of government transport loan scheme, which provides more predictability and power in implementation, including through Public Private Cooperation. Fourth, we need more force in the simplification of the rules. The administrative burden on industry is, according to the NHO, as high as 10 years ago, particularly affecting small businesses. Let me just as fully commend the government for removing the auditor's obligation for small businesses. But there is still a piece left, including in the case of Altin – perhaps a simplified share law for small businesses and an assessment of whether the share capital requirement in our share law should be replaced by other forms of creditor protection. Fifthly, a responsible and inclusive labour market policy. Yes, we have many who are employed in this country, but there should have been more. It is necessary to give self-employed persons equal rights in relation to pregnancy and childbirth as employees. Senior policy needs to be put on the agenda in a new and better way. For example, a forward-looking labour market policy requires: raising the age limit of the law because employees can be retired because of their age. Sixth, a completely different cooperation between the public and voluntary sectors. There is a difference between a welfare state and a welfare society, and here this government has a very long way to go. In fact, much of the necessary cooperation between public and voluntary Norway is being dismantled. Finally, the world is facing major environmental challenges. Good incentives and climate adaptation conditions that work with industry and not against it will give our business a competitive advantage. With a greater focus on research and development of renewable energy and a shift in the tax system in the green direction, we will facilitate the business life of the future and thus also for the welfare of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1090	As others have pointed out before me, there is a very important debate between the world of travel. Although we were recently told at the NHO annual conference that ‘all will be Norway’ now, it is not certain that everyone wants it in ten or 20 years if we do not do the right things. As the interpellant points out, we are faced with a double challenge. Revenue from the petroleum industry will fall at the same time as public expenditure growth will increase. On Thursday of last week, the Oil Directorate also came with a sharp downward adjustment of Norwegian oil resources. It is therefore necessary to do some important and correct action now. In a little too many cases, however, we see that the government is pushing the problems ahead – there is a lack of commitment to innovation and research, being in the forefront of meeting climate challenges, or doing something about public sector structures. There's nothing wrong with the government's rhetoric in many of these areas. The problem is there's going to be a lot of rhetoric. As the Left sees it, it is vital that we get out of the slogan debate on either welfare or tax relief and into the challenges of reality. For the Left, individual human development and progress are crucial to our view of value creation and well-being. For the Left, therefore, there are no absolute conflicts between growth and protection, between value creation and climate responsibility, or between welfare and tax relief for that part, but rather a liberal opportunity to reconcile both parts on the basis of a human objective of progress. We want an industrial policy characterised by a forward-looking, well-functioning and responsible policy that paves the way for progress for all. If we are to achieve that, there are four areas in particular that we need to reform: We need to create a new working life that is both more flexible and more inclusive. Different roles, different employers, private and public sectors need to be changed more easily. It will increase employment and create a more sustainable business environment. We need to focus on innovation and entrepreneurship. We need to create a culture of business and provide framework conditions that stimulate value-creating entrepreneurship and a diversity of innovations. This means that we must continue to simplify the daily lives of entrepreneurs, make their everyday lives safer, red tape and simplify public support schemes and make public instruments more relevant and entrepreneurial. We must cultivate creativity, independence and curiosity through a well-functioning and forward-looking education and research system. We must succeed in creating an ever-increasing stream of new knowledge through freer and more diverse research. The objective of the left is Norway as a rate of research, where a significant share of free research is carried out, and where research is targeted in important, established fields of activity, such as: the climate and environment area. Last but not least, consideration of the environment and climate needs to be based much more on our free choice. It is possible to reconcile the consideration of freedom with environmental considerations by creating a stronger motivation for climate-friendly and environmentally friendly behaviour. The market must be actively used in the service of the environment and it must be invested in infrastructure that paves the way for climate and environmental improvements. The framework conditions for environmentally friendly operations must make greening pay off. When we reach 2020, my and Left's goal is that Norwegian business and Norwegian economy are the world's most environmentally friendly, and that new, good, green, global businesses have their origins and main activities in Norway. If we succeed in this, we also succeed in stimulating sustainable growth that ensures well-being in a long-term perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1120	Let me also thank you for the interest in this topic. It really doesn't surprise me, because the Storting has, over many decades, shown the ability to make reasonable and strategic choices and also demonstrated a capacity to stand together. In my introduction I showed both the Nordic model, its development, tripartite cooperation, the rule of action and various reforms that have shown a good ability to stand together to make the necessary choices. At the same time, I think the Minister of Finance is also right when he says that the policy in its nature is often short-sighted. There's probably also an attitude among many that it's going to be safe, because it's done in the past, and it's true, as many people say, that we're sitting on the green branch. The challenge is to make sure that we keep our position, and that we ensure that the branch remains green. I think we have to admit that international competition is going to be tougher. We have been comforting ourselves for many years that when the others get cheaper, we have to get better. Well, now the others are getting cheaper and better at the same time, and that makes us have to strengthen our competitiveness. It is the OECD that has established that our productivity growth has fallen while others have increased their productivity growth. There was an answer to the question from Inga Marte Thorkildsen. The government's own documents have also shown that cost competitiveness has been weakened for many years. It puts us in a tougher position. At the same time, we know what major challenges we will face on the financing side in 10–15 years. Then my concern is: how can we ensure that we contribute to a growth in the economy that enables us to finance well-being? Well, then we should at least make sure that we take away some of the big investments in this decade. In the decade in which we would have a great deal of economic space, we need to make sure that we invest more in our infrastructure, invest more in broadband development and invest more in knowledge and research, so that we have the foundation to do so. So finally, as far as my emphasis on cities as dynamos for growth is concerned, it's not about centralisation – it's about decentralisation. I believe that just by investing in cities in regions throughout Norway, we can contribute to decentralisation in Norway and ensure that we have a balanced growth in our country. I think it's one of the important steps we can take to make sure that we get more growth all over the country, and make sure that we get a positive development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1135	I would also like to take this opportunity to thank you for the debate. It is – as I said at the outset – good that we have such debates. The interpellant pointed out in his last speech that international conditions will change, for Norway, in the direction that we have to expect to face stronger competition out there. That's the one picture. The second picture is that the international power conditions in the economy are going to change, so that in a few years' time we will be standing ahead of other markets elsewhere than what we are doing today, which of course will also affect Norwegian exports and Norwegian value creation. Then I agree with those who say it's important to succeed. I think we're going to have that fuss both in politics and otherwise we're going to build up among those who succeed in many areas. It is important that businesses and people succeed separately, and that we succeed together. So it's also important to bring with it in this discussion that the oil revenue goes down gradually, because we drain out a non-renewable resource. But there are two important things that remain after the oil business: one is the Pension Fund, and the other is a world-class oil industry that gives us new opportunities in new areas. The successful conversion of the oil-related industry towards renewable energy, environmental and climate technologies is perhaps one of the most important tasks we face. We are strong in marine management and management of marine resources. We are strong in different fields of service. So there are possibilities if we want, and if we can. Then it's an important part of the policy to contribute to anchoring long-termity, that is to say to get the impact of this long-term project out there among people. So a comment on a couple of numbers. If we look at the growth in mainland Norway from 2006, the growth in mainland Norway today is 8pst. higher than it was in 2006. It's important, and that's good. It was productivity growth in 2007. It went down somewhat in 2008, which is quite normal when a boom goes to the end. There was growth in 2009 and 2010. According to the estimates operated by the SSB, we now have higher productivity in 2010 than we had in 2006. Otherwise, the government will present several important messages this spring. One is the evaluation of tax reform. Then we will have the opportunity for a wide-ranging debate on the place of the tax system. In addition, distribution notification, ownership notification, and subsequently a new perspective notification will also be made.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1150	The debate on substance is closed. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1197	I will try with this debate to clarify how the government thinks about the CO2 tax, to ensure that there is a predictable and sensible use of this form of tax. There are many CO2 taxes mentioned in the speech from the President. Car, boat and aircraft are very common, but also on Norwegian base one often boasts of the CO2 tax that is there. In addition, the CO2 argument or CO2 tax on the purchase of a car comes, and one has, in previous written questions, challenged the Minister of Finance: If a car can drive on both petrol and gas, could one then benefit from a gas having lower emissions than petrol? The Ministry of Finance then reserves the right to drive on what gives the largest emissions, and therefore a one-off fee is charged as if the car were only driving on petrol. It also makes such multi-fuel cars not coming out very lucky. It will also create a challenge with the modern auxiliary petrol electric cars when it comes to how to tax them. Now there are also some people who want you to have a CO2 component in the tolling system. Then you will get triple taxation of the same emission. What becomes my questions is how to justify the rates of CO2 charges in the light of the real emissions, and whether you have any principal thoughts, when you call something for a CO2 tax, about what the money will be spent on. In the 2011 State budget, there is a discussion of the revenue for CO2 tax and the different levels. If we look at the income just from the top. 5508 and 5543, which are the rates of the various fossil fuels, mineral oil — such things — and tax rates on the continental shelf, are the revenues of 7.1 billion. kr. With the current quota price and the assumptions made by the government for the quota price of CO2 for 2011, current revenues from CO2 taxes on fossil energy sources are more than large enough to allow Norway today to be CO2 neutral according to the government’s own definition. So when purchasing allowances for those revenues, we could have neutralised our emissions. Then it becomes a little special when in some contexts one will increase the CO2 tax or the CO2 rate even more with the reason that one has to cut CO2 emissions. So with the government's own climate targets for 2030 fresh in memory and the definitions used there, the CO2 tax is now enough. In addition, one in the tax proposal sees that there is a list showing the different rates. There you can see that heavy oil has a rate of 188 kroner per tonne of CO2. It's well above the quota price of CO2. But the point is that the rate here is only half of the rate a user charges on the CO2 tax on petrol. So according to that definition, petrol CO2 is twice as harmful to the environment as heavy oil CO2 emissions – unless there are only purely fiscal considerations on the basis. It should be stated in my logic that one rather increases the tax on petrol, in order to ensure that when a charge for CO2 is called, there is an objective reason. That is why I ask the Minister of Finance to explain the tax rates calculated per tonne of CO2, as the Ministry of Finance has done on page 115 of St.prp. No 1, on the level of taxes and charges for 2011, and why one can defend having different levels of the same types of emissions depending on the type of fossil fuel it is. The level should, in principle, be the same for all sources of charges. If one then thinks that the taxes on petrol are too low in relation to what one believes that consumers have to finance for wear on roads, queues, accidents and such things, or that one believes that there are other, slightly more difficult, defined environmental challenges that one has to cover, then a rather different tax will be imposed on it instead of hiding it in a CO2 tax. The debate is also being further updated with the fact that, in order to stimulate biofuels, one would like to increase the CO2 tax on fuel in order to be able to exempt that tax on biofuels. It will also show that a user uses the CO2 tax, not to set an objective price of CO2, but because a person wants to use it to satisfy other policy instruments. It may be fair and the Progress Party wants to use more biofuels in the transport sector. It has a total opposition desire. We have called for a more comprehensive policy on this, a discussion that the government itself strongly initiated when they introduced a biodiesel tax. But regardless of what you think about the biodiesel tax, it's okay to have a principle view of what kind of rate you should have on the CO2 tax, because you should have this objective view of what CO2 costs. It will happen no matter what kind of emission source you have. If you want to stimulate biofuels, you get other targeted instruments. I have always had the impression that the Ministry of Finance has been very clear that one should have one instrument in one goal, instead of having many instruments that would conflict with one another. I think the Council of State has understood what kind of fundamental challenges I'm looking for, and I'm going to give the word to him.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1305	Norway was, as is known, one of the first countries in the world to introduce a tax on CO2 emissions. It happened in 1991. In 2005, we introduced a system for trading greenhouse gas allowances. Today is more than 70 pst. by Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions either charged or covered by the allowance system. The CO2 tax and the quota system are therefore important instruments in climate policy, and I think that is widely agreed. The CO2 tax has been applied to the use of mineral oil, petrol and gas. If we measure the charge in kronor per tonne of CO2, the general rate for the use of mineral oil and gas is approx. 220 kroner Domestic aviation, which has been part of the debate, pays NOK 270. As the interpellant was involved, petrol is the highest CO2 charge, and here the charge is equal to 380 kroner per tonne. The oil business pays approximately DKK 180, but this activity also has a quota obligation. The Norwegian greenhouse gas quota trading system has been part of the EU system since 2008. The system now includes almost 40 pst. of the total Norwegian emissions. Among other things, CO2 emissions from the oil and gas activities, gas power plants, district heating and emissions from some industrial enterprises, such as from the wood processing industry, are included. When we became part of the EU system in 2008, we also got allowances on some emission sources that had paid CO2 tax until then. In the 2008 budget, the CO2 tax was removed for all land-based activities as part of the allowances system. This applies, for example, to: use of mineral oil in industry. The oil industry had a long-standing higher CO2 tax than other industries. At the time of the extension of the quota system, it was decided to reduce the levy for the oil sector so that the total carbon price would initially remain unchanged. It is the level of the CO2 tax and the allowance price that represents the total price of CO2 emissions. It is this carbon price that should motivate businesses and consumers to reduce emissions. A higher price in e.g. the oil industry therefore encourages more resource-intensive measures in this sector than in other industries. The fact that the carbon price is higher in this sector does not mean that the tax only intends to raise the state's revenues, as I heard in part from the interpellant. The high carbon price contributes to the reduction of emissions more than would otherwise have been the case. So ask the interpellant if the government will ensure that so-called double taxation of CO2 emissions is avoided. I would first like to refer to the climate agreement that has been concluded between all parties on the Stortinget, with the exception of the Progress Party. We agree that general instruments are central to national climate policy. Cross-sectoral economic instruments provide the basis for decentralised, cost-effective and informed measures to be paid by the polluter. Furthermore, the majority agree that in areas subject to these general instruments further regulation should be avoided as a general rule. Fees and allowances set a price for greenhouse gas emissions. Carbon pricing should, as far as possible, be based on a principle approach, where different emission sources should be at the same price. This is in a way the ideal principle, but in reality it has proved that it is difficult to reach the ideal principle. The variations we have in the carbon price partly have a competitive background and partly relate to international legislation or administrative considerations. The EU quota price is now approximately DKK 115 per tonne of CO2. We can face higher carbon prices in the future. In 2009, a sample led by the then Executive Director of the Statistical Central Bureau, Øystein Olsen, suggested that an estimate be drawn up for the evolution of the carbon price. The Ministry of Finance will follow up on this, including: in the guidelines for the implementation of socio-economic analyses. It's a work that we'll now start with. As far as aviation is concerned, I would like to refer to the written question from the representative of Kenneth Svendsen that I answered on 9 December last year. From 2012, the EU ETS will be extended to include aviation emissions. The Government has stated on several occasions that it wants a broad international quota system and that as far as possible countries and sectors, such as aviation and shipping, should be included. The Government has proposed that Norway participate in the EU aviation quota system. The Government proposes that the aviation allowance system itself should not change the incentives for emission reductions in domestic aviation. I will follow this up in the 2012 budget. The gas CO2 tax was assessed and not accepted by the EFTA Surveillance Authority (ESA) for several rounds. In the revised 2010 national budget, we stated that gas for use in ETS should in principle not be subject to a charge. The Ministry points out that both in this case and in previous cases, ESA has reason to believe that the allowance obligation cannot form the basis for the exemption. Therefore, in order not to raise any objections, the Ministry recommends that gas delivered to industry and to activities subject to emission allowances be low in line with the minimum rate of the EU Energy Tax Directive. The low rate is 5 øre per sm3 which equals about 25 kr per tonne of CO2. These include: from Norwegian Industry it has been stated that the EEA Agreement may provide for additional exemptions. It would be natural to look at such proposals. However, we will place the emphasis on compliance with ESA legislation. Norway has put in place a relatively comprehensive carbon pricing system. Agents in Norway that target CO2 emissions are environmentally justified. This applies even though, for different reasons, the potency of the instruments varies slightly between different sources. So what becomes important in the future and in a good climate policy for Norway is to balance the need to reduce emissions over time, in terms of the opportunities for Norwegian business to compete in international competition, and that the conditions for Norwegian business should not differ significantly from those of other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1382	I find it a little deplorable that the Minister of Finance assumes that one should be objective, but in practice everything is about using judgement, depending on what a need for income, depending on what is appropriate in the individual situation. That is in so far as a ‘fair enough’ position. But I believe that it destroys the creditability of that kind of charges when one tells the population that we are now going to have a charge of CO2 because CO2 is defined as pollution, but the amount of it varies very much, depending on what kind of fuel a user is using, or where the emission comes from. It's very bad that CO2 has to have the same effect wherever it comes from, and really in relation to where it comes from in the world. In particular, it is poorly harmonised when one sees that the level of tax revenue is more than large enough to neutralise the challenge that one has defined to exist. I don't think I can convince the Minister of Finance – I find that we disagree on this, and I think that is unfortunate. However, I would have liked the Minister of Finance to have commented a little on how he looks at simply using judgement here too by adjusting the CO2 charges up and down in order to do e.g.. Biofuels are competitive. As a result, a further double of the CO2 tax on petrol could make biofuels more profitable without meaning anything on the basis of an environmental definition of CO2 emissions from petrol. I would also like to get the Minister of Finance to be even clearer in terms of charges versus allowances on air traffic. Here I – I regret to say – the Minister of Finance believes that he also accepts double taxation both through charges and quotas on air traffic, in line with what the Minister for the Environment has said earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1408	As I said in my first post, I see the more fundamental challenges/problems of having different pricing of CO2 from different emission sources. Ideally, there should have been more equal pricing, because faced with different alternatives, it should be priced so that consumers or businesses want to switch to more climate-friendly alternatives or introduce new and more climate-friendly technologies. So all of us who charge fees, both in this hall and not least outside this hall, know that there are two ways to do it. One is to set up some fees to reach the highest level, and the other is to lower the highest charges to reach some sort of middle level. Reducing taxes is certainly easier than increasing taxes, while we also see that the challenges on the climate side will probably lead to a future burden on us to pay more for polluting climate emissions. But the sum total: we will continue to pursue an active climate policy. There will be a new climate announcement for the autumn. And as I said before, business and employment considerations in Norway will always have a high priority for this government as a whole, especially for the Workers' Party. So to the issue in question of the obligation to have allowances on domestic air transport. What I think it's important to stress here is that you have to look at the system conversion itself, which becomes a system conversion where you get both the CO2 tax and the quota obligation. My view is that this system conversion itself should not lead to an increase in the total load. Thus, there will be no double taxation, cf. what I said in my post about the relationship with the oil sector. So the system conversion itself should not lead to an increase in load. So only the future will show what is needed by pricing in order to achieve the climate impacts needed to reduce overall climate emissions in Norway in the years to come. It is clear that in order to reduce climate change emissions, the price will be central. I think it's also a discussion that we'll still come back to in the Storting, and that will balance this in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1425	I think it is important to debate the scheme on the general instruments of climate policy. It is about trading in allowances and about CO2 taxes, but also about subsidy schemes to stimulate research, development and energy saving, and for the capture and storage of CO2 emissions. A general principle is that the polluter should pay. As the finance minister pointed out, Norway became the first country to introduce a CO2 tax on the cap for 20 years ago, where emissions are now more than 60pst. lower than the world average. Ideally, the price of CO2 emissions should be in principle justified and should be the same irrespective of where the emissions occur. The quota system should be as broad as possible and cover as many countries as possible. It helps us to succeed in getting as big a cut as possible in the most effective way possible. For me, the concept of efficiency means that we have to use the money in such a way that we succeed in cutting as much as possible together to achieve the most powerful climate policy results. Nevertheless, criticism of the general solutions of climate policy tends to be based too much on cost-effectiveness. Today, on the other hand, we are discussing whether the instruments are too efficient, why not the level of CO2 taxes has been more harmonised. The Prime Minister also reflects on this in the book Klimaparadoxet. For a small, open economy such as the Norwegian economy, there is an advantage with broad global agreements that ensure equal use of instruments in as many countries as possible. In this way, we prevent carbon leakage, companies flagging out to areas without climate tax. But it is far from all types of emissions that can be flagged out. Transport, heating and oil production are examples of tasks that cannot simply be moved out of Norway. Or as the book says, if you're going to drive from Oslo to Tønsberg, you have to do it from Oslo to Tønsberg. You can't drive from Hamburg to Berlin instead. Therefore, we can have a higher CO2 tax on petrol, fuel oil and on the base, and probably it reflects the real costs more correctly than in the industry, which can easily choose production elsewhere. As regards the CO2 tax on gas for heating construction, we know that it was designed as a general gas tax with the exemption for gas used for other purposes and that ESA concluded that the exemption was contrary to the public aid legislation, but that the tax would be within the scope of the legislation if everyone paid a tax above the minimum rates of the EU energy tax Directive. The new Decision therefore states that gas delivered to industry and to undertakings with emission allowances is low in line with the minimum rates. If the EEA Agreement opens up a more flexible way of doing this, I believe we need to look at it, as long as the fee continues to comply with the ESA legislation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1459	Let me first thank the representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, for raising an important debate. The right agrees with the interpellant that it is initially right to have a consistent approach to the price of emissions. It's in line with the theories of socio-economic efficiency that we use in many other contexts. However, it is a principle that is not always followed, and in this context with good reason. For example, for the petroleum sector: retained a reduced CO2 tax even after the introduction of the quota obligation for the sector. The petroleum sector is the only sector in Norway that pays fully for its emissions into the allowance system. At the top of this, the sector pays the CO2 tax. This is because the allowance price is so low that if only the old high CO2 tax were to be replaced by the allowances, the petroleum sector would have paid significantly less for its emissions than before and that was not the purpose of the allowance system. The fact that the petroleum sector pays CO2 tax in addition to the quota price makes it profitable to introduce climate action in this sector that would not have been profitable in other sectors. In Climate Change 2020, a similar CO2 tax menu has been presented for all sectors. A uniform CO2 tax, according to economic theory, provides cost-effectiveness, given the assumption of well-functioning markets. This is the socio-economic most profitable menu in Climate Change. The model indicates a reduction of 12 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent can be achieved with a uniform charge of DKK 1500 per tonne. There is a solution that ensures the inter-pellant's desire for an objective approach across emission sources and where the level of CO2 tax is harmonised across emission sources. The problem with this approach is that it is ignored that different sectors and actors operate in different markets with very different competitive situations. The solution will be optimal in a non-profit world where all countries impose the same levy. The introduction of a similar CO2 tax in Norway of NOK 1500 per tonne of CO2 will lead to serious problems for the high-emission industry. Climate change 2020 also confirms that such a uniform charge will lead to a reduction in employment and output in emission intensive industries. Such a charge will be well above the competitor in other countries and will result in a substantial shift of production from Norway to other countries with lower charges. This form of carbon leakage does not bring any benefit to the climate. On the contrary, the emission-intensive industry will move production from a country where power generation is based on hydropower to countries where power generation is based on coal or gas. It will be able to move emissions – do not cut them. I therefore assume that the interpellant does not seem to have benefited from such a charge. Instead, if a common charge were to be imposed at a level that the high-emission industry could live on without significant carbon leakage, it would result in a charge that was so low that it would not have any real effect. Today, as consumers, we pay far more CO2 tax on petrol and diesel than the process industry does for its emissions. If we had a common charge at the level of the high-emission industry paying, it would give significantly lower prices of petrol and diesel – which the Party of Progress probably has no objection to – but it would be impossible to bring emissions in the transport sector down to a level that would allow the climate settlement to be achieved. It is true that the CO2 tax is a fiscal charge, but it is a fiscal charge with a clear environmental policy justification: it should contribute to behavioural changes that reduce CO2 emissions. Properly designed, it makes us drive a smaller car or switch to more climate-friendly cars and fuels, and so the emissions go down. Galt used causes Norwegian industrial production to move to countries with a lower climate tax and, therefore, to shift emissions — and often increase. The conclusion is that, when designing CO2 taxes, we must take account of different payment willingness and ability in different sectors. Screened sectors and drivers have to pay more for our greenhouse gas emissions than for the competitive industry. Therefore, the right agrees with the inter-pellant that as far as advice is concerned, the number of instruments should be limited, but disagree that there must be the same level for all emission sources. The level of the CO2 charge needs to be adapted to the ability of different sectors to pay.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1530	It has been a long time since I took part in a debate with Ketil Solvik-Olsen on climate change, but it really feels like it was yesterday, because it is a repetition of the same old rule, namely that we really should not have any special pollution charges at all. Clearly, neither Solvik-Olsen nor the party he represents, namely the Progress Party, have any concerns about climate change and no concern about local pollution. It was the Solvik-Olsen sail that pulled this out with bombings, which is a hyper-current discussion – not least in this city, but even more so in the West and in Bergen, where small children's parents actually get the recommendation to move out of town if they have asthmatic children. Something so tardy you should look for a long time! If it is something we big-scale politicians should take seriously, it is the pollution situation that we, among other things, are. in the case of emissions from transport. Then you can choose to attack this by saying that we have too high charges, for example. on diesel, on NOx, or on NO2, but it may also be on CO2. From our side, and from the government side, we prefer to see the opposite, namely that we have to solve a global climate problem, we have to do a job nationally, and we also have to address the local pollution problem. Greenhouse gas emissions have now fallen in 2008 and 2009, and that is good. Some of it is due to policies, others are due to the financial crisis. Anyway, this is going to be a bluff if we don't keep up on this. It is then that we are now going to design a climate policy with high objectives, and all the parties, except the Advance Party, agreed on it in the climate agreement. We're going to renew this in a new climate announcement. It'll take a good deal of us. Several of us who take part in this debate are in the Financial Committee and should also be concerned about this from a fiscal perspective, because we have received very clear warnings that the longer we wait to do something, the more expensive it will be to do something about the problems. Sucks if many people think that the climate problem is off because we've had a cold winter, it's so that researchers tell us that precisely because we've got climate change that strikes out in special ways, it gives us, among other things. colder winters here – and will probably do it for years to come. But in any case, we cannot connect this to a question of weather. At least we know that there is a question of class and a question of social distribution, and that the poorest people in the world are hardest hit by climate problems when they strike out either in drought, in floods or in other kinds of disasters. So Solvik-Olsen uses air traffic as an example. Norway has previously had a seat fee and an airline passenger fee. We now have a situation with domestic CO2 taxes, which are, in fact, lower than for car traffic. Air traffic is to enter the EU's quota system, and we think that is good. Nevertheless, it would be irresponsible if we did not have to assess the instruments collectively. And one thing is certain: we have to bring down the emissions from air traffic. In fact, we also need to reduce air traffic. There is some reason why SV is also very concerned about this with lightning trains. The Nordics fly most in Europe – three times as often as the Swedes and ten times as often as the average Germans. And we have three of the fifteen most trafficked flight routes in Europe. So we know that a flight has ten times as high energy consumption as a train trip and cloudy climate emissions. That's why we have to bring down the emissions from aviation. Within offshore, where this is also a current issue, we know that there are actors, for example. Eidesvik Offshore, who calls for a bet in this area, because they see it as a competitive advantage if Norway is offensive in terms of environmental taxes. I miss that perspective from the best Solvik-Olsen, namely to see that business can actually benefit from a tax regime that is offensive and demands. It could mean getting a more innovative business life that comes before us. An example is also microsilica, which was produced among others. As a result, we received a sulphur tax in Norway. The offshore industry in Norway, the oil industry, is very busy showing how the CO2 tax, which was in contrast to around 1990, has given Norway a competitive advantage. Why not focus more on it, instead of constantly painting the situation black and trying to make people think we don't have a climate problem, and if we do, at least we shouldn't do anything special about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1564	I would also like to thank you for the interpellation. I notice a happy development: when we're talking about climate, we're not just talking about carbon dioxide, but we're starting to talk more and more about what's at the heart of it, carbon. This carbon, in the form of carbon dioxide, is not a poison, it's food for the plants, but in too many concentrations it affects our living environment. If a carbon pricing from non-renewable sources speaks about the allowance price or the CO2 tax, it is a more practical, pragmatic question for the Centre Party. What's at the heart of it is that we want to praise the non-renewable carbon, which is the problem in the form of carbon dioxide when it's released, so it changes the profitability in the use of carbon stock versus renewable carbon. Carbon is a source of energy, but it is also a building material in many products. We've had an increasingly strong discussion in Norway that, in terms of energy, we should think of sunlight directly, and so think of electrons, hydropower in terms of hydroelectric electrons, wind power, or something like that, but in the case of carbon, we need to think more about that there are building materials in the processes and the raw materials that we need to work. So we're talking about pricing to change the profitability using renewable carbon versus non-renewable carbon. The non-renewable carbon is cheap carbon, because it is very little labor-intensive to harvest it, while a lot of labour is needed to produce the renewable carbon. So we want to use a charging system, or another economic system, to correct these relationships, so that the renewable carbon becomes more economically profitable to use. In that process, you have to have an eye for more things than just climate. One must have an eye for the competitiveness of our industry, one must have an eye for the political consequences for most people, and one must have an eye for the consequences of a centre/periphery approach. What for the government parties is central, and for the centre party in particular, is that we add up to what we have called predictable, changed framework conditions, that is, within the democratic system we have, we are going out with strong public information, clear political choices, explaining the contexts and saying here that into the future we must have a turn to replace the non-renewable carbon with renewable carbon, for example. as a fuel for those cars that have such large engine capacity that they cannot go on electric current. It is therefore gratifying that, in agriculture, agricultural organisations are now saying that the agricultural industry will become fossil-free by 2030, and that by then one will be able to obtain technology and resources to drive heavier vehicles, tractors and other things, on biofuels. As far as pricing is concerned, it has an impact on, for example: the plastic raw material. Plastic feed may come from biorefineries or current oil refineries. If we price the oil refinery carbon with taxes, it will improve the profitability of biorefineries. Similarly, we have major challenges related to aviation and shipping. Today, joyous things happen with regard to international shipping by imposing on a number of major ports the ships to which they are to call, technology requirements, which make them more environmentally friendly, and thus will infect the entire industry. Similarly, air traffic may be subject to requirements for air pollution in the airspace by excessive CO2 emissions, and thus gradually to a few more sound air fleets. What I am looking for here is that in order to achieve the goal of using renewable carbon more in relation to the non-renewable, we must use economic instruments, but we must also be willing to use legal instruments. It is rare that one instrument reaches the target. It has too many weaknesses, so we need more instruments in most cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1593	I have understood the interpellant there that he wants to hear the government’s view on how CO2 costs should be introduced, that there should be ‘a principle, objective approach across emission sources’. A debate about it would be quite possible to have without, what to say, going into a clinic if you should have the fee or not, and at what level it should be. Here are some principles that, regardless of what else we think about this, should be debated. The polluter pays principle is an important principle of Norwegian climate policy. It's also delineated in the climate deal. It also follows from this principle that the cost of pollution should be roughly the same irrespective of the source and the polluter. With that as a hindrance, I have to say that there is reason to ask some questions relating to both the logic and the predictability of the system that we now have, for which the government bears responsibility. Some examples: the tariffs for CO2 taxes in the 2011 government budget are partly significantly different from the cost of CO2 emissions from different sources. Gasoline is charged a fee of NOK 371 per tonne of CO2, while the corresponding levy for diesel is NOK 218. The CO2 tax on heavy oil amounts to NOK 99 per tonne, while natural gas for industrial use has a charge of only NOK 25 per tonne. The government also has quite different rates of taxation for emissions from the same source. For example, the gas power plants in Kårstø and Mongstad have to pay a total of 500 million. kr less in CO2 tax than a corresponding gas power plant on the Snow White plant. Why is it not easy to understand, and I have not heard any reasons from the government team either. Compared to the gas power plant on Snow White, Kårstø and Mongstad are thus exempt from the CO2 tax by 1/10>. Where Snow White has to pay 48 cents of CO2 per m3 of gas, Kårstø and Mongstad will get away with 5 cents. And as if this is not enough, Mongstad and Kårstø are allocated all their allowances in the allowance system free of charge from the state. This is happening at the same time as the promises of CO2 cleaning for the same gas power plants, i.e. Kårstø and Mongstad, are actually being scrapped. The petroleum activity on the continental shelf is subject to a CO2 tax equivalent to DKK 180 per tonne, but is also subject to a quota obligation. I have to say that there is every reason to ask for a more detailed justification for the large differences in CO2 prices between different sources and sectors. If you think that there should be an equal price for CO2 emissions regardless of source and sector, you have to clean it up. I believe that it will give the market more logic and predictability, and I hope the government will grasp this.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1646	This is in many ways an interesting debate, and I would like to start by saying that having a fully harmonised system with a neutral CO2 charge that was high enough to implement the necessary measures is in many ways a very intrusive idea. I want to go so far as to say that it must be the classic «dream scenario of economists». But we who have been following the international climate negotiations for a few years know that it's very far until we have a global price of CO2 that's something close to leading to that we can meet the 2 degree target. The reality is that it's not going to happen within the time window that we have, and that makes us have to use more instruments at the same time. Then I think it's obviously reasonable that we have a system that is differentiated and that takes into account, for example, that. tolerable by competitive industries less than sheltered enterprises and sectors, as transport is. I think that the representative Astrup had a lot of good reasoning about that. The representative Tegen referred to the Prime Minister’s book ‘Climate paradox’ – a journey by car in Norway cannot be replaced by a trip in China. The same applies, of course, to air travel between Oslo and Trondheim. We have some of the same principle on the base. If you want to extract an oil field, you have to do what the oil can do, and there we are operating with a combination of a CO2 tax and a quota obligation. This is about having a balance between food and climate policy. Then, of course, it must be an objective that the instruments should be as general as possible. It was an important topic when we negotiated the climate agreement, and then we wrote that in «areas subject to general instruments», as a general rule, «further regulation» should be avoided. I also think it is right for the Minister of Finance to say that the government is suggesting that the aviation allowances system itself should not change the incentives for emission reductions in domestic aviation. But when that's said, I would, despite having an economic background myself, warn against being completely categorical about never doing more measures in sectors that are subject to allowances, at least as long as the quota price is so low that it cannot trigger the technological breakthroughs that we need. At that time it may sometimes be right to go in with more instruments to stimulate further emissions and further use of new technologies. And we do that in some areas, for example. in the field of gas power. So I also generally believe that combinations of whips and carrots are usually more pleasant and in every way also more effective than combinations of whips and whips, which I think you should be careful with. I imagine that government-funded research, different ways of stimulating employment in the quota sector as well. I think that's absolutely necessary. Then there are many who claim that environmental taxes have little to do with the environment, but I don't think anyone can claim anything but that the CO2 tax has led to significant emission reductions. Even I think it's good if we can combine it with getting income into the community by stimulating right behaviour, so I'm a strong supporter of continuing to work with green tax exchange, which we've started with in the transport sector. So I have to say, at the end of the day, that I suspect the Progress Party that there is a desire for the lowest possible cost of CO2 to fly that is the motivation to raise this interpellation debate, and not a serious concern that environmental taxes should be discredited among people.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1681	I would like to thank most contributors for a good and constructive debate. The important thing here was to get a basic debate on pricing CO2. I'm glad that most people understood that, and that someone then also got the lights on these arguments. I would like to thank you, among others. The representative Tegen from the Workers' Party for a good report. The same applies to the Right and to the Representative Astrup. I also agree with Astrup that having a CO2 charge at the level of the climate cure suggested is not desirable. I am not saying that a single fee should be used as an instrument to cut CO2 emissions. What is particularly true about climate change is that policymakers have set a target for domestic action, thus limiting the scope for business to take action on the basis of a global challenge. Fees are also not the only instrument that can be used. For example, tax incentives, or tax relief, are a way of stimulating action. This has been proposed by the Party in respect of, for example: energy saving. It would give the same effects as an increased fee would do, but with a more pleasant welcome to the population. Similarly, the Progress Party, and to the extent that an overall opposition, has said that in the case of CO2 cleaning technologies, the State should be involved and make an important contribution. But unlike the government, we want to have a broader approach, where all project actors should be able to get an assessment. The government limits this to Mongstad. Then you can always take a climate-demagogic approach afterwards to who takes the problem most seriously, but it's the results that count, and not who expresses the greatest possible concern. Therefore, I see no particular reason to comment on SV's posts further. However, I am very pleased with some of the clarifications given by the Minister of Finance. The fact that one says that a system conversion should not lead to an increase in load is an important and good clarification. I think that is also something that protects business: if you choose to go from a charging system to a quota system, at least you will not get a double tax that increases the burden in relation to today. It's important. It has confirmed to a large extent for the petroleum industry, but the Minister for the Environment gave a slightly different approach than the Minister for Finance, and I choose to trust the Minister for Finance in this regard. I see that I cannot expect the Minister of Finance to achieve absolute harmonisation. It is not necessarily my goal either, but better harmonisation is still an objective for me. I hope that the Minister of Finance, at least next year's budget, can give a better reason why one relies on the different levels based on a CO2 argument: why one chooses one level of CO2 emissions from one source, while another chooses another level from another source.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1719	We've now had two interviews on two important questions. One has been about how to secure a sustainable economy in the future, and the one we have now had has been about how to ensure sustainable climate and environmental policies. Unfortunately, there were few writers in the press department. The interesting thing about these two interpellations is that in these two cases, it's the most important dividing lines in politics go, and they don't go between government and opposition, they go across the blue government option. It's just an observation we can bring with us to later. So the representative, Astrup, very well illustrated the different balances that we face in climate and environmental policy. And, of course, from a purely technical point of view, it is best to make charges that are simple and as uniform as possible. But it's not that simple; it's kind of part of the core. Policy must also take more into account. The same is true of taxes, whether they be CO2 taxes or VAT. Then you can think a lot about it, but it's kind of part of the device of the policy. What is important is that charges contribute to what I would call a cost-effective environmental policy and climate policy, where one uses the most powerful instruments in those areas where a wish to maximise the climate impact as quickly as possible and as best as possible. That's the one. The second is to contribute to a transformation and development of climate-friendly technology. Then it is that the charge and price will be a key instrument in climate and environmental policy in the future. That is why, in this interpellation, we end up with the fact that one of the major challenges we face in the next decade is to combine a good industrial policy on the one hand with an effective and good climate policy on the other. We need to pursue a policy that ensures that greenhouse gas emissions go down, while at the same time facilitating good business development in Norway. It's a demanding balance, there's no doubt about it. But so far, I think we have made this balance quite well. We were early on in an active climate policy and in setting a price for CO2 emissions, and the policy has produced results. Emissions are now much lower than they would otherwise have been. At the same time, we have also experienced strong economic growth and had good conditions for business. Several Norwegian companies are leading environmental technology. It is important that we be able to maintain this balance in climate policy in the future. I would like to thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1740	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is going to end.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1759	Norwegian society is interdependent on the development of our European neighbouring countries in an increasing number of areas. 80 pst. of the goods and services we export, ports in EU countries. 70 pst. of the goods and services we import come from our neighbouring countries in Europe. Norway is fully integrated into the internal market in Europe other than fisheries and agriculture, and more and more decisions with consequences for Norway are taken in Brussels rather than in the United Kingdom. In some cases we are directly affected, in other cases we are indirectly affected. In the wake of the Lisbon Treaty, Norway has become significantly more demanding to defend Norwegian interests in Brussels, and it has become more important than ever that Norway is early off to shape and promote Norwegian positions in the EU. This is most relevant within the energy field. Policies that are still in the pipeline — and thus possible to influence — are the EU's new energy strategy and the EU's energy infrastructure strategy. The Commission presented the strategies on 10 and 17 November last year, respectively, and will present additional and concrete packages of measures this year. The energy strategy is based mainly on given assumptions about very ambitious climate targets, the necessary infrastructure upgrades and the need for security of supply. This includes ambitious targets for new renewable energy, increased energy efficiency improvement, smart grids and diversification of fossil energy imports. The strategy estimates that the EU will need to invest 1 000 billion. the euro in this sector until 2020. Future networks, gas infrastructure of the future and CO2 transport and storage infrastructure of the future will be formed in 2011. This is a work Norway cannot wait to influence until the 27 EU countries have agreed on the final result. It's too late. Nor can Norway wait until the government submits an energy message to the Stortinget to clarify key strategic choices in national energy policy – choices that need to be made now if we are to play a role in the design of energy systems in northern Europe. The government has committed itself to a climate policy that will lead to significant excess power in Norway in the coming years. In these days, with high energy prices and high demand for imported power from our neighboring countries, a significant surplus of power can fade in a few years as a dream. But there is a likely outcome if the green certification market succeeds and we comply with EU energy efficiency improvement requirements. The Norwegian surplus of power, as we see it, should be used for three things. One is to facilitate a continued strong power-intensive industrial sector in Norway. It is good for the jobs and value creation in the country, but also for the global environment. Aluminium produced on coal produces 10 times as high emissions as aluminium produced on hydropower. The second is to reduce the vulnerability of the Norwegian power system in dry, cold years, when low water levels in the magazines necessarily result in price pressures for consumers and businesses. The third, and most relevant in this context, is to see Norway’s take-up of regulatory power in the context of the large amount of unregulated force in Northern Europe. Norway will never become Europe's battery, until it is the Norwegian power reserves for small ones. But we can become an important player in the North European market if it is political will to do so. Several Norwegian power generators have been involved in the development of pumped storage plants in Norway. Norwegian hydropower plants are largely based on several smaller mountain warehouses. It makes it relatively advantageous to pump water from a lower location to a higher-level warehouse at low power prices, and then to produce power at higher prices. In itself, pumped storage plants can also help to reduce the vulnerability of low water levels in the warehouses. The implementation of pumped storage plants and their possible extent are both a commercial issue and a political issue that should be addressed. The large take-up of new unregulated power resulting from large wind turbines in the United Kingdom, Northern Germany, the Netherlands and Denmark can contribute significantly to increasing the value of Norwegian hydropower. At the same time, it can help stabilise prices for Norwegian consumers. To the right, Norway believes that it must have an ambition to play a significant role in the development of the energy sector in the North Sea basin and that this ambition must be an integral part of the EU’s strategy. Power exchange requires network investment. The ambitions of state networks for several foreign establishments are positive, but need to be seen in the context of the development of the network in Europe. Therefore, it is positive that Norway participates in the offshore initiative of the North Sea countries, signed in Brussels on 3 December 2010. In this context, the development of a possible future North Sea supernet is important. Norway should also contribute to the EU gas strategy. Norwegian gas is an important bridge to the renewable society. Therefore, Norway should have the ambition to maintain its role as a significant gas supplier to Europe. However, it is an ambition which presupposes courageous national decisions on, among other things, impact assessment of new exploration areas north of existing gas infrastructure. Today it is 7 800 km with pipeline in the North Sea. The value of this infrastructure — how it is further developed — depends partly on political choices in Norway and partly on political choices in the EU. The geopolitical dimensions still weigh heavily on EU gas policy and will have an impact on the EU's infrastructure choices. Norway has good cards in hand, but we need to see our role in Europe's gas supply in the context of Russia's North Sea policy, the development of the gas network in Russia and the EU's ambition to open a gas corridor to the south. In this context, neither the EU nor Norway is indifferent about how new Norwegian gas finds its way to the European market. Norway’s position in the European gas market will be significantly weakened if we fail to develop resources and infrastructure further over the next few years. Of course, it is possible to make decisions that contribute to this, but we hope the Council of State agrees that it would not be for the best for Norway and Europe. Norway wishes to contribute to the development of CO2 capture and storage technologies. It's an ambition we share with the EU. Both the UK and the Italians are required to take investment decisions on full-scale CO2 treatment plants during the third quarter of 2011. Norway’s commitment to the TCM is becoming more topical because other countries also see the capture and storage of CO2 as a possible solution to climate challenges. In the longer term, the EU plans a common infrastructure for the transport and storage of CO2. It is very relevant for Norway to participate. Common infrastructure will make it possible to use the value chain of CO2 in a completely different way from today. In Canada, a joint CO2 pipeline is currently in the process of being built so that new emission points can easily be connected and that the CO2 gas can then be transported to a network of customers that can use it for increased extraction from existing oil fields or in production where CO2 is currently included as a raw material. It changes the price of CO2. Where CO2 currently poses mainly a problem and a cost, an efficient transport infrastructure will also give it a positive market value. In addition, Norway has significant opportunities to store CO2 in the North Sea basin. In several European countries, resistance to storage of CO2 under densely built strips is reported despite the fact that CO2 is a harmless gas in all contexts other than climate. The ability to store CO2 in the North Sea Basin should be an integral part of the EU CCS strategy. 2011 will be an important year in shaping the European energy policy of the future. Norway must participate. In addition to an active European policy, this requires the government to decide what national energy policy should be. Energy policy worldwide is high on the political agenda. In Norway, the situation is different. The last government submitted a communication to the Stortinget on energy policy was in 2006. The renewable energy concerned was on four sides and the measures were withdrawn the following year. When the EU discusses the major lines of energy policy, the Stortinget must also take the debate. The questions I hope we will be addressed in today's debate are, on the one hand, how the Council of State assesses the consequences and opportunities for Norway within the EU's energy strategy, and, on the other, what positions Norway will seek to promote in the coming period, and, on the other hand, what strategy Norway has for promoting and implementing them in the EU. Through the year 2011, the EU will seek to concreteise the energy strategy in the form of measures that will in very many cases be EEA-relevant. Norway is part of the continent in which the EU is forming, and it is in the interests of both parties that Norway participates in the political community in Europe as far as possible within the limits of our self-imposed exclusion. To say it to Jan P. Syse, if we don't hang out with each other, we're all connected to each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1849	I think I will leave the last metaphor about the EU being in the process of forming a continent of which Norway is also a part. We'll take that later; I thought the continent was there. But the energy policy, we have to discuss it. Energy policy in the EU has intensified in the last three years. We have noticed that EU energy ministers and Heads of State have been more committed to overall energy policy issues. The issues referred to by the representative Astrup will be addressed at the EU Summit on 4 February. From the Norwegian side, we follow the development of the EU energy strategy from two points of view. Firstly, Norway is an important supplier of energy and trading partner to the EU in terms of natural gas, electricity and oil. We are an integral part of the EU market and the Nordic regional electricity market. I have a good ongoing dialogue with the European Commission. At the latest today, I had the Belgian Minister of State visiting my office, and we just discussed these questions. Secondly, through the EEA Agreement, Norway is obliged to include relevant energy legislation in the agreement. Overall decisions may, in the next round, lead to new proposals for directives and regulations being the subject of negotiations within the EU system. I see it as a great advantage that we are early out when it comes to influencing EU processes – which I perceive the representative of Astrup was also concerned about. On 10 November 2010, the European Commission presented a document entitled ‘Energy 2020 — A strategy for competitive, sustainable and safe energy’. This is a communication that is now being discussed internally in the EU. The EU Member State has not yet concluded. From the Norwegian side, I would like to emphasise an offensive position on the Council conclusions that will come from the EU Summit on 4 February and from the Energy Minister's meeting on 28 February. The communication is wider than in the past and with clearer priorities. The overall objectives of the EU's energy policy approach are set and contribute to sustainable energy development, competitive and functioning energy markets and to secure energy supply. Since the representative Astrup asks the question of how Norway can become part of the EU energy strategy, it is important to underline Norway’s formal EEA point of departure. Decisions on the EU energy strategy are now taken by the European Council, which means that the objectives and strategies adopted by the EU constitute an external framework for our possible subsequent EEA obligations. We are not directly part of the EU energy strategy policy decisions. Later we will look at new proposals that are relevant to the EEA Agreement. That said, there are no formal or real restrictions on how Norway and Norwegian actors can influence the process in the future in the early stages of the EEA Agreement. We must be active in these processes and promote Norwegian interests where appropriate. The Communication from the Commission takes as its starting point that EU countries have failed to deliver adequately in relation to the overall objectives, and the Commission points out that more clear priorities and choices are needed in the energy sector. I would like to mention some examples that are of importance for Norway’s national choice of strategy, in EEA processes and for Norway as an energy nation. Firstly, it is established that there is an improvement potential in the energy markets for electricity and gas. The Commission claims that infrastructure needs to be modernised, including: in order to absorb the increase in renewable energy. Secondly, there are improvements to be made in the field of energy efficiency. Thirdly, it points out that one must work to stimulate the use of new energy technologies. Fourthly, it is said that efforts must be made to make energy policy more consumer-friendly and that improvements in safety related to the production of energy of different forms of energy must be made. Fifthly, the EU will continue to work towards the development of the EU's external energy policy, for example: by influencing the framework for the safe use of nuclear power in non-EU countries. I would like briefly to comment on some of these main priorities in the EU energy strategy discussion. Where are our main interests, and how can we be offensive enough in matters that the Commission draws up in its proposal for a strategy? Norway is one of the main suppliers of natural gas in the EU internal energy market. Deliveries from Norway amount to 20 pst. consumption in the EU. Natural gas is the least carbon-intensive source of fossil fuels. Norway needs clear EU signals on the future role of natural gas in achieving the EU's objectives in the field of climate change, security of energy supply and the functioning of the market. Good dialogue with EU institutions and key actors is central to achieving this. I will continue to work actively to promote the role of natural gas in Europe's energy mix. From the Norwegian side, we have great interests in how the EU develops an internal energy market in both gas and electricity. We want the EU to be able to remedy any weaknesses. From the Norwegian side, we have been early out with market reforms for the electricity market, and we are now resuming the so-called third energy market package in the EEA. I want our actors to participate actively in the new cooperation mechanisms established through the new cooperation between the energy regulators in what is called the Acer, and between the system operators of the energy networks, what is called the ENTSO. I want to work with my Nordic colleagues to develop the Nordic regional electricity market within the framework of the European electricity market. By having a more integrated European and Nordic power market, we are reducing the vulnerability of our power system, which we have clearly seen in recent times. These two questions are issues that I have regularly discussed with two different EU Commissioners. There have been good conversations, conversations where I have felt that we are being listened to precisely because we have the strong supplier role we have, especially of gas. The development of unregulated renewable power generation in Europe creates new challenges. Norway, with the regulatory capacity of the hydropower system, can contribute here. I heard that the representative, Astrup, thought calling it Europe's green batteries was hard to handle. I believe that we should look offensively at the opportunities that lie here, including possible road choices both in the EU and in Norway. We are prepared to support the EU's ambitions to strengthen the commitment to renewable energy. Attention to investment in infrastructure to improve the conditions for new renewable energy is a key element of the EU's renewable effort. The situation in Norway is unique in this context. We have a renewable share that is high above the EU average. Norway’s share of total renewable electricity production in the EU is 23 pst. We are now discussing with the EU how to implement the renewable directive. From 1 January 2012, Norway and Sweden will have a common certificate market for the stimulation of new renewable electricity generation. This is the first time two countries are coordinating the investment in renewable electricity production through a single electricity certificate market. It is therefore also of great interest from the EU side to establish this market. An infrastructure package was submitted by the Commission as early as 17 November 2010 as a first follow-up to the Energy Strategy Paper. There are many elements here, including: questions that I now referred to, inside. In this package, the importance of infrastructure for natural gas, offshore wind and electricity connections with the Nordic market is referred to as important for the EU. I believe that Norway will continue to be an important player in the development of infrastructure, as the Commission points out. On 3 December 2010, I signed a Memorandum of Cooperation with a total of 10 countries and the European Commission to strengthen cooperation on the development of the offshore wind framework in the North Sea. In my contacts with the Commission and with selected EU countries, I have placed great emphasis on developing cooperation on offshore wind. I have had good dialogues on the theme with both the United Kingdom – including Scotland, which is active – and the Netherlands. Our national work on offshore wind legislation and strategies has come a long way, and we want this regional, international cooperation to provide good synergies with national work. I have noted that the European Commission and the Member States of the European Union are placing increasing emphasis on another policy area, namely energy efficiency improvement. In the Commission’s proposal for an energy strategy, this is of the highest priority. We will have to come back to that in the further debate today. However, as shown here, there is a wide range of areas of cooperation between Norway and the EU in energy, areas that I believe it is in both interests to ensure that we develop further in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1908	Let me first thank the Council of State for a thorough answer, for a thorough article on an important topic. I was also very happy to hear that the Council of States has as its starting point that we are going to be active and early in our dealings with our friends in Brussels, and not that we are going to wait until the EU has made its formal decisions and then wait for the relevant matters to enter the EEA system, and then to end up with us. Then the train has gone to be the active driver of the solutions we want. I am pleased that the Council of State has such an offensive attitude. Then there were some elements that the Council of State mentioned, which I would like to see him go a little closer to. One concerns infrastructure, inter alia: for natural gas. As I was in my post, it is not by chance how the gas in Norway finds its way to Europe. How does the Council of State view the further development of the Norwegian gas infrastructure northwards, from the north and northwards, so that we have a route to get our gas from the north to the EU, up against the alternatives, which may be to send our gas through Russian pipelines. That's the one. The second concerns the development of automatic current meters, AMS. The EU is offensive, but the Council of State has also signaled that he wants to carry out the development of this type of meter in Trøndelag. To what extent is there cooperation between Norway and the EU on common standards in these areas? The Council of State also mentioned the renewable directive, which will undoubtedly be important. He did not comment on pumping power. It could be interesting if the Council of State could say something about the development of pumping power in Norway, and how he deals with it, the importance it will have both for the renewable directive and for Norway as part of the energy market we are, in northern Europe first and foremost. With that, I look forward to the response of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1923	I am happy to answer these questions, which are proper, proper and relevant in connection with this issue. The reason why something is not answered is simply the amount of questions and how far we get. Firstly, when it comes to being early in the process, I believe that it is really of the things we have experienced that are important in dealing with the EEA Agreement in the areas where the policy goes between the EU and Norway. We have to be early out, because that's because we have the best results in the individual processes. We have to keep doing that. There is a reason for a lot of what is conveyed from my side to my side, for example. Our Energy Councils in Brussels. With regard to the question of the gas infrastructure, the representative was most concerned with any extensions northwards. I think I can answer very briefly and precisely with regard to any new Norwegian gas pipelines: it will be based on commercial assessments. If there is a commercial basis for building new gas pipelines in Norway — whether they go northwards, westwards or southwards — I think it makes sense to look at it. The situation now is that we're also looking at how we're going to use the pipelines we have. The representative Astrup is well aware of the discussions about whether we have enough gas for Kårstø, for example, in a half-long perspective. So here, the commercial basis – the findings that are being made, and the volume to be transported – is what I think will have to decide if new construction projects may be started. And then LNG is also a competitor, if we can use that term, in addition to what the representative Astrup said about Russian pipelines. We see that a not insignificant part of the gas transport around the world is now going on in that way. That's the case with the AMS. To that I would say that having a coordinated process with the EU has been behind me and our thinking on this so far. It would be foolish to come up with solutions in Norway that were not interconnected with the countries around us. That's why we've also been a little daring to do this faster than it was supposed to do. The decision we made last week is based on combining the two considerations – running a process that is common to the EU, in that we do not end up with completely different standards, while we get started quickly enough in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1934	The representative Astrup raises an important question about how Norway should deal with EU energy policy processes. I am very pleased that the representative Astrup does. There is no doubt that the EU has intensified its work on energy policy in recent years. The third package of EU energy market directives provides guidance on how energy markets are organised, including in Norway and the Nordic countries. Norway is a major supplier of energy to the EU. Norway is large in Europe in both oil, gas and electricity from renewable energy. State power is the largest renewable energy producer in Europe, much due to hydropower. Norway is clearly interested in monitoring what the EU is doing in the field of energy. Energy policy in the EU is at stake, and it is important for Norway to follow along. It is also important to be aware that Norway’s relationship with the EU in relation to specific directives is regulated by the EEA Agreement. We get the directives that are relevant to the internal market, but are not initially involved in the preparation of the EU's overall documents, as the representative of Astrup and I are painfully aware. We wanted it not to be like that, but we're dealing with the situation. And I am very pleased that the Council of State underlines so clearly that it should not mean that we do not follow the work done in the European Union, carefully. Norway plays an important role in the EU’s energy supply, and the EU plays a very important role in our energy supply. We are working closely with our neighbouring countries, both in the Nordic countries and in the EU, on the development of the power market so that we can exchange electricity between countries. We've seen in winter how important it is that we are connected to the outside world. It is very important that we follow the processes, not only in the Commission and the European Parliament, but also in ACER and ENTSO-E, which are EU regulator and network organisations respectively. Together with our Nordic neighbouring countries, we are an integral part of the European power market. It is therefore important that we also work for the NVE and Statnett to participate fully in their European umbrella organisations, and it is gratifying that Statnett is now on the board of ENTSO-E. The EU has set ambitious targets for increasing the share of electricity from renewable energy sources through the so-called renewable directive. The Government has stated that this Directive is EEA-relevant and is in negotiations with the EU – as the Council of State said in its statement – on the concrete objectives for Norway. Flow from wind power is essentially unregulatable, so electricity is produced when it blows, whether you want it or not. Similarly, power is not produced when it does not blow, either one will. This places great demands on balancing force. Norway can play an important role in delivering leverage to the EU, thus helping to balance the large amount of wind power. Hydropower is an optimal source of power for balancing wind power, and there is also a strong interest in the EU in such a future role for Norway. It is therefore essential that Norway participate when discussing new network connections in the EU, as Statnett is in ENTSO-E. I would also like to highlight the participation of Norway in cooperation with several EU countries in the work on the so-called North Sea Network. Norway is not a member of the EU, and therefore there are naturally enough limitations to our participation in internal EU processes. This does not mean – as the Council of State very clearly says – that we should pursue a passive European policy. It is essential that Norway has an active attitude to the processes taking place in the EU on the energy side, and I believe that we have that today. As far as participation in the EU energy strategy is concerned, I refer to the Council of State, which decided instead from the Chair, that many of the key priorities proposed by the European Commission for the internal energy market, electricity and gas infrastructure, offshore wind, renewable energy, energy efficiency and technology deployment, can play well with our future national road choices and Norwegian strategies. Governments say that we have very good channels to influence processes, both through our dialogue with the EU and the regular EEA processes. He is very clear that he will also promote the role of natural gas in the future, also in terms of infrastructure to drive the gas northwards or southwards. I am pleased with this clear speech and with the offensive steps taken by the Council of State and the Government in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1960	Norway has been an energy storm power in oil and gas for several decades. We have the home of the enormous resources in the North Sea, and it has made us one of the richest countries in the world. Still, there are huge resources we can use. Norway is also a major producer of clean renewable energy in Europe. It is claimed with weight that we are Europe's battery in power. If we are to play this important role, it is absolutely crucial that we have sufficient and secure online capacity for Europe. Therefore, infrastructure is also an important topic in the debate that the inter-pellant is taking up here. In February 2010, we had an interpellation on ‘supernets’ to Europe here in the hall. On the same day, an agreement was signed between Norway and the North Sea to work out an offshore network in the North Sea. An agreement was also signed on 3 December 2010 between the parties of The North Seas Countries’ Offshore Grid Initiative, where Norway is also involved. It's positive that the government is following up, but it would also be exciting to right what consequences the Council of State means the development of such an offshore network in the North Sea will have for the development of the network in Norway and for the other plans for extraterrestrials that we've seen in the past. It would also be interesting to challenge the Council of State at what pace you see such a development. Norway has a high potential for renewable energy production and there are large plans for new renewable energy production. The government’s climate notification and the January 2008 Storting climate agreement indicate that Norway will realise 30 TWh new renewable energy production or energy use by 2016. Today, gas and wind power projects are known to produce between 40 and 50 TWh per year if all of this is realised and produced too fully. In addition, there are known planned hydropower projects corresponding to around 12 TWh annual production and preheat projects corresponding to 5 TWh annual production. The NVE states that there are 35-40 TWh hydropower resources available outside the area covered by the protection plan, and that it has been reported approximately. 35-40 TWh wind power. NVE says that 25 TWh bioenergy, including 4 TWh waste, is available without taking resources from wood processing. The NVE also states that by 2020, the Nordic power balance will show a surplus of 30-40 TWh per year. Of these, Norway could have an excess of up to 12 TWh. If Norway is to produce more renewable energy and we do not expect a large increase in domestic consumption, the capacity of the rest of the world needs to increase significantly, in addition to the possibility that one can also electrify parts of the platforms on a Norwegian base. Norwegian Industry is concerned about what the transmission to the rest of Europe will mean for the price level of power in Norway. The leader of the L.A. Industrie Energie, Leif Sande, has, among other things, warn against multiple outlandscapes. In Today's Business 18 January 2010, Group Manager Svein Richard Brandtzäg in Hydro states: ‘There is no difference between exports of force and exports of aluminium. Both parts are exports of renewable energy, further processed or as raw material, both can contribute to solving climate problems and both provide value creation for the Norwegian community.’» I have faith in Hydro and in future Norwegian processing. As you know, the windmills do not have the ability to save energy. Nor can their output be regulated upwards or downwards in line with market price levels and demand. Norway will be able to import cheap energy during the night, with our effective ability to regulate production from the hydropower station. It should be able to exploit the power-intensive industry, with 24-hour continuous shifts. In fact, this energy has been so cheap last fall that spot prices have been negative at times, and we have paid to buy the power. With greater capacity to and from Europe, this will also have an impact on the price level here at home, and it is clear to note that there is less scepticism for more cables between Europe and Norway also because of the price. This may be the background to the fact that the leader of the Norwegian Industry, Stein Lier-Hansen, has expressed a positive opinion on a strengthening of the cable link with the rest of the world. If our goal is to be an energy storm power exploiting the industrial potential we have in the field of renewable energy production, increasing capacity in the international connection is a fundamental and necessary commitment, and then it is important to ensure that Statnet and others make investment in new cables to Europe as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e1993	Thanks to the interpellant for addressing an important topic. Norway is linked to Europe through our energy production. We are an energy storm power both relatively and in absolute terms in many areas. We are connected through gas pipes that export significant amounts of gas, and we are also connected through power lines and through oil tankers. All in all, this is a good thing for the nation, which is supported by the Progress Party, and I believe that we are widely agreed on in this Chamber. We export ten times more energy than we use evenly over. I want us to take good steps to continue a good and close cooperation with Europe to be their energy supplier. It's important that we use the gas infrastructure that we've invested in innumerable billions of dollars, which has a long life span. And it is important that Norway emphasises gas as part of the energy form of the future. We must not face a situation in which Norwegian policy makes gas appear less attractive, and that we thereby destroy our own gold mine. Because that's how we can be perceived in the world, when we make good and rich in producing gas, but in Norwegian companies owned by the state are now banned from being able to invest in the use of gas abroad, for example. the ban on State power has been encouraged to invest in several gas power plants in Europe. It is helping to destroy the Norwegian gas market in the future. Although this does not necessarily mean the large loss of revenue for the state that State power is not allowed to invest in gas, it will mean a lot if Europe starts to look around for other energy sources as well as other energy carriers, and other gas suppliers. I think we should remember that when, in the name of the climate, we try to be the world's best at home. The consequences can be greater than we know. But also on renewable energy, we have a great future. The European Union also has major plans. In Germany today, wind is the form of energy that has the largest installed capacity. This means that when it blows well all over Germany, they produce more wind power than they produce brown coal, nuclear power or gas power separately. This means that they have a significant power requirement when it does not blow. This presents major challenges in their energy balance, but it also poses major challenges for the whole EU system, which is increasingly to focus on wind power. This challenge will also be met by the United Kingdom if they realise the large sea wind turbines they have. It provides a good potential for Norwegian hydropower, and we should exploit it. AS Norway, to use that term, can make good money to sell hydropower when the price is high, and provide itself with cheap wind when that price is low. By using the pumping plant technique, we can fill the water reservoirs. Water is one of the best ways to make larger amounts of electricity today. That is why the idea and debate about being Europe's battery is very good. I believe that we too are reasonably in agreement in this Chamber. But I lack a more fundamental debate on how this is to be implemented in practice. Because we also know that we are working on developing other energy technologies, fortunately we can say – gas power plants that can be started up quickly, but that can keep the value of gas maintained, while the value of hydropower does not become the big we see, because, in the absence of Norway doing the necessary grips quickly enough, one builds up rather an armada of fast-starting gas power plants. Here are a lot of pieces that are not in place. We are not going to take the sorrows ahead, but there is something we need to be aware of. While we are going to debate legislation and how we are going to produce Norwegian pumping power plants as quickly as possible, we also need Norwegian consumers in mind. From the perspective of the Progress Party, hydropower is a good Norwegian industry, Norwegian business and households should benefit. I think it's difficult to get political acceptance, regardless of party colour, if Norwegian consumers see that one here uses Norwegian natural resources to fill the treasury and supply electricity to Europe, while Norwegian consumers have to pay the price. That is why we have to work forward and get an acceptance for having Europe's battery by having acceptable costs on the domestic market. This means that as we expand more export capacity to the rest of the world, we also need to expand more production capacity at home. We also need to look at how we can stimulate our supplier industry to become better at delivering technologies and services when Europe is building other renewable resources, such as sea wind turbines. There we can do a lot, but then it is important that we help them with technology development and not let them wait for us to develop wind turbines for... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2010	The Council of State has given a thorough and good account of Norway’s work and positions in relation to EU energy policy. It shows that we have a government that has an active attitude to the issues in the European Commission’s Energy Policy Communication. Norway is an important partner for the EU when it comes to chiselling out its energy and climate policies. We will use our role as an energy policy force in the European context to get good and offensive solutions to the climate and energy problems in the world. Europe must go ahead in order to get it done, and we must be drivers in order for it to happen. The more renewable energy Norway produces, the more we contribute positively to the development of the whole EU system. Norway is an energy storm power, and we still have to be. The EU's priorities include: renewable energy and offshore wind, as many have said here. As the Centre Party has taken up a number of times from this pulpit, Norway has unique opportunities through our amazing natural resources. The physical potential of sea wind is, among other things, It's huge. The centre is occupied by the unique expertise we have in hydropower, bioenergy and offshore activities. We have the best opportunities to face a win-win situation: Norwegian business development and strong participation in Europe's achievement of climate goals. We have to seize this opportunity with both hands. This is also how we build the basis that Norway is an energy storm power even after the oil ends. I would like to point out two examples of work done in Norway being possible models for others. For example, the effort to improve energy efficiency through Enova has been noted far beyond Norway. The same applies to the agreement with Sweden on a common green certification market, as also mentioned by the Council of State. This is the first time two countries are coordinating the investment in renewable electricity production through a single electricity certificate market, and this can serve as a model for more. In Europe, increasing quantities of unregulated force are now being developed. In this perspective, Norway has another advantage that we need to take care of in our efforts to influence the ongoing processes in the EU. Our hydropower is adjustable. Where the production of unregulated force is ticking and going evenly throughout the day, and if it is blown or not, we in Norway can choose to produce a lot of power during periods of the day where the need is great, and export extra loads to the rest of the world when they need it. On the contrary, we can literally turn the cranes back when consumption is low abroad, and import the power back when the rest of the world has low consumption. Norway has close energy interactions with the EU through renewable and other energy developments. The centre party is, as you know, no member of Norwegian EU membership, but we are in favour of strong international cooperation between independent states. Norway today has close cooperation with the EU in a wide range of policy areas, where the energy sector, as we see, is an important part. The challenges we face require cooperation across continents, which works well without membership of the Union. We have also shown that it is possible to reverse EU regulations that do not conform to the Norwegian perception of good resource management and societal development. The fight for the right of repatriation is a good example of this. The Central Party wants us to continue to be offensive in terms of contact with the EU, both for the benefit of the EU's achievement of climate objectives and for Norway's continued position as a power of energy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2027	First of all, I want to thank the interpellant for bringing a discussion into the Storting on how we meet the EU's new energy strategies. It's good that we get such a discussion with us too. I have listened to the Council of State and his words about having an active attitude towards the processes taking place in the EU. It is clear that we in this country pay a price to stand outside the EU and only be connected through the EEA Agreement. That means that in many ways we don't have the same opportunity to be in the process, be in the closed rooms where decisions are made. From my point of view, I would say that there is a major disadvantage in the energy sector, because Norway, which many people have been in today, is a major power in the energy sector and the EU is our most important market. The fact that we are outside the EU also means that we renounce the possibility of influencing this important market from the inside, as a membership would have done. But of course we have to deal with the fact that we are connected through an EEA agreement, and make the best of it. But it's clear – membership would give us a completely different opportunity to influence this market, which is perhaps our most important in the field of energy. The inter-pellant, as well as others, has taken up the gas and the significance of gas from an environmental point of view. With half the emissions of the coal, it is clear that, to the extent that the EU uses more natural gas, one could also contribute effectively to the reduction of climate emissions. Norway, as a major supplier of gas to Europe, competes among others. on the stability we have, the proximity to Europe, but also stability in deliveries. We have a high trustworthiness as a stable supplier of gas to Europe. The EU has the impression of Norway as a reliable and large gas supplier, it is important that they continue to have. This means that from the Norwegian side we also need to know our visit time with regard to the signals we give to the EU that we will also be a large and secure supplier in the future. Now, the Oil Directorate has recently provided adjusted figures for gas reserves on the Norwegian base, where the arrows point downwards. Unfortunately, we have a government that spreads uncertainty about what the government wants to do in future in important areas northwards in terms of oil and gas. This means that we will send some vague signals from Norway to the EU if we will continue to be a major gas supplier on the European market in the future. I would therefore urge the Minister of Oil and Energy – as far as he can – to be an active driver on behalf of Norway and the government so that we can now open up new exploration areas in the north, in attractive areas where we have to assume that there are oil and gas resources. When the EU and Russia look at the possibilities for gas transport to the south, it is also important to give a clear signal from the Minister of Oil and Energy that we want transport to take place along our coast because we want to further develop areas located in the north and on the Norwegian side. Here are some trains going and decisions taken in the near future. This means that we cannot necessarily wait for decisions about what we want in terms of oil and gas development in our northern regions, and what we want in terms of gas infrastructure in the northern regions, especially for a long time, because then we risk losing some opportunities on behalf of the energy nation of Norway. I would encourage the Minister of Oil and Energy to be active and clear on these issues vis-à-vis the EU and to assure them that Norway will be a great supplier of energy to Europe in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2044	Let me first thank you for a positive and constructive debate between all those who have participated. I also want to come back to something that the Council of State did not have the opportunity to respond to in its previous response, namely how he views the development of pumping power in Norway, what consequences it might have for the renewable directive, and what adjustments we need to make at home to realise such a potential. With regard to the Renewables Directive, it could also be interesting to hear more about when we can expect countries to land and what consequences they have for Norway. I understand that the Council of State may not be able to answer that right now, but we still hope for a clarification soon. It is also interesting in the perspective of reporting from the EU that EU Member States will fulfil their renewable directive obligations, as is currently the case. There is the question of the extent to which the Council of State believes that there will be a need for the strength that Norway wants to offer in Europe and whether any EU signals have been seen in this context. I am also very pleased that the Council of States is so positive that we are going to interact with Europe, as he expresses it. It's in contrast to what, for example. The representative, Ola Borten Moe, has expressed in many respects that we should cut the cables to the rest of the world and become an isolated power market here in Norway. I am pleased that the Council of State does not share the views of its party in this matter. So many representatives have been interested in interesting topics, the representative Lødemel, among others, on the development of the offshore network in the North Sea and the consequences it will have for the development of lines in Norway. There is a perspective I hope the Council of State will address in its next article. Then I agree with the Council when he says that there must be commercial considerations on the basis of how we develop the pipeline further for gas – it says itself. But if we are to fill our role as gas supplier to Europe at the current level, we are dependent on filling with more gas in these pipes. Then we are also dependent on clarifying what is going to happen to new fields. I hope the Council of State will arrive at the right conclusion in that matter. Now we're just followers here in this room, so then maybe the council could be so kind as to share that point of view with us now, in all confidentiality. Let me conclude by saying thank you to everyone who has taken part in the debate. It is constructive that we have this debate when the European Union has not yet made its views known. I hope that we can continue with this year's coming, after the European Union presents its perspectives, that we will also debate in this Chamber the important issues that come from Brussels.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2060	Had I understood that there were questions about Lofoten and Vesterålen that the representative Astrup raised in his previous question, I would of course answer that question and concluded on it then. But now I don't think I'm getting it, because I just got so many new questions, so at least I get to take them first. In this respect, the ‘supergrids’ and the construction of networks around Norway and between the North Sea countries, which both the representative Lødemel and several others recorded, are mentioned. What I said about the initiative taken on behalf of the North Sea countries in the last year, I am a big fan of it. So I think at the same time that we have to have two thoughts in our head at the same time here. What we mean when we talk about European supernets is a network built for other capacities, a different production, than what we're talking about today. We're going to build cables, we're going to have a power exchange between European countries, including Norway, and – I'm told – a little independent of it – in the future, but there are other levels, other sizes we're discussing. So when we talk about this big supernet, it's something that's primarily related to the big expansion of offshore wind. Then we get, as the representative Olsen was in the right place, production that is at a different level than what we are talking about today, and it has to be handled then. Then the representative Meling was concerned about and encouraged to have different positions, EU action patterns. When it comes to notifying the EU that Norway will be a stable supplier of oil and gas in the future – especially gas – I am quite clear. I mentioned this, among other things. in the meeting with a representative of the Belgian Government earlier today, and that was one of the issues. My message was that Norway should be a safe and reliable supplier of gas to the European market in the future. I still have the pleasure of hearing from our friends in other European countries who suggest that this is not a perceived message – that Norway is not being seen as a safe, solid and proper gas supplier. Norwegian gas production we have ambitions to keep up with today's level, and to increase in the future. It is also something I communicate to my colleagues from EU countries. That's the way it is – despite what the representative Meling said – that we have actually opened up new areas. Now we've started an opening process around Jan Mayen. It's getting very long since the last time a government did something similar. I am pleased that we have done so, and I believe that, in combination with what is done in Iceland and what is done in Greenland, an initiative – in and on several initiatives – is now taking on the opportunities that lie in these areas. It is important that we all communicate it as part of an offensive policy on the part of Norway, including in that part of the energy field.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2071	The debate on substance is closed. 6 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2087	In view of the previous debate: if the Council of State prefers to give itself to the government with regard to the Lofoten and the Vestral, he will be allowed to use all his speaking time in this debate without getting criticism from the undersigned! [[Laughter]] He's a friend of the audience today. The theme I'm addressing is the power situation. Governments announced that 2011 would probably be worse than 2010. He did that last winter. I shared, and shared, this perception of reality, and thought we had to use the time until 2011 to at least do what we could to avoid both a crisis and to get remedial measures in place so that any crisis became as painful as possible. Unfortunately, the Council of State got right in its expectations. I will not say in any way that he wants the situation today, but it is nevertheless a consequence of the policy that has been pursued – not just by this government and not just by this Council of States – over a long time in Norway. We have a Prime Minister who has both ruled out gas power in line with other countries, who has also excluded major hydroelectric expansions and who was Minister of Energy in 1995 when a power deficit was predicted. So today's prime minister is really the one who has had the most finger in the game we unfortunately see now. Power prices have gone down, and there's a lot of attention around this in the media. Many predict that the electricity bill will be €2,000 to $4,000 higher for people with average consumption. We have also seen that the head of emergency in More and Romesdal has gone out in the media and been very worried and wanted all sorts of measures to be taken, from shutting down industry to starting up the mobile gas power plants, because, as he says, rationing is something one will avoid at all costs. I agree with him. It's a paradox that we in Norway, where we almost don't even dare to discuss nuclear power, except for a couple of parties, sit at the same time begging the Swedes to run their nuclear power plants as fast as possible and as much as possible. There is a paradox in Norwegian energy policy that is difficult to explain. Unfortunately, I must say, the government seems relatively poorly prepared for this situation despite the Minister of Energy's warnings a year ago. I think that's actually a little special, because the Minister of Energy was very clear in a power debate we had last winter. When one reads the 2011 national budget, one sees that the government writes that it estimates that the current prices in 2011 will remain virtually unchanged compared to 2010. So one doesn't see any signs of price increase. It is quite special, all the time the State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, SVs Roger Schjerva, in the NRK Dagsrevyen last week was out and said the municipalities had to understand and expect that the electricity prices this year would be higher than last year. Therefore, they could not expect an extended hand from the government, given that they were given a tighter municipal economy with higher electricity prices. It is a little strange that the government, or at least the government, says that municipalities should have better analytical tools than the government itself provides in the national budget. The government has just made a proposal to increase the housing allowance by NOK 2 500. One suggested strengthening Enova. This is good. These are measures that have been put in place after I delivered an interpellation. The government shall be in favour of it. At the same time, however, it confirms that the government did not expect this situation to arise and that one did not have it under control, because both Enova support and housing support were a theme when the state budget was discussed and in proposals discussed in the Stortinget on 16 December – and the government parties voted against it. It's very good to turn around, but it shows that one didn't predict the situation the same way the opposition parties did. Related to this, the Minister of Energy has also made some announcements this past week. One has accelerated the projects around the AMS, or two-way communication, automatic meter reading. That's very good. It was also announced by the Bondevik government in its crisis package in 2003–2004. We are very pleased that it has been accelerated after being exposed several times. What is still a point is that calculations made by Fjordkraft or presented by Fjordkraft at least show that with current electricity prices in Norway, with the daily price variations, an average household would save 45 kroner a year on two-way communication. It does not give the great incentive to wash clothes at night instead of by day if the saving is barely a penny a week. Therefore, we should not have too much hope that this will solve any situation, even if it gives an important price signal to consumers. Playbacks about monthly billing, which has also received a lot of attention, are kind of nice for people who can't manage their economy. But it's not an improvement in the economy of private households, because the electricity bill is not going to be lower overall. And we're going to remember that almost every industry in this country can pay a fee to defer its payment. Many would like to pay 250 kroner to avoid paying for their furniture purchase in the next nine months. What the government is doing is forcing people to get less free credit. Now you're not going to get a credit of up to two months for the stream you buy, but a maximum of one month. It's okay for those who can't control the economy, but it's actually worse for those private households that can manage it. So this really isn't much to brag about. So I'm also going to give the government credit that it has now decided to submit an energy message. We have had a debate on this before, but when this interpellation was taken up, the government was in favour of an energy message. Now it's too, and it's good for the long-term measures that are needed. I'm not going to go any closer to them, but to be able to do something in the shorter term to remedy the effects. Housing is good, but that's not enough. Very many households, usually single pensioners with paid houses, but not necessarily with very good cash flow, will not be able to qualify for the housing support scheme. Here an electricity tax reduction will be a contribution, even if it will not compensate for the price increases they experience. Therefore, the Spring Party has proposed the use of the electricity charge. I remember that the electricity charge does not cover the entire Norwegian market, and that the Norwegian market is only a small part of the Nordic market. When government parties try to say that an electricity tax reduction will result in a similar price increase in electricity, they have the burden of proof on their side. So as long as the price elasticity of the current is at -0.4, it's a very small response. The next point concerns the municipalities. I would like to hear how the government views this fact that we are now experiencing a cut in the service offer in the municipalities. When Roger Schjerva, State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, says that this should have been foreseen by the municipalities, my question to the government is: How can the municipalities predict something that the government has not foreseen? A good response to this is to be met. I'm recording that the government thinks shutting down industry is better for society than starting up power plants that are not in use today. I would like to hear what kind of thinking underpins this government's priority when it comes to helping to improve the power supply in the country. This must mean that, in general terms, the companies that shut down do not make a very large socio-economic contribution – when it is actually better to close them than to start power generation. I would also like to challenge the government in terms of turbine number. 2 in the CHP plant in Mongstad, which is not currently in use, but which could have been started. What has the government done to bring it into use, given that the force balance is as tight as it is? The mobile gas power plants will not be included in this debate, they belong to the industry, but the Council of State is well aware of the views of the Progress Party on this. We believe these should have been used at a long earlier time, to help rationalize the water. When there's water we're missing in the warehouses, it's more logical to use the gas, which we have more than enough of, than to continue pumping out water to save on the gas. The themes I have mentioned are not in themselves a definitive solution to any problem. Many of them are more to call the anesthetic of the consequences of a misguided policy than they solve some long-term problems. And that's absolutely true: there's very few, if any, quick fix on today's problems. And that doesn't help us getting on a line with slow fix. I remind you that the scheme of green certificates was suspended. Wind power target was cancelled. In the case of gas power stations in central Norway, all four projects have either been cancelled or are unrealised. It is very gratifying what Industrialkraft Møre joined in the evening post today, that one with Siemens can launch and build a full-scale gas power plant with full-scale cleaning, but that some clarifications from the government are needed. I don't want to challenge the government to come up with these solutions today, but I hope one looks at this with open eyes and with a positive attitude, so that both Norwegian gas and more hydropower can be used in Norway, and that the other new renewable energy sources can be used – in view of a long-term solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2125	The power situation and the power prices we experience are challenging for both households and businesses. There is no doubt that prices in December last year were unacceptablely high, with variations between parts of the country. My goal is to get a similar and predictable electricity price across the country. That is why the objective of a stable supply of power is at the heart of energy policy. It is fundamental for Norwegian power supply to close to 100 pst. of all power generation is from hydropower. Hydropower provides us with a unique access to clean renewable energy, but temperature, rainfall and reluctance can vary from year to year, and thus also hydropower generation. The system also means that the price of electricity varies between seasons and years. Usually the price is low in summer and higher in winter. About 4 TWh more electricity was produced in Norway in the winter of 2009–2010 — from November to February — than the average over the previous five years. This must be seen in the context of very cold weather and the unexpected out-of-service operation of large parts of Swedish nuclear power generation. Combined with little snow in the mountains and a dry spring this led to the magazines having a worse starting point for winter 2010 than previous years. The whole of 2010 was the coldest year in 70 years. The net intention in 2010 was 100 TWh. This is 23 TWh less than normal. 100 TWh represents approx. Three-quarters of annual consumption in Norway — only three-quarters — I could add. The solution to the severe power situation we are experiencing now needs to be found in measures in the long, medium and short term. In the short term, I would like to mention briefly the household subsidy scheme, which the government has strengthened by 70 million. kr extra in 2011. The scheme is managed by Enova and is targeted at measures limiting the dependence of electricity on heating. These are good measures aimed at individual households. This exceptional allocation almost triples the investment in this area in 2011. I would particularly encourage people in areas with a strenuous power situation to apply for funding from this scheme. On 17 December the Council of State decided to exempt Statnett from the conditions of the works concessions for the use of the mobile gas-fired back-up power plants on the Tjeldbergodden and in Nyhamna. At the same time, the emission permits were temporarily amended. Both decisions apply for the weeks 1 to 20 in 2011. The dispensation and the temporary amendment of the emission permits allow installations to also be put into service in the event of any faults and in difficult operational situations, thereby helping to counteract the coercive elimination of consumption. This is therefore an important measure for security of supply in the area. I know that many people are worried about the current bill that comes in these days. I have previously encouraged the power suppliers to be helpful to customers who want to split their bills. I agree with the representative of Solvik-Olsen that there will be no lower costs of this, overall, but I know that many suppliers offer this and believe that it helps all customers get a better overview of their electricity costs in periods of great fluctuations. The government has also proposed an extra payment of state housing aid. The matter has been referred to the Stortinget. We know that a family of five will be paid NOK 2 900 more. That payment will come at the beginning of March. I believe that it is a targeted measure that households with a tight economy will both enjoy and actually benefit from. In addition to this, I have also made sure to speed up the process of introducing the AMS. I'll ask the NVE to demand that 80 pst. consumers in Central Norway shall have the AMS installed by the end of 2013 and 80 pst. in other countries by the end of 2015. I have great faith that intelligent current meters and conscious consumers will provide lower energy consumption without going at the expense of comfort. This is a good response both for consumers and for society as a whole. Action in the short term is important, but in order to achieve the long-term improvements and achieve the goal of an equal, predictable electricity price across the country, we also need longer-term measures: Network development, new production and energy efficiency are the answers. We're doing more than good in all of these areas. For the period 2006 to 2011, the government has cut close to 9 billion. kr to bet through Enova. That's what results are. From 2006 to 2009, grants were granted to projects with an expected energy performance of a total of 8.3 TWh per year. Domestic energy efficiency and energy conversion are very good, thus contributing to a better energy balance and reducing dependence on electricity. There is also a lot on the production side. We're going to create a common electricity certificate market with Sweden. During the period we have left behind, 2006-2009, projects with expected production of about 6 TWh per year were authorised, almost twice as much as in the previous period. I would also like to point out that we are now seeing results of the concession treatment of small-scale power. In 2010, NVE decided 101 cases, such as: is a quadruple compared to six years earlier. But what's even more important than being granted concession to many projects is that there are many that are in operation. In the period 2006-2009, projects with an expected production of 3,5 TWh per year were put into operation. Network development is the main measure to reduce large and long-term price differences and ensure that all regions of the country have satisfactory security of supply. Statnett is planning to invest for 40 billion. kr for the development and upgrade of new power grid in Norway by 2020. There are big bets, and there are bets that are going to mean a difference. Hydropower resources are unevenly distributed between the regions of the country and are also not located near the main consumption centres. This makes it particularly necessary to have a robust and well-structured power grid. Power generation also varies from year to year, depending on what I thought, which I had done in the past. Through the transmission links both internally in Norway and out of the country, we reduce the vulnerability of the power system to these variations. We've learned that grid expansions, especially the larger lines, can be controversial. I understand that there is a great deal of attention to the local environmental impacts of network deployments, but all energy use has environmental consequences. I believe quite clearly that if we are to have satisfactory security of supply and achieve our ambitious renewable and climate targets, we must also accept intervention in our country, in order to say it in a simple way, linked to the development of renewable energy. It does not help to buy a new car if there are no roads to drive the car on. The state network now assesses the power situation in large parts of Norway as tight. The Nordic countries and large parts of Norway are dependent on imports of force. We are therefore more vulnerable to faults in Nordic power plants and transmission systems than usual, but the likelihood that the power situation during winter is likely to result in major problems is not considered as high. According to Statnett, it's a probability of rationing between 5 and 20 pst. from Trondelag and southwards and less than 5 pst. the likelihood of rationalisation in North Norway. Statnet has a number of tools to deal with strenuous power situations. In normal operating situations, Statnett may include, inter alia: establish new price ranges, cancel audits, launch information campaigns, disconnect boilers, operate the network with reduced operational security and specialise in production to ensure full import or to save water in particularly important power plants. If a very strained force situation, called SACK, should occur, with more than 50 pst. risk of rationalisation, Statnet may also redeem energy options and put back-up power plants into operation. In the summer, Statnet went to purchase energy options in consumption. The power that can be made available through the redemption of these agreements is 600 MW, with a total energy volume of 1100 GWh. The majority of these agreements are in central Norway and the West. This is a significantly larger volume than last winter, when Statnet had energy option agreements of 164 MW. In the year that we've been behind us, we've put in place a lot of milestones in energy policy. Then we will continue to work on it and at the same time start working on an energy message that will be submitted to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2184	In the summer and early autumn of 2006, there was a power situation in Norway similar to the one we have today. It came very early. Power prices were over 75 kWh. Then the Center Party Ola Borten Moe went out and recommended people to tie the power price. I hope and believe that most people didn't – fortunately. The center party had more headlines in the media that they took the situation seriously. In the class struggle on 24 August 2006, the representative Ola Borten Moe said that the power crisis was a major challenge and that it was an important theme to be addressed at the Central Party National Government Meeting. The solutions were more net, more power and more enok. Then we stand here a few years later, and that's the same message from the government. A boast of what Enova has got from money, and that they have done a lot, but the situation is now worse than it was five and a half years ago. I think that is significant enough – the government talks too much and has done too little. Yes, windmills have been built out, yes, it has been built out of small power – but far from in the dimensions that you need. At the same time, the big projects that would give volume, and that had actually had a much greater effect, more or less, have been mocked. Gas power plants, in the case of large hydropower, and many wind power projects in this country. I remember that for over ten years, we had a wind energy target of 3 TWh, where one has come in a third. Housing support and Enova are good things in themselves, but it's too limited in scope. I am disappointed that the council has nothing more to pull out of his sleeve than what he had. In the case of mobile gas power plants, one also used last year the change in the concession rules that one now boasts. This does not mean that the criteria for putting them into service have changed. Last year they were not put into service, despite the price peaks we saw, and the situation that then caused the Minister of Energy to worry. I remember that if we had started the mobile gas power plants we've been operating for a year, it would be a power generation of 2.6 TWh. It is more than net imports to Norway in the last six months. There is one third of net imports into Norway in the last 12 months. So it's a significant contribution that could have made us have more water in the magazines, and made the head of emergency in More and Romesdal have been able to sleep a little bit better. Enova's large capital stock is something that all the parties on the Stortinget have voted in favour of. Let's stress that this isn't because we thought of it as an optimal solution. It's because it was a means of crisis after the government itself ransacked the green certificates, because some parties in the government couldn't tolerate more hydropower in a certification system. That's why we got an uneven burden distribution. I am pleased that Statnett has large investment plans, but I remember that in the last four years they have asked for capital injections three times and received no three times. I hope the government is more offensive next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2201	I perceive that the representative Solvik-Olsen sees him hearing the same message repeatedly. This is true in itself, for there are not so many secrets related to the power balance in Norway as they are in other countries. I'm always going to answer the same thing. It's about networks, it's about production, it's about energy efficiency. Then I hear between the lines that also the representative Solvik-Olsen sees that more is happening in the area now, sail if the representative thinks it should happen more. But my obvious message in this area is that we're doing what should have been done earlier, but that's going to mean a difference, online, through the bet that Statnet is now doing well. In production, we are now spending more money through Enova, and we have also negotiated an agreement with Sweden on 26.4 TWh in our two countries. In terms of energy efficiency, we also have results to point to that on a completely different path than we've seen in the past. If we agree on what are the three important areas to work with, I also think we need to get together that there are important things happening in all areas. The representative then draws out the wind energy target as an example that not as much has happened in this area as you would like. There I want to say two things. Firstly, I think it was quite right for Enova to take a foot in the ground when the cost explosion came within this sector. The figures we saw for costs related to the construction of wind turbines in Norway for approx. two years ago, there were no sustainable figures for profitable wind power generation in Norway over time. Enova went into the individual projects, worked purposefully to look at the possibilities of cost reduction, and I believe that we have now begun to see fruits. But we also need to focus on the cost side of building renewable energy, if one is to succeed in the long run. That's the one. The second is that Enova assessed the wind energy target against Enova’s overall target for the period. It means that it's not that not building out a windmill means that there's no similar thing in the energy field in this period. On the contrary, Enova has said that they have managed to achieve a more precise overall target, a higher total supply, in the energy field, by spending the money they have, on energy efficiency improvement, on heat and also on technology development. So one can't pick out the wind bet as one element from the total bet in the last few years and assuming that one hasn't gotten production into the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2210	The current situation in winter is challenging. There is little water in the warehouses, and winter has been a record call. We've had two dry years and two cold winters in a row. In addition, the situation with Swedish nuclear power last winter has caused us to enter this winter season with a poor starting point. These problems are a result of that close to 100 pst. the force in Norway is based on hydropower. This year, this has given us higher prices. Historically, hydropower has given us low prices in European contexts and the basis for both industrial and job development. That's how it works, among other things. There are three groups of measures that need to be taken to get us out of this situation — and there are several that have been involved in this today. We have to produce more power. We need to upgrade and strengthen the transmission system for electricity. We need to bet on an increment measure to use less power and use the current smarter. The government has doubled its efforts in all these areas. We have significantly strengthened the commitment to renewable energy since we took over in 2005. The agreement with Sweden on green certificates will further strengthen efforts here. In total, Norway and Sweden shall deploy 26.4 TWh new renewable energy in Norway. This means that in Norway it is about 13.2 TWh. This will contribute very positively to the power market. The government has doubled the processing capacity of the NVE. It will also provide for shorter process times for applications for the construction of renewable energy. The NVE prioritises in its treatment areas where there is a shortage of power, such as, among other things, Middle Norway. Statnett has a good network development plan. It is important to put in place the necessary lines to balance the price in Norway and to enable new power generation to be developed. The power must be shifted from production site to consumption and the power must be able to flow between areas when consumption and need varies. From 2006 to 2011, the government has supported the work on new production and renewable energy and energy saving through Enova by over 8.9 billion. kr. Between 2006 and 2009, Enova has granted grants to projects which would have a total impact of 8.3 TWh per year. I am also very pleased that the government has decided to strengthen the Enova grant scheme for household projects of 70 million. kr extra in 2011. The government has also announced an increase in the housing stock with a total of 318.5 million. kr. This measure will provide an additional payment to 125 000 beneficiaries of housing aid. A family of five will be able to pay approx. $2,900, and as the council said, the payout comes at the beginning of March, and it's very positive. I'm sure there's a lot of people who think this is good. In this context, it is also important to bring forward the industrial power guarantee system. It's starting to produce effects now, and it's joyous. It is important that industry ensures viable framework conditions. I think, among other things: on the two contracts concluded, inter alia: with Norwegian Forest and Finnfjord Smelteverk. I also dare to remind you that if it had been up to the Bondevik II administration, we would not have had such a power regime in place. I also think you should take that on board. Together, measures undertaken and implemented by the government over these years will help to improve the situation in the power market. It will also provide more stable prices for consumers. Now that we have all these measures in place, it is very good that we here at Stortinget have the opportunity to discuss the long lines of energy policy, as the Council of State has said earlier. The government's announced energy message and energy investigation will provide this opportunity. The government's efforts in energy policy are good. The initiative will improve the situation both for industry and for ordinary consumers. It's just that things take time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2231	The state council's pronounced fear of an even more challenging situation in the power market in the winter 2010–2011 appears to be greater than he and the government and many others have hoped and wanted. The bill for lack of political power is now paid by businessmen and private individuals. In particular, this is burdensome for those at the bottom of the community's table. We know that instead of getting out of poverty with the help of the red-green government, there have only been several poor people in the last six and a half years that this government has ruled. With the power of a plurality, this government has had the ability of time to act, but instead it seems that this government has had so great internal struggles in many cases that it completely paralyzes the power of action given. It's also a paradox that the Nordics have had power shortages for two years and are afraid of Russian nuclear power. It's not going to be very high. For the previous year, the current was lost in a collection of over 16.2 TWh in the Nordic region. It gives us a simple fasit. Without Russian nuclear power, there would be a power crisis. So it's okay with Russian nuclear power, but not with Norwegian gas power. It is possible that the claim of a Swedish politician that Norway is among the last Communist countries is wrong, but at least we are dependent on their power production, as our political leadership has stated. That we are dependent on Swedish nuclear power was also the representative of Solvik-Olsen within. We recently visited IFE Halden and got a presentation of what they were working on. They're researching, among other things. to security when it comes to nuclear power, and in particular it is worth noting that during this government the concession time of their ten-year-olds has been reduced to six years. It's striking that that can happen when we're so addicted to this kind of work that they're running, and it's about security. What does it take to get electricity prices that the rest of Europe envys us, again? Now, despite all of our water resources, we pay a price far above the European one. We might be able to listen to the proposal of the power plant manager of Statkraft, Ole Christian Povenius, who is taking the order to open up to use several peaceful watercourses for hydropower. If the world's existence is at risk because of global warming, it would not be too much to ask for, especially when we also know of several good proposals where intervention in protected areas would hardly be visible and new technologies could be used, or we say yes to conventional gas power plants instead of importing electricity from European coal plants. Many other measures could be mentioned, but many of these do not look at getting power accounting more often like a columbi egg, as one might get the impression from the political leadership of the Oil and Energy Department. The electricity is not becoming cheaper for the consumer with such measures, but it well illustrates the action of this government. Elles was all the representatives from More and Romesdal gathered in Molde recently. There was a great deal of concern about the water reservoir and the water level there. Changing the concession terms of the mobile gas plants did not remove this issue. Even with a record low water level, the mobile gas power plants would not be started until the water level was significantly lower. With an indication that it would end before week 16-17, which is the time of the year with the lowest amount of water in the magazine, and one that year was down on a record level, there was no signal to start these up. The deputy manager and the head of emergency called for warning and was supposed to meet NVE the next few days. The image in More and Romesdal is also such that one of the major power consumers, Norsk Hydro, has shut down significant parts of its consumption. At the same time, we know that Industrikraft Møre is ready to start his plant, if they are allowed to do so. But there's the demand for purification. The question is whether they will be cleared, as indicated in a notice today in the Evening Post. Are there any measures that can accept this purified CO2 that are drawn from the exhaust gas?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2251	I would first like to thank the interpellant for raising this topic to discussion. We have great sympathy from the Right with all the individuals who now have to pay a high electricity bill, and who have problems with this. We are therefore pleased that the government is now signalling increased housing support to vulnerable groups. In addition to individuals facing major challenges, it is clear that industry and our industry are doing the same in some parts of Norway. Having a security of supply uncertainty and meeting a high price level – insofar as it is necessary to negotiate new power supplies – is clear that providing our industry with additional challenges in its functioning. So having a focus on enough energy production and a predictable and competitive price level is clearly an important task, from the Right. Having options to shut down industry is good to ensure security of supply. However, it is clear that for the industrial enterprises concerned, it also has an expense to stop producing for a period of time and might be less active in a market – usually a global market – which often requires the presence of daily labour market maintenance. The measures outlined by the Council of State are obvious. Both securing the infrastructure, i.e. expanding more networks, building more energy and focusing on energy efficiency are all three obvious areas of activity that are also at the right. Obviously, reducing our vulnerability is what it's all about. We have to make sure that we have a more differentiated energy production than what we have today. We're too dependent on rainfall. We need to strengthen our energy production in other areas, which makes us less vulnerable and dependent on rainfall. The putting into service of gas has been mentioned by several. That's also a point of view that we're on the right-hand side of the equation. We are also committed to meeting our climate obligations in order to facilitate clean-up. We still hope that the government will support the initiatives that have now come, to move the cleaning project out of Mongstad to get it realized sooner and perhaps to a fairer money. It is important, not only to provide energy to the country, but also to bring about technologies that are also applicable beyond Norway’s borders, in connection with the cleaning of gas power plants. Offshore wind is probably ahead of time to be commercially available. But I hope that we can focus on the opportunities that this offers, through technology development and research in this area. It's clear that here we will also have a potential that is independent of our hydropower production. I am pleased that the government has finally begun to roll out automatic current measuring systems in central Norway. We have called for a faster progress plan in this area from the Right, and I am pleased that, at least, it is now beginning in Central Norway, and that the Council of State is making visible in today's debate an ambition that the rest of the country will have access to this by 2015. Finally, if we are to get more energy, it is important that the NVE is able to have an effective process of dealing with all the applications that come there. I am aware that the case handling capacity has doubled, as the representative Stroem was also involved. However, it is too long when, among other things, small-scale power stations must wait in line for more than five years in order to receive concession treatment of their applications. So I hope that the Council of State can help turn all the stones in view of the demands made on applications and on the concessional treatment itself, so that it will not be an obstacle to getting more energy, as it actually is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2268	First, I have to say that there is a rare government that gets so much brilliance in an interpellation debate. It's a happy sign, isn't it? It's actually lowering the polemic level in the debate, but it gives more sense of meaningful exchange, and I think that's good. When the magazine filling goes down to 40 pst. early in January, it is far below the median for the last 20 years. That is why we in SV agree with LO and Roar Flöthen that we need to assess in the future whether there is a need to impose stricter requirements to keep water in the warehouses in order to avoid their emptying. It is especially important when we have several such years in a row. Then we must not forget that Norway is a net exporter of power in most years, and in the future, the surplus of power – at least that’s what we’re making of our work – will be greater over time. That is why we are now talking about measures to avoid the major fluctuations and increases when it is cold in winter, that we should consider holding back more water when we have already had a cold winter and therefore, initially, are worse off and other measures. At the same time, several proposals have been launched with the same objective, which will give incentives to power companies to keep sufficient water in their warehouses to cope with cold winters, and not challenge security of supply. That's why it's very positive that the Council of States agrees that we need to go through the experiences of two consecutive cold winters and look at how the systems work, and whether it can be improved. I think so. There is also reason to point out that the government is setting up a separate energy selection, which will assess the energy and power balance by 2030 and 2050 in 2011. The main problem for the Progress Party, which has promoted this debate, is that they want to have a free market in principle. They've gotten it far on their way just as they would, through the Energy Act. Supply and demand shall regulate prices. It was precisely what made investment dry both in terms of grid deployment and in terms of rational renewable energy projects. In fact, it went so far that the debate on the Energy Act in the early 1990s stated that Norway has an too well-developed distribution network for electricity. There are positive things about the Energy Act, but a major problem with it is that it has not contributed to the development of the network, nor to production. There must be an active policy for that. The oil and energy minister has done well to ensure that this government has invested a great deal and will invest even more in the future to expand renewable energy, develop the power grids and invest in energy savings. We'll get green certificates, and we'll get new terawatt hours in the power grids in the next few years. This government has provided state power with 14 state-owned, fresh billions so that the company can invest over 80 billion. renewable energy in the next few years. Then we have the decision to provide for the roll-out of automatic current meters in Middle Norway, for which Meling's representative was pleased. I'm very happy about that, too. I talked a lot about that together with many at the Trøndelag meeting a week ago, and just two days later the government had taken hold and brought the happy news. I don't think I'm going to take all the credit for it alone, even though I see that the Council of State is nodding voice. But this is a very important measure. Just a week ago, I was visiting Malvik Everk, the only company in the country that offers smart power-saving systems for two-way communications. They demonstrate, in cooperation with studies conducted by SINTEF, a completely different potential from that of the Solvik-Olsen representative trying to depreciate it. This is not just about washing clothes at night. It's not about people having to sit and see what the power costs, and then act on it. It is mainly about more smart management systems that ensure that customers do not do it all the time. There's a huge potential. For example, if the majority of only one dwelling and rowhouses in Trøndelag disconnect the hot water tank at the same time in the morning, when consumption is highest – there are measures that will not be noticed on the comfort of consumers – that is equivalent to the double of the effect of the mobile gas power plants in Central Norway. We have huge power reserves in stock in terms of energy saving, if we get smart systems in place. The potential of dwellings and buildings is actually to reduce 20 pst. of energy consumption by 2020. It corresponds to three Kårstø power stations and halves the energy consumption by 2040. It's eleven-twelve Kårstø power station. Industry can save and recover 27 TWh energy. It equals 40 Alta power plants. Anyone who thus does not see the enormous political potential of saving energy is quite blind or feeble. This is also about something that I think we disagree with the Progress Party about, namely that it is smarter to release electricity for electrification of the car fleet, of the base and to the lightning train, which I believe very much, and in which the representative Solvik-Olsen does not believe anything. It's smarter to use power for it than to use it for heating houses. Then I see that I've spent my speaking time, even though I'm only halfway in a script. But I see that the president has no intention of having any understanding of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2289	No, I don't think she has it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2292	The aim of the Centre Party is to achieve a similar and predictable electricity price across the country, and, as the Council of State said, the objective of a stable power supply is central to energy policy. It will be the case that many measures need to be taken at the same time to achieve this. It will be about network deployment to provide a good and fully needed flow of electricity between the different parts of the country – from surplus areas to deficit areas, from large-scale production areas to high-consumption areas – and to bring new renewable energy to consumers. This requires both upgrading existing lines and the creation of new ones. In the Center Party we are well aware that this can be controversial, but we believe it is absolutely necessary to ensure stable power supply in all parts of the country. Now work on the lines Ørskog-Fardal, Sima-Zomnanger, and Statnett has applied for a concession for the construction of 420 kV power lines between Balsfjord and Hammerfest. The centre party believes this is an important step in ensuring the stability of the power supply. Investment in the construction of new renewable energy to ensure enough environmentally friendly input into the network is also crucial. It is gratifying for the Centre Party that the stimulus given to the development of such energy and the efficiency of concessional treatment in NVE, together with regional concessional coordination, have led to almost a double of permits in the last four years, and that these have an expected production of approx. 6 TWh per year - no negligible amount. The rate continues to increase, and the NVE decided four times as many cases in 2010 as in 2004. The third area that is important will be an increasingly efficient use of energy. Enova plays a very central role here. In the last five years, the government has spent almost 9 billion dollars. kr, as the Council of State also mentioned, just to bet through Enova. Projects with grants from them will have an expected energy output of more than 8 TWh per year. For all three areas, this is a long-term work that the Centre Party is concerned with continuously working on. At the same time, it is important that we have systems that ensure the worst for those affected, when we get very high electricity prices due to abnormal situations, such as in winter. The extra payment to all beneficiaries of state housing, as the government today promoted for the Storting, is an important example of this. It is also important that we ensure security of supply when supplies are as tight as they are now, as the government has done through the derogation granted to Statnet from the conditions of the installation concessions for the use of the mobile gas-fired back-up power plants for the first 20 weeks of 2011. An important step that has been mentioned by several was also to start work on introducing the AMS, starting in central Norway. However, the importance for the future, as the Council of State also emphasised, will be to keep the pressure on the development of renewable energy, distribution through an increasingly improved grid, and the use of energy is increasingly being made more efficient. In this way, we can more effectively avoid such situations in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2319	At the beginning of 2011, the power situation in Norway was more severe than in many years. A dry and cold winter can provide Norway with the most challenging power situation in a very long time. According to Statnett, low rainfall, high power consumption and water storage stations that never got back after last winter are the main cause of the strained situation. In December 2010, the water level in Norwegian water storage plants was 20 percentage points lower than in an average year. No such low water level has been recorded in Norwegian water storage plants at this time of the year of 20 years. Normal rainfall and temperature may take two years before water storage levels are normalised again. Then maybe the council can repeat some of the posts he had earlier in this room, in two years with normal temperature and normal rainfall. The strenuous power situation combined with high consumption has resulted in record electricity prices. Current estimates for the last part of 2010 are the highest. The bill for too many power customers will be up to 50 pst. higher than at the same time last year. The Christian People's Party promoted housing support in its alternative budget for 2011. We also made proposals to increase the appropriations for Enova. These are proposals that the Christian People's Party believes are in place. In the winter 2002–03, Norway experienced a similar supply situation with low magazine filling and high electricity prices. The current Minister of Oil and Energy Einar Steensnæs had to endure harsh criticism in the Stortinget and in the media too high electricity prices. The centre party led in this criticism, and promoted a proposal in Stortinget on stronger regulation of hydroelectric power stations with the introduction of minimum requirements for filling in warehouses. After the red-green government took over, little has been done to prevent the reoccurrence of the 2003 power crisis. One of the most important long-term measures from 2003 has been strongly exposed. Green certificates apply. These should have been in place on 1 January 2006, but will not be in place until 1 January 2012, after the government said no to the Swedes in 2006. In 2003, it was too long to wait until 2006 for the current government parties. Then we had to introduce green certificates from 1 January 2005. New power lines to Bergen and Middle Norway, of which the Bondevik II government started planning, were for treatment in the Oil and Energy Ministry throughout the previous metropolitan period. We have seen little about the opposition's creative proposals from 2003. Einar Steensnæs was also the last state council to provide an energy message to the Stortinget. The Christian People’s Party has therefore promoted a proposal for a representative asking for a plan to ensure security of supply for electricity during this year, 2011 and to prevent future power crises. The government of oil and energy minister Terje Riis-Johansen is launching an energy message in 2013. It's ten years after the last energy message. I could imagine challenging the Council of State on how he looks at the Centre Party's own proposal of 2003 on stronger regulation of hydroelectric power stations with the introduction of minimum requirements for the filling of warehouses, as the LO Chief Roar Flåthen has mentioned, and which the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen also spoke of earlier in this debate. The situation today is almost identical to that in 2003, when the proposal of the Central Party was promoted. I would also like to hear the Council of State's assessments of other short-term measures, such as: the establishment of an insurance scheme for end-users if the warehouses are empty and rationalisation must be implemented. Such a scheme may be set up in the same way as the KILE scheme, which obliges the network owners to pay the value of the loss of electricity that is not delivered due to network failures. I would also like to hear the Council of State assessment of establishing a system for the purchase by the State of energy supply options at the end of the bottle-up season from the power producers in addition to, as today, larger electricity consumers. I could also imagine hearing the thoughts of the Council of State on fiscal measures that can counteract magazine emptying, for example. the introduction of maximum prices for the calculation of the basic interest income in exceptional situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2347	The representative Serigstad Valen thought it was fun that the government got a little more boast in this debate than usual, and the government deserves to boast when it turns into politics. It is very good that the government is now in favour of a housing support scheme they voted against in November. It is good that the government gave more money to Enova, which it said was not necessary on December 16. It is good that the government should now present an energy message, which the government had to submit on 3 December last year. That's what it deserves. As you can see, it is also good that the government now says that they should provide two-way communication on current measurement. Then it is produced that this is being pushed forward to 2013 by this government. Yes, it's a push over the target, which was 2018. But this government deliberately postponed this before they now push it back again, so we're almost back on the spot resting. The problem is that much of what we boast about now is what we also heard about in 2005-2006. The representative, Børge Brende, promoted a debate on the power situation in Middle Norway in November 2005. There was no way how much this government was going to do in the next few years. Here we stand in a debate five and a half years later and hear exactly the same visions of what to do. Then the representative also boasts Power of what the government has done. Yes, something has been done by the government, but very much has been done. It is worth noting when the leader of the Small Forces Association, Trond Ryslett, says that what is now happening in the small power industry is happening despite and not because of the government. Then you can just imagine how many possibilities and how much potential you've missed because the government's been arguing between you. It's a little special when today's energy minister will hardly admit that there have been two councillors before him. It's a little special when the representative Snorre Serigstad Valen talks like he's the first SV representative to sit on the Energy and Environment Committee in a red-green government period. When he starts discussing magazine filling, it's exactly the same things that were highlighted by the government parties in 2006, that we should look at this. In fact, the government has made an evaluation of the energy law in terms of magazine filling, and the government said in the bill to the Stortinget that the review indicated that there was no need for change. But now, suddenly, it appears that this government is going to take great action and evaluate this. It's been evaluated. Governments said no. If the government believes that there is reason to look at it, of course there is something we want to welcome. But it will be especially to present it as offensive when the government has already rejected it. Two-way communication is good. All the games are for that, but we should have seen it implemented a long time ago. But the government has so far said that this was technologically difficult, and therefore one should do so only in 2018. At least the industry doesn't understand why it was supposed to do it now in 2013, but the government would like to find something that the industry doesn't have. But to present it as if this is a huge energy saving measure: firing hot water heaters at night instead of in the morning doesn't mean you're saving electricity. It just distorts what time you're using it. And that's what it's done calculations on. With today's hourly differences during the day, you save 45 kroner a year on it – less than one dollar a week. That's what the consumer has to enjoy. Other measures are much more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2360	First to the representative, Mr. Hemdal, who said, at least after what I noticed, that the major power lines had been in the department – as far as I was aware – for years. That's wrong. Neither Ørskog–Fardal nor Sima–Samnanger has been in the oil and energy department for many years, as we could get the impression when we heard the representative Hemdal. So there were many questions about magazine filling. I don't have the opportunity to get into all of them now. But I can say this on a little general basis: first, I think, as several of the representatives have been here today, that it's also right after two so special years that we've been through now, that we're going through these two years and see how the system has worked. I think it's responsible, sensible and very good if we can also learn from it and improve the policy. When they say that if we go into the year that we have behind us in concrete terms, the situation is that in the spring part last year, where one might have saved water, that there was a need for that water. There was power that was produced after a winter when there was scarce resources, and where the need for power was present. If you had gone into the end of last year and said that more would be left in the magazines, it would mean that someone had to find that force somewhere else, because there was a real power need. Then there have been two periods in 2010 where there have been exports of force. One was at the tip of the spring season, where production was very much compared to consumption in Norway. Then we have had a period at the harvest party, or early in the winter, when Swedish nuclear power plants were down, and when, in a Nordic perspective, Norwegian hydropower was needed to maintain the Nordic power balance. When one now sees the Norwegian need for Swedish nuclear power and imports of force, it is possible, to say the least, to see a certain connection in this connection with what was Norway’s contribution earlier, in the autumn, and what has been the contribution of others later in this season. In the case of AMS, I just want to repeat what I have said before, that here we have been busy also having a close dialogue with the EU to ensure that a system is so similar between neighbouring countries that it does not become impractical. And when it comes to what we can get out of that system, I generally think that there's a lot, a lot more than the representative Solvik-Olsen here takes up, without having time to get into it now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2373	Case No. So 7 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2394	The background to this interpellation is the introduction by the University of Oslo of the autumn of 2011 of a new arrangement for the law study. This means that the possibility of taking the examination as a private individual disappears. As a result, the situation is changing for many young people who are in the process of doing, or have already done, the choice to study law without following the study at the universities that have this offer today. After active meeting activities and negotiations, the University of Oslo has agreed to a transitional arrangement ensuring that those who have already started the study elsewhere have the opportunity to take the exam. The University of Bergen has made a similar change in the past, and the University of Tromsø, which now becomes the only remaining possibility for the privateists, is concerned about the violent progress they can now get. They therefore consider implementing the same changes. It worries me that in this way we greatly reduce the possibility, or as a consequence even eliminate the possibility, of taking the examination as a private individual in such an important subject. The changes at the University of Oslo are justified by the need to improve the quality of education, and that is an objective we will in no way oppose. The individual university should always focus on quality and results, and on our part there is no doubt that that intention is supported. However, it seems strange that efforts cannot be made at the same time to ensure the quality and performance of the private sector, but that these are also excluded. Reference is made to the fact that the iron percentage is higher in the private sector. Then you should figure out what can be done to improve the results. I have to say that in that context I had expected the Council of State to be committed to maintaining an important offer. In connection with the changes in Oslo, the Ministry of Justice was also consulted. In their hearing opinion, they pointed to the reduced volume this would lead to, and noted that perhaps, in particular, the public would notice that it would be difficult to obtain enough skilled labour with legal competence. Of course, it is not the responsibility of the University of Oslo to provide enough skills for the labour market alone. That they did not take that concern so seriously is only natural, but also not after this announcement of concern the Council of State came to the fore. Governments have a responsibility to ensure a comprehensive and good offer in higher education that ensures the competence of the labour market. When a lot of students then disappear, in my opinion, the Council of State should immediately engage in dialogue to ensure an alternative offer. Those who take the exam as privateists can mainly be divided into two groups. One group is young people who choose to follow the teaching through other, mainly private, offers that do not have the right to an examination. This is a full-time and part-time offer. This group would probably be able to follow much of the teaching at the university if there had been enough places to study. I have recorded that last week the Council of State distributed the latest new study places funded in the 2011 budget, and that is good. However, this is not enough to replace the places of study we are talking about here. The second group is adult people who want to take on further education in combination with work, family life and other engagement. This is a valuable group with both experience in life and experience in the workplace. Upon completion of their studies, they will have a very valuable competence that is a combination of professional study and experience. For this group, selecting full studies is often not an alternative. In this last group, there are also many who live so that it is difficult to follow studies at a university, but can still do the exam there. People's University has education for many of these. I have to admit that I have wondered if the failure of the Council of State is due to the fact that it is private actors who mainly provide the alternative study offers that help private individuals to pass the exam. The Council of State and her party are clear on what conditions private actors in education should have, but at the same time I cannot understand that it should be the background here. Could it be that there hasn't been enough focus on how many of these things apply? In response to Dagrun Eriksen in August 2010, I note that this is so few. Some figures from the fourth year of a limited period, which in turn is the result of conversion, do not tell the situation. This applies to several hundred people who attend the private examination each year. So this large group takes up education without seizing places at universities. It can also be discussed whether the basis for rejecting private individuals under the University Act is present, but it is not my concern here. In the Right, we are pleased with the alternative offers that exist, we are happy with everyone who will start higher studies, and we are pleased with those who, through their own efforts and systematic work, can achieve results. The knowledge-based nation of Norway needs this. I also need to remember the great pressure in new places of study because of new, large youth coals. Loss of private opportunities, and as a consequence of the closure of private educational facilities, will result in even more people fighting about the places of study offered. It is a fact that the changes will lead to a reduction in the number of persons acquiring legal competence and that the group combining them with long experience is in danger of becoming significantly smaller. We don't deserve that. For this reason, the Council of State must address this issue and ensure the right to take the private examination in the future. We need this competence, and the public needs good access to competence. In fact, good access to legal competence is an important factor in creating safe and good communities. We need to know that someone is careful that both private and public matters are related to laws and regulations, and we need to be sure that when we need advice and help if we are unfairly treated, then the competence is in place to help us. Now I am excited if the Council of State will accept this invitation to follow up on the private offer. My wish is that we can now gather to create room for good solutions also for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2417	For the sake of order, I will first clarify the background to this matter. In 2006, the National Quality Education Body (NOCUT) set up an expert committee to review and reaccredit the Norwegian legal training programmes. The report was presented in 2008, and several institutions included: The University of Oslo, clearly criticised for the way the teaching was carried out. The University of Oslo has subsequently addressed the challenges identified, and they have come to the conclusion that there was a need for a redesign of the syllabus. These changes include: a closer follow-up of the students, more continuous feedback to the students and the introduction of mandatory teaching activities. With regard to the introduction of mandatory elements in studies, this is justified by the fact that some skills that are important for a lawyer are not easy to train and test through an ordinary examination. This applies, for example: argumentation and oral presentation. But it's also about the maturation process that comes from actively participating in research-based education. Juss studies have traditionally been a subject many have based on self - study. However, times are changing, and through the Quality Reform, Stortinget adopted the necessary renewal of higher education in Norway. And over the last few years, we've seen clearly that jus students who have been based on self-study have consistently done worse on exams than the ordinary students. So it's a fact that until now, privatists have had a weaker learning outcomes than the ordinary students, and through the quality improvement that the University of Oslo is now conducting in its teaching, this difference is likely to only increase. So on this point I want to be clear: I support the University of Oslo in the professional assessments they have done here. The university makes the changes because it is absolutely necessary in view of the quality of the study. Norwegian society is primarily served by having a good legal education. Section 1-5 of the Law on Higher Education also gives the institutions professional freedoms and responsibilities that I cannot control either. But then it is that the introduction of mandatory teaching activities also affects private access. Here are two important considerations that the representative draws up. The first challenge is to train a sufficient number of lawyers to meet the needs of the labour market. Traditionally, very few people have completed full legal training as private individuals. Many privatists just want to take the initial parts of the study, while others eventually apply for the regular education. In the period 2006–08, a total of 1,745 students were enrolled in the fourth department of the University of Oslo, only 19 of whom were private individuals. That's approximately equal to that. 1 pst. But I have acknowledged that we need to increase the educational capacity of legal subjects, and that is why I proposed in the 2011 State Budget to allocate funds for 190 new study places in legal subjects, and I noticed that the representative Harberg had got it. In addition, I set up a working group these days that will be tasked with investigating the future need for legal competence in the Norwegian labour market. The University of Bergen has agreed to direct this work. The second challenge facing the Harberg representative is the need for decentralised and flexible study services, often through the provision of the People's University. I have also discussed this thoroughly with the University of Oslo. Not all topics in the law study will be subject to mandatory teaching activities, which concern only a few subjects. In other words, a large part of the subject offer in the legal field will still be available to private individuals who want to increase their competence in this field, and I can assure the representative that I am not on any crossroads towards private education. Of course it has to pass. But the University of Oslo has been clear that the issues that will be closed to privateists are not the subjects that decentralized privateists have traditionally wanted to address. It will continue to be possible to take the initial parts of the study as a private individual, and a number of special subjects will be offered at different levels. These courses have been the most sought-after through the decentralised study services. Thus, the changes in the curriculum of the University of Oslo will not particularly affect the decentralised private individuals. As regards the general private opportunities, I have the following comment: The Adult Education Act was amended from 1 January 2010. Under the old Adult Education Act of 1976, the universities and higher education institutions had an obligation to approve higher education. This was not continued in a new adult education law with a regulation that entered into force on 1 January 2010. The background for this was the major changes that have taken place since 1976, not least as a result of the quality reform. The possibilities of taking secondary education decentralised or as distance learning by higher education institutions are also significantly better than they were in 1976, as a result of both technological and organisational changes in the sector, inter alia. with recording on the basis of real competence. In other words, time has run out of the system in the old law. The challenge now will be to identify appropriate organisational forms within today's system and with high quality. There is an agreed meeting with the People's University at the end of January to discuss this, and I can assure you that we have had meetings with both the People's University and other parties offering privateist education. Finally, I would like to point out that the government on several occasions and in particular through the presentation of St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009, the Education Line, as well as allocations to many new post-secondary education places, have shown that we are putting a heavy emphasis on offensive competence policies and on strengthening opportunities for lifelong learning. Quality reform focused on new forms of learning and closer cooperation with society. This must therefore also have implications for the provision of higher education. With this, I don't want, as I said, to wind up the privatist system, but within today's higher education, this system has its limitations. In the future, I would like to pay particular attention to the quality of higher education and what the ministry can do to further strengthen this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2443	I would like to thank the Council of State for its comments and answers. I am very happy that there were several things there that showed that one has been actively following up after this situation arose. I appreciate that, and that will probably help with some of our concerns. First of all – just to underline what I also said in my main post – the fact that the University of Oslo is taking action to ensure the quality of teaching is good. We support that. So there's nothing in that part of what's happening that we're questioning or thinking is bad. At the same time, when reference was made to NOCUT and cooperation with the University of Oslo, I record that NOCUT points out that the first-department privateists, who are up to half of those who go to the exam, do not burden the faculty's teaching resources, but exam resources, and that NOCUT has nothing against it continuing that way. But then the university has to finance it somehow. I don't know if the state council can answer if this can also be seen as a struggle for resources from the University of Oslo, that if one had been given increased resources to conduct the exam, then the private exam could be followed up. It's enough that there's the greatest pressure on this in Oslo, because Oslo is in many ways the most accessible. Of course, there's a lot of people here. It is a large area, but it is also available for communication for others who may travel to take this. Then the Council of State also showed the low figures in the fourth section of 2006, 2007 and 2008. That's right, because the 2005 changes made those who were going to start in the third year go into the faculty, and that makes it fewer that went on to the fourth year. So that doesn't give you a good picture. So in the same period, it was approximately. 1 700 who took the Privatist Exam. Maybe it's a bigger number than the 19 that took the fourth section. So the need is still great. I have to say that I still have some answers to how to fill the volume that both the Ministry of Justice, the Association of Lawyers and the user groups of these graduates have reported. How are we to ensure that there will be enough lawyers, enough legal education, even in the future? We need an answer to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2458	I hope the representative Harberg noticed that I also paid attention to the quality of education that is actually present and matured in his time as a student. I think that's actually as important for a student in the legal fields as for other students, where we often talk about the importance of, let's use a word like education. I think you'll be more involved when you're part of a teaching program. Thus, it probably has something to do with the quality of the arrangement – although I should not underestimate that many of those who appear to be privatists may have a good portion of real competence to deal with. Still: I'm concerned that we're training enough lawyers. Therefore, it is worth noting that in the 190 study places that we have now also received the Grand Duchy's acceptance to distribute through the 2011 State Budget, it is suggested that we start with what we call law at the bachelor level also in universities and colleges where you have not previously had a full legal education. That, I think, can be a good measure to satisfy the Lawyers' Association and others in some of the things they're looking for: having a workforce and training people who can do something about the legislation and legal challenges you have in many types of work, whether it's in the health sector, the hub or child protection – just to take those that deal with social and health, but there's also a lot of other areas. We hope we can fill a need by enabling some new apprenticeships to be able to train at the Bachelor's level in the first row. So it would be quite natural that the large latitude universities take care of the slightly longer legal education. But I think there is a relief in what we have now set up with new places of study, and I hope that in this way we can satisfy the needs of legal competence at many levels and in many areas in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2465	I believe that the vast majority of people have agreed that the interpellant has a point when he points out that there are several sectors that need more and more competent legal staff. But I'm very much in doubt that the Right is politically targeted, if the party thinks that continuing as before with a system that is far from keeping a good enough professional level is the way to go. I would like to remind you that one of the most important tenants in the higher education policy is to be clear on the quality requirement. No one has any idea that biging or government is unprofitable here. It will weaken education, and it will ultimately affect students and society. Overrun of our institutions in this area will be both very unfortunate and directly illegal. However, it would be very unwise if we now review NOCUT's clear advice and the university's work to increase the quality of the study supply. But it is absolutely desirable that more people learn within the exciting subject area that the jessen is. For this reason, it is very targeted when, in the budget adopted for 2011, there are earmarked funds for 190 new study places in legal disciplines. This is an example of good political craftsmanship. I would like to remind you that what the interpellant focuses on corresponds to approx. 1 pst. of the students taking the fourth department of this subject at the University of Oslo. It is also the case that there is a need for decentralised and flexible studies, such as: People's University can offer. Therefore, it is nice that it is not that all subjects in the law study will have mandatory teaching activities. It actually only applies to a few subjects. In other words, a large part of the subject area of legal subjects will still be available to private individuals who want to increase their competence within individual subjects. Furthermore, the subjects that are connected to private individuals are not the subjects that decentralized privateists traditionally want to take. It will still be possible to take the opening parts of the study as a private individual. It is precisely such courses that have been most sought-after through the decentralised study provision. Compared to the fact that employees in today's world, and not least in tomorrow's working life, will have a stronger need for high-quality lifelong learning, the changes that the University of Oslo now makes, and the flexible offers such as: The People's University offers, crucially important. This combination will meet the expectations of a better quality education than the old one, which can still be both decentralised and flexible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2480	I think we all share the Council's view that we want an education, an official study, a law school that focuses on quality. I would also like to point out that the Council of State, together with the Minister of Knowledge, also has an overall responsibility to ensure the quality of the way into higher education, for example. by the establishment of a good secondary school and before a good primary school. So no one has said that the students who are going to graduate should have a lower standard than if they had gone a standard course that's cast to them from the university once and for all. I think that, if you have these two prerequisites clearly, high quality at the entrance to the study and high quality at the time of final exams, you can see a little more relaxed that there are several paths to the same goal, where customer orientation, to use it protruded, must also be quite essential. In Norway, we have historical experience of the BI School of Commerce fighting by offering flexibility in terms of living, working conditions and not least geographical distribution. After all, it has become a higher education institution, knowledge-based and research-based, which has grown to the extent tolerated by the public system. So I can't quite free myself from the fact that the underlying of this poor response is a concern to be exposed to unpleasant competition. I think everyone is getting better at competition, while respecting that the University of Oslo is doing this transformation, because they're under pressure from frameworks that make them pay for their full-time students. So just in a situation where we politicians put an external pressure on our apprenticeships to ensure a significant student penetration, it's also important to maintain valves in the system, and one of these valves is the private procurement. Then we work together to ensure that there are certification and examination systems that are careful not to release lawyers into society who are not fully educated. I see that the Council's response to setting up a working group contains a small opening to at least look at the issue. But I'll probably recommend that you have a slightly more offensive attitude to accept that there are more ways to higher education than just the university-based path. We live in a society that is on its way into an age after oil, and where we constantly remember each other at festivities – and most recently the Prime Minister in the New Year – that we must now live on the skills, and not least the competences of each other, and then we must not have a public system that is rigid, where we believe that you are getting better yourself or ensuring the quality of the alternatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2491	Developments in society are such that soon we all need to have some department from the juxtaposition as a background for maneuvering. We see in this case, and we hear from both the interpellant and the Council of State that we have a growing need for lawyers. Many parts of society need more trained lawyers. There is one perspective in this matter: how are we going to be able to get enough lawyers to meet the actual demand? There is also a need to improve the quality of the law study, and that is why NOKUT’s comments on how this law study should be. But it is also the case that many people take the study outside public universities and established universities and law studies. It has come out a little bit, but the Christian People's Party is concerned about the study associations that offer jus. The People's University has been mentioned, and in reply to me from the Council of State on 27 August 2010, she says that they will be ‘little affected’. The People's University and other jurisprudence providers report that this is wrong, because it is not the case that they only offer peer-to-peer courses. Both in Oslo and in Trondheim, the Folkeuniversitetet offers first to fourth departments in law school. And so does Treider. So there are quite a number of people who need an exam offer like an extension of the study you're taking. The fact that the People's University is being affected and that they have concerns about this conversion is a real situation. I hope that the Council of State will take an active part in how to offer precisely these groups an examination resource that will enable them to complete the departments they take through the National University. I also have to ask the Council of State to review the figures she is using, to look at how many it actually was – as the scheme was converted in 2005, it may be a little wrong to refer to the figures from 2006 to 2008 and base them on, for the first fourth section of 2009 will be clear. So we have a concern for the people's universities. We want it to be an offer that they can make, so that we get this out across the country. And how can you manage to do with an exam resource that allows you to complete your studies, including through these associations?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2504	Yes, it was as expected not a long debate, for we probably agree on the intention. I would first say that I was somewhat surprised at Tor Bremer's posts. He mentioned this as if the Right would continue as before. But when he gets my script afterwards, he'll probably be convinced of the opposite, because what I just explained was that we don't want to go on like before. We want the University of Oslo to take action, and we want you to also see if you can take action to ensure the quality, as others have been here, even for the private sector. So I have to comment on this strange focus on bringing down the numbers. The representative, Tor Bremer, said it only corresponds to 1 pst. of those who went up to the fourth division exam. But you can't look at the fourth section in isolation. The Council of State itself has told us what is happening along the way in the study. I have the numbers here from 2006 until now. In the period 2006 to 2008, the number of private individuals who met for the exam ranged from 12 pst. to 26.9 pst. There was a lot of private participation. In spring 2009, it was 30.7 pst. Privatists among those taking the exam and in autumn 2009 17.3 pst. The figures for 2010 are not ready yet – I have tried to get them today, but they are not ready. So that's a significant amount, and we have to take that seriously. That was one concern. Then I have to say that when I hear the Council's answer about all the possibilities that are now there, at least it's not what is perceived by these actors who run and teach. Nor is it what is perceived by the students and these others that we have now talked about, studies or what it might be. So I really must encourage the Council of State to engage in dialogue with the University of Oslo to communicate the opportunities that are there. On their websites, it does not seem that there are great opportunities to continue as a privateist, and as I said, all these who are going to use it, perceive that the doors are closing. So if it is that there are still great opportunities, and it can help in terms of the number that we need to educate, I hope that the Council of State will at least take action to really announce and make visible the offers that are there, in parallel with the measures that she promised to take to ensure that there are other possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2515	It can be heard in the debate as if we are not talking to the University of Oslo or having an overview of the figures underlying the various measures, and that we are not following what is qualitatively good either. We're doing all of this. We have frequent dialogues with the University of Oslo. They have assured us that there will be transitional arrangements for those who are now privatists, so that they can complete their planned studies within a reasonable time, and we also have strong and frequent dialogues with the providers of privateist education that exist today, primarily the People's University. What's the most important challenge is quality. It's hard to get into the law school, and it should be. Some demands are made on the students who want to get in there, and it should not be the case that lower demands are placed on the education that is elsewhere. I would say that, also in response to Tetzschner's comments, that of course competition is enough, and we have more universities offering legal education, but we cannot accept a competition where some of the providers do not meet the quality that we demand, and I think everyone will agree on that. We need to have a high quality -- one thing is in the intake, and another thing is through the study. So, as I mentioned in my post, the universities and colleges have become quite good at providing decentralised education, and it has grown as a good competence of our educational institutions, which have in many ways taken over the market that different other actors had before. But I can assure you that we are concerned about finding a solution, for example. with the Folkeuniversity which satisfies the quality conditions. Because it is crucial, and there is no lack of dialogue on how to do it. We believe that not least the study federations can do a job on a part of the education provision, but it is probably quite demanding to offer such a long-term education as legal education is in its full range. There, I think, developments have also led to higher demands. But it's the diversity that's important to us, and as I mentioned in the answer to the interpellant, it's so that we now also offer shorter studies, or up to the Bachelor's degree in law, and I think it'll complement the picture well. So it's the way, also to the representative Tetzschner, that the working group that I've set up doesn't necessarily have to go into the relationship between ordinary studies and the privateist study, but it's going to identify the need for legal competence, so that we get a good backbone for further action in terms of training good lawyers, because I think we can all agree that we need it in the future too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2528	The debate on substance is closed. So 8 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2534	The size goes to voting. In Case No: 1 and 2 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2556	In Case No: 4–8 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-01-17.ana.ud2173e2657	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
