ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e246	The representative of Sonja Mandt, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e254	I have the honour to present a proposal for a representative on behalf of Mr Øyvind Håbreek, Mr Knut Arild Hareide, Mr Jørgen Bekkewold and I signed a new proposal for volunteering and civil society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e259	The representative, Mr Øyvind Håbrek, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e262	I have the pleasure, on behalf of the representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, Knut Arild Hareide, Geir Jørgen Bekkewold and myself, to present representative proposals on a stepping-up plan for the cultural and music schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e267	The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e270	I am delighted to make a proposal on behalf of the big-time representative Jan Arild Ellingsen and myself that the Riksrevision conducts a special examination of the acquisition process and the basis for the selection of the Joint Strike Fighter [[(JSF) (F-35)]] And then I'm going to make suggestions from Bård Hoksrud, Per Arne Olsen, Ulf Leirstein, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Vokskesen, Arne Sortevik, Oskar J. Grimstad and myself to strengthen oil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e277	The representative, Solvency Horne, will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e280	I am delighted on behalf of Ib Thomsen, Øyvind Korsberg, Harald T. Nesvik, Per Arne Olsen and myself to propose to improve the framework conditions for private care businesses. So I would like to propose, on behalf of the big-time representatives Ib Thomsen, Øyvind Korsberg and myself, to transfer the tasks of the county councillors for child protection and social affairs to the ordinary courts. And finally, I will make suggestions from Ib Thomsen, Øyvind Korsberg, and signed to introduce continuous nursery receptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e290	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e293	I have the pleasure on behalf of the big-time representatives Solvency Horne, Robert Eriksson, Gjermund Hagesetter, Åge Starheim and myself to make a proposal to limit the right to cash support on the basis of citizenship.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e298	The representative, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e301	On behalf of Sylvi Graham, Sonja Irene Sjøli, Svein Harberg and myself, I am delighted to propose a better kindergarten with more diversity and quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e306	The representative, Anders B. Werp, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e309	I am delighted to present a proposal by the representatives of André Oktay Dahl, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, Arve Kambe, Ingjerd Schou and myself on combating one percent of MC clubs.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e314	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will inform that the meeting will continue, if necessary, beyond 1 p.m. 16 until the current map has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e328	The President requests a new member of the Electoral Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e331	I suggest Line Henriette Heimdal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e336	Line Henriette Hemdal has been proposed as a new member of the electoral committee. Other proposals are not available, and the President assumes that they can be voted in the usual way. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Those who vote against are asked to stand up. – No one has stood up, and Line Henriette Hemdal is thus unanimously elected as a new member of the electoral committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e352	The matter being dealt with here has not been outside the regulatory period, i.e. 48 hours. On the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, the President will propose that the Stortinget should nevertheless deal with this matter now. No objections have been raised against the President's proposal. – It is then deemed to have been adopted. No one has asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3, 4 and 5 are treated together. [[Fotation, see page 5064]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e398	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 2 hours and 35 minutes and that speaking time be allocated as follows: Working Party 55 minutes, Progress Party 35 minutes, Right 25 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to three lines, with replies from the main speakers and parliamentary leaders of each party group, and up to five lines, with replies from the member of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e409	Safe governance of the economy. Take down the oil money business. Make our contribution to not getting a strange interest rate. Put the jobs first, mainly those who compete with foreigners for contracts and assignments. These are some of the main conclusions of the majority in this position that the Stortinget is invited to adopt today. In my opinion, there is no greater task in economic policy than to ensure that we can keep enough people – as many as possible – in jobs and create new jobs for the future. However, in addition to this, the majority parties have also found room to support a number of government proposals on some bets. I just want to mention a few things from the setting: the labour market measures for the weakest in the labour market are being strengthened. The bills for Libyan operations are settled. Road budgets are further increasing from a high level. The identification of resources in the northern regions is strengthened as well as the billing of a number of measures previously adopted by the Stortinget, including a sharp increase in the investment grant for nursing homes and day-old manned nursing homes. Today, when the Storting revises the State budget for 2011, it also marks the end of a long session and is the last major debate in the Stortinge before voters decide which candidates and which parties are best placed to ensure the security of the community. I therefore think it must also be allowed to stop and look at the actual results and on what kind of alternative to today's policies are visible in the main hall in the last six months. Today, Norway has Europe's lowest unemployment rate. Yes, we actually have lower unemployment now, right after a global financial crisis, than the Bondevik government had without a financial crisis. While new jobs were scarcely created, neither in the public sector nor in the private sector before the Stoltenberg government took over, we now have a great time in job creation in Norway. Since the acquisition of the Stoltenberg government in 2005, Norwegian industry and Norwegian workers have created over 250,000 new jobs in Norway — about two thirds of them in the private sector. At the same time as we have the creative power in the private sector, we have spent the large amount of money gradually upgrading the security of Norwegian communities. On Wednesday, the SSB came with new figures showing that only in the last two years there have been 5,600 more annual jobs in the care sector. There are seven new full-time security-creating people employed every day – everyday as a weekend – in the last two years. I am proud of this and believe that the development towards more use of people in, among other things. care for the elderly must continue. But I think it is remarkable that the right-wing manager of a recent interview in the magazine of the Employers' Association, Specter, says that: ‘We must start to slow down the growth of welfare goods and the increase in the number of employees in the public sector’. I don't think that development is possible, because we have large, unsolved tasks in the future in Norwegian care for the elderly. But that sounds familiar. It's not that many years since the Right Leader was a municipal minister, and we could have a weekly notice of municipal uprisings around the country, because the big money was spent on tax cuts. Although Norway is doing well, there is a new concern about yeasts in Europe and the United States – concerns in the economy, which in turn can have consequences for Norwegian business and Norwegian jobs. It gives me the impression of hearing more authorities on the world stage who are genuinely concerned about what can happen again to the global economy, if you don't find solutions to a number of demanding questions. There is enough room for today's discussion between the powers of France and Germany on how to deal with the Greek crisis in the course of the process. There is little doubt that we can have new, major consequences for Norway, for example. should see an uncontrolled debt write-down with the possible contagion effects on large parts of Europe. Therefore, there is no room for gambling or for taking any chances with the security and governance of economic policy. In the revised national budget, the government and the bulk of the population add up to an oil money use that is in the spirit of the rule of action, where, at a time when an economy is improving, we use increased oil revenues to strengthen the budgetary balance, simply because it offers confidence today and in the future. In this situation, it is special that once again, after nearly six years of civil opposition saying they will cooperate, we are not in the vicinity – once again – neither in the setting nor in other contexts, they are able to agree on the most critical issue of economic policy in Norway. I therefore expect – once again in this case, the last day before Stortinget splits before the elections in the fall – that the opposition spokespersons, among others. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. With this, I present the vote on behalf of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e436	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e439	We have seen during the winter that there have been strong increases in the fuel tax and electricity tax, and we have seen a sharp increase in the prices of these products. We have also seen that we have had strong increases in the taxes on goods that are being smuggled a lot, and that there is leakage to Sweden, among others. tobacco and alcohol. This increase in charges and price increases are particularly affecting those with the lowest income. The Progress Party has proposed a significant reduction in the levy in order to compensate for this increase in prices. My question to the Chair of the Financial Committee is: does the Chair of the Financial Committee, the Workers' Party and the Red-Greens have no sympathy for those who have the lowest income and who are hardest hit by these increases?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e446	So this is what a representative of the largest opposition party in the United Kingdom speaks at a time when Europe and the people who shout for security. People are afraid of their pensions – the basic security – because jobs in the public sector are running smoothly, because they simply have to settle their housing, so in Norway they are busy spending the money to give people in Norway better purchasing power through lower taxes, among other things. on petrol. I think it says a lot about what are the dividing lines in Norwegian policy. I want to spend the largest amount of money building up the care of the elderly rather than reducing taxes and charges. I also record that after the national meeting of the Progress Party, there has been a debate in the Progress Party on how much tax relief the party wants to produce, but I record in the vote that the Progress Party in this area, with the petrol tax and in other contexts, is not close to filling up its own electoral promises when the bill is due to be settled. They're not close to making up the bill, among other things. for the commitment to pay Swedish petrol and fuel taxes in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e455	The representative Micaelsen said that we have been through a great time in job creation, and we can agree on that. It is as the Newspaper wrote in 2005, that this government came to the table and that the situation in the Norwegian economy was very good for a solid growth period. After that, we have had a very good international boom until the financial crisis. So my question to the Micasen is: does Micasen, in the same way as the Newspaper, acknowledge that the effects of the economy actually go beyond a single period of government, and that much of the job creation we have seen in the Norwegian economy, especially in the period 2005-2008, is very much due to the policy pursued by the previous government?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e462	Yes, of course, I acknowledge that it is not that the Workers' Party is doing it at any time today, has direct consequences tomorrow, but can have it in the future, in the same way that the Right's contribution is also to be recognised. But above all, it is the violent labour force in Norwegian business, among Norwegian workers, that must be recognised. There's no doubt that it's not here in the Storting, first and foremost, at least for the private sector – in addition to keeping the economy in order – we can create the jobs. It's a robust business, good people, people who dare to bet their money on creating new jobs, that have to be recognised for. On the other hand, what I take full responsibility for is that while new people in the public sector were barely employed in Norwegian municipalities under the leadership of Højres and Bondevik before the Stoltenberg government took over, we have had the expansion of the Community sector in Norway with many tens of thousands of new people creating security in Norwegian communities. We've made it clear what we're always looking for, namely, having growth in both the private and the public sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e469	There's no room for gambling, I'm now quoting from the chairman's statement. Of course, it's a statement that usually gets the Christian People's Party's whole-hearted uprising. I want to say that the government parties in the setting have exceeded themselves by not operating with gambling, because you are not moving on a single dollar. So here it's positively a precautionary principle that applies – maybe it's better saved for some of the election campaigns. In one area, I think maybe you should take the spoon in a slightly different hand. It is estimated that about 4 000 people are in treatment queues for treatment for their drug problems. It's free capacity. Is it some sort of gambling that the committee's chairman would also warn against, that a little adjustment is made to the course and that those with these problems are also given the opportunity to receive treatment for them?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e478	I think it was a good expression as usual, and I am glad that the representative Syversen supports the fact that there is no room for taking any chances in the economic policy of Norway today. Once again, you don't get sidetracked when you have such a line change on the last day of the session, that there's a huge distance between the themes that the Christian People's Party addresses, which I support, and the other representatives from the bourgeois side take up. It says a lot about where the lines of Norwegian policy are now going. I think it is commendable that the Christian People's Party has an involvement in the care of russians. He has that in common with us red-green. Russoorg has been an important investment in many of our ordinary budgets, and revision is not a new budget. This is basically a very good budget, which we had a big debate on last year's harvest here in Stortinget. We have established rusakutter in Oslo and Bergen, and more are on the way. We've set up eleven detention units in Norwegian prisons. We are following the escalation of what the Storting itself has adopted, namely the escalating plan for the drug field. So I think we have a lot to be proud of, but still a lot to go on in Norwegian russorg – there I agree with the representative Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e487	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e491	The Progress Party notes that the government’s proposals to the revised national budget do not take into account the fact that the situation has changed in a number of budgetary areas since the adoption of the State budget in November 2010. The Progress Party considers revised as just it – a revision of the budget. But then you also have to be able to deal with relationships that have changed, for example. in areas where the situation is now deteriorating and where the adopted State budget is based on a policy that does not take place. Today, when the Grand Duchy is dealing with the revised national budget, several European countries face enormous challenges, including the Committee's chairman. The euro has been put under considerable pressure and large amounts have been granted in an attempt to stabilise the economy. This is also going to have consequences for Norway and is already getting it today. With an open economy and a large export-oriented business, there will be the economic turmoil in our main markets. For Norway, which has money on book, however, such a situation we have in Europe can be positive in some areas. Through our proposals, which are to be discussed today, we have challenged the Stortinget to provide significantly more funds for the necessary investments at home. And that's how high unemployment in many European countries is what is commonly called the buyer's market. We who have financial resources should now use such a situation for the necessary development of Norwegian infrastructure through larger tenders, where we can make use of the available capacity in Europe. This will also be very positive for those countries that are now struggling with high levels of unemployment. In several areas, the situation has deteriorated since the adoption of the State budget in the autumn of 2010. In particular, I can point out the challenges in the health and care sector, in the justice sector and that there is still a great deal to be done in terms of the necessary investment in infrastructure. The Progress Party therefore supports proposals for increased appropriations in these areas in order to improve well-being and launch more necessary investments in the transport sector. Let me then briefly comment on the individual main priorities of the proposals of the Progress Party, which have now been promoted in revision. There are still more than a quarter of a million people in hospital queues waiting for treatment – this is also available to private contract specialists and private hospitals. As the Progress Party has said for a long time, it would be very appropriate to increase the use of these private services, all the time waiting lists and waiting times for treatment and rehabilitation are very long and increasing. It will be socio-economically beneficial to have people treated quickly and back to work rather than receiving different social security benefits pending health and rehabilitation assistance, and it will be very important in view of the individual's quality of life and dignity. In addition, we now see large cuts in health businesses. The budgets are cut, and fewer are to be operated and treated in public hospitals – and this is at a time when so many people are waiting for treatment. The Progress Party believes that the government must realise that this is wrong, and we therefore propose that more funds be allocated to health businesses. Despite the government's boast of allegedly prioritizing the police in this year's budget, reality is different. The Progress Party is concerned about the development of police coverage and believes that the budgetary adjustments should reflect this. Among other things, we have in the last – unfortunately – seen a wave of rape that has hit Oslo, which has led to a great deal of insecurity in the capital. There have also been a number of other serious incidents in the capital, but also in the rest of the country. There have been several killings and an increased terrorist threat, which the government only partially takes over. 16 May this year it was possible to read in the Evening Post that the PST led to the need for 70–80 new scanners. Then it gets too spooky with eight new jobs. What Police Norway needs now is more visible police. This can easily be solved as it is known that over 400 new police students have completed their education and are ready for active service. The students should have been guaranteed a job, and the Progress Party therefore proposes to provide sufficient appropriations for the recruitment of all those who do not enter a published job. These can be put into active field service immediately. The police also need to put in place a new ICT system, and it needs to be centrally funded, so that the necessary investment does not go beyond normal operation. Therefore, necessary investments must be made without depriving the operating budgets. The Progress Party proposes to set at 50 million. kr for further ICT investment out of the year. As I was at the beginning, we have some challenges in terms of infrastructure. Norwegian roads and railways are screaming for increased investment and not least increased maintenance. The fall in demand is fast growing, and developments are moving in the opposite direction to what the government claims in terms of investment in infrastructure. Recent reports also show that Norway, as a nation in a number of areas, is saving itself and is not making the necessary investments. In particular, due to increased asphalt prices, we now see that the modest maintenance that was said to be carried out in the road sector is not being carried out at all. There is simply a need for more financial resources here. Therefore, through the revised budget, the Progress Party proposes increased appropriations, in particular for road construction, maintenance and rail investment. The Norwegian railway situation is critical. Capacities are detonated. There is little reference to the adopted national transport plan. In the 2010 state budget, it was found that the government’s own figures showed that it was already well behind its own national transport plan, and that already last year it amounted to around 850 million. expenditure on rail in the course of arrears. Norwegian municipalities are responsible for some of the most important welfare services in our society. In particular, we have seen that many municipalities do not have the power to offer decent and dignified services to elderly people in need of care. There's talk of cutting across. The Progress Party therefore proposes that it be granted and earmarked for 1 billion. to care for the elderly, for all necessary immediate measures in this area. It is therefore something special when the committee's head in a line change earlier today says that the Workers' Party and the government want to spend the large amount of money in the large areas, among other things. Today by the government, and by the government parties, will vote in favour of the proposal of 1 billion. kr extra for the care of the elderly. Given that you know what the situation is like, you should vote for this extra billion. The Progress Party also proposes that earmarked funds be allocated to the county roads and municipal roads, while also proposing more free funding to the municipalities. Increased funding for municipalities is not the answer to all the challenges. But when we see the local government's budgets and the cuts that have taken place, we probably have to realize that now there's got to be something more money to do, and that's what the government should be taking over. I note that, through the examination of the revision by the Financial Committee, the red-green majority has chosen not to redispatch a single crown. They have not strengthened any areas in addition to increasing the transfer to the oil fund – it has been the most important mantra. So there is no input into the revised budget that has been found worthy, nor does any of the opposition's proposals fall in taste. That's pretty amazing. You might have been tricked into looking at what comes from suggestions and recordings – something might make sense. Today we are discussing the revised budget, which is being discussed in the middle of the financial year. The Progress Party has therefore not chosen to promote its traditional cut proposals. But there is also a considerable margin for cutting government spending in a number of areas – I would like to draw attention to this too today – and it shows the Progress Party through its annual alternative budgets. It is impossible to understand why in one of the world’s richest countries there are still major problems in health care, care for the elderly and the school system, and the lack of police and defence resources and the lack of resources for road investment. Through the treatment of the revised national budget, the Stortinget, if the government parties were willing to do so, could increase investment in key areas and make profitable investments in the necessary infrastructure. But I note that the will is not there. Finally, I would like to address the proposals put forward by the Progress Party, either alone or with other parties, in the position of the Financial Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e523	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e528	The Progressive Party notes that the Party “considers the revised budget to be a technical audit” and that the Party has therefore ‘restricted itself to make proposals in the areas those members consider to be the most necessary’. Using 7.8 billion more oil crowns in a technical audit is now one thing, but when you look at which proposals the party considers to be ‘most required’, it is cut in the alcohol tax, the tobacco tax and the chocolate tax of hundreds of millions of dollars. The Progress Party calls it a border trade measure. My question then becomes whether the representative of the Progress Party sees it paradoxical to spend several hundred million kroner on measures to reduce border trade, while at the same time the party pursues an economic policy that increases the pressure on interest and dollar rates, which in turn will make border trade more attractive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e535	The claim that our policy should give rise to increased pressure on interest rates and exchange rates, I would now like to see documented. So even with the 7.8 billion. kr we spend more, as we call it, in the revised, we still spend less money than the government itself thought was reasonable use of money when it was adopted in November. So concretely at the fees. I had hoped that the Workers' Party's fiscal spokesman would have brought along the increased border trade that is now taking place. Among other things, the business community in Norway is asking for a reduction in the charges on baits, so that jobs can be moved home to Norway, rather than to be in Sweden. Therefore, it is quite natural for the Progress Party to take seriously the increased border trade and propose cutting taxes on baits, so that we can get more people to trade the goods here at home, in a Norwegian market, and facilitate more jobs in Norway, rather than move them across the border.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e544	There are many people today who have difficulty placing the Progress Party ideologically. Many think that the party rides two horses, economic liberalism, by increasing market forces, while at the same time wanting to increase public spending, defending the strongest. The progress party wants to go in alliance with the Right. The right has the strongest liberalist tradition and thus the strongest trade mark, namely economic liberalism. It is very clear that Erling Norvik's Right left. My question is: is the Progress Party, which is a junior partner, in such an economic, liberalist tradition, or is there another ideological tradition that you now define?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e553	I note that the starting point for the question is that the questioner believes that there are many who are in doubt about where the Progress Party is in the ideological landscape. I don't think very many people are in doubt about it. The Progress Party is a liberalist party and, of course, also commits itself to a market economy policy. I have found through my six years in the Financial Committee that in a number of areas, the Right Party and the Advance Party have worked together, and also with the Left and Christian People's Party in a number of important areas. I think we also saw that in the context of the state budget that was put in place for 2011, where we were probably closer to each other than ever before. And it is positive given that the Progress Party has a clear desire to take over the government power after the 2013 elections, and looks forward to constructive talks and constructive cooperation with the other parties that are currently in opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e560	When you hear the Progress Party, you can always get the impression that the situation in Norway is quite different from what it actually is. If we look around the world, we see that we are extremely privileged. Most people in Norway are doing very well. We have a security that others envy us. We have a unemployment rate that is lower than it was before the financial crisis, and lower on average than in the last 20 years. Nevertheless, the Progress Party, as I see it, continues to blackmail the situation. But not enough, one also goes further in the policy that has traditionally been pursued, and which is the opposite of what we have been boasted about from recognised economic environments outside Norway, which say that investing in the welfare state, investing in small differences, not privatising school and health care is one of Norway's success recipes, as well as an active gender equality policy. Is it not time for the Progress Party to start looking at its policy and to consider, in the light of the international situation, whether or not to change its course?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e567	Of course, as a representative of the Progress Party, I am very proud of the policy of the Progress Party. If you were to change anything at all, at least you wouldn't have done it in a line shift with the SV's fiscal numerator. I'm proud of what we're presenting. And what becomes a little paradoxical is that even though a lot of people in Norway are doing very well, it's rather sad that some people fall outside. The challenges we face, for example: in the care of the elderly, how many elderly nursing people do not receive a worthwhile offer, should worry much more than the Advance Party. Today, we have made concrete proposals to strengthen, among other things. care for the elderly in the municipalities. We've proposed one extra billion. I am quite convinced that if the SV had not been in government, Inga Marte Thorkildsen had today voted in favour of our proposal. But she's going to argue fiercely against, because you're obviously in a government that's always putting away a damp hand over what you really want, also in SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e576	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e579	While we in Norway are discussing how to distribute growth, we know that in many other European countries and in the United States, the discussion is about how to cut welfare and how to reduce unemployment. Many people experience job uncertainties, in relation to strong cuts in well-being and in relation to future pensions. We're in a privileged and unique situation in Norway, and we're going to be glad that a lot is going in the right direction. The revised national budget shows that growth has risen and that unemployment has fallen further. It is positive, and it also deserves recognition. The uncertain situation we see in Europe also underlines the importance of economic policy being shaped by moderation and, above all, long-term. Because there is no doubt that the situation experienced in Europe can also turn into a small country like Norway, with an open economy. The revised national budget also shows that we are in a situation where Norway can save without saving. While the use of oil revenues is falling sharply, public expenditure is rising. This shows that we are in a situation where quite a few other countries are in, that we both have good revenues from a petroleum industry and at the same time experience good growth in the economy, which makes it more beneficial. While there is reason to take on board the concerns of the economic situation in southern Europe, it is also important to stress that Norway is not just about getting out of the financial crisis. In fact, many civilised countries in northern Europe are now working out of the crisis. Let me just mention Estonia, Germany, Finland and not least Sweden as examples of this. Sweden is now experiencing much stronger economic growth than Norway is doing. Sweden is also experiencing a good decline in unemployment, and it is expected that unemployment will continue to decline in the coming years. So we're not always going to compare ourselves to the worst, the countries that have the biggest challenges. There is every reason to point out to many of the northern European civilised countries that are now working out of the crisis, have good economic growth and see that unemployment is falling, creating greater security for many. Nevertheless, while pointing to the positive trends in Norway, I would also like to point out that Norway is facing quite major challenges in the years ahead. And there is a danger that oil revenues will help to overshadow many of these challenges. I refer to the lack of conversion and modernisation of the public sector that we have experienced in recent years, but also to the fact that the competitive sector has weakened its competitiveness every year after the Stoltenberg II government took over. We also see that Norway is now falling on the world's competitiveness index. While Sweden goes from 6th to 4th place, Norway experiences falling from 9th to 13th place. This competitiveness index is not just about costs; it is also about the increased taxes, it is about the lack of flexibility in the labour market, and it is about the lack of innovation capacity. A few days ago, the EU presented a large comparison of the innovative capacity of European countries, and while Germany, Finland, Denmark and Sweden are at the top of Europe in terms of innovation capacity, Norway is in the second lowest group. I believe that these two challenges, competitiveness and innovation, are two important challenges that we need to address, because it is about our ability to create values in the future, our ability to bear well-being. The revised national budget re-prioritises the right about 4 billion. kr. We also regard the revised national budget as a revision and not a rematch on small and large. But within the 4 billion. kr selects the right to use about 2 billion. kr less than the government does. There's two important reasons for that. One is that the Right in its ordinary budget prioritises some tax reliefs that we do not now deal with. Therefore, it is not natural that we use the entire space for action to increase public expenditure. The second is that there is a rather strong pressure on the growth of public expenditure. That's why we think it's essential to keep something back. In the areas that we otherwise prioritise, it is about knowledge in school, it is about quality in care, it is about how we can create safe communities, and it is about better roads and good public transport. Knowledge in school is one of the most important things on the Right. What can we do in the revised national budget to strengthen the dissemination of knowledge? Well, that's betting on the teachers. What the right is doing in this budget is we're prioritizing 150 million. more for the further training of teachers. We know that there are 4,000 Norwegian teachers who want continuing education. The government's goal was for 2,500 teachers to be re-trained. The revised national budget has reduced ambitions to only 1,500 teachers. That means that less than half of the teachers who want increased qualifications actually get it. What we choose to do is to reduce the municipal proportion of continuing education, so that more teachers can actually get it, and that more of our children also get better education. We also follow-up on the Right Professional League by increasing the apprenticeship grant, so that more of our young people can get a good vocational education. Right rates of quality in care. And what is more important for quality in care than to bet on the many care workers in our hospitals, in our hospitals and in our municipalities by ensuring that more unskilled can become skilled, and that more of the nurses can receive further special education? To bet on a quality promise in care is one of the most important things in the Right. I registered that the committee leader in a line change with the Christian People's Party said that unlike the other opposition parties, it was so great that the Christian People's Party is betting on russo. The Christian People's Party bets on care, but so does the Right. In our alternative, we're increasing the spending on drug care by tens of millions of dollars, precisely because we know that one of the biggest challenges in many of our municipalities is to make sure that more of the young people who want to get out of the drug field are actually getting the help they need. The third area on the right is about safe communities. One of the most important ways to create safer communities is to make sure that we have more visible police in our streets. Right set of 100 million. kr, so that the newly educated policemen can also fill some of the vacant police uniforms that are around our country. The fourth area on the right is better roads and good public transport. Traffic is about goods getting faster, but it is also about people getting home safely. That is why our highest priority for transport in this budget is to increase road safety by making a pledge for the development of middle-parties. At the same time, we recognize that in our big cities we cannot build ourselves out of the big problems of transportation. We need to provide better public transport. We have to make sure that trains come when they have to, that there are more buses so that people can get a seat when they travel by bus. Let's take 300 million. to give rise to public transport. It is also about giving a subsidy to those who are now planning their own pathways for urban railways, so that they can improve public transport in the future. With this I address the proposals where the Right is either a co-rapporteur or a non-rapporteur.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e613	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he mentioned. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e619	I noticed that the representative Sanner believes that Norway should be compared with civilly overthrown northern European countries. Yes, we do. Sweden has managed in many ways to get some speed in the economy, but it has had a very high price. I think it is alarming if it is such that the representative Sanner believes that a country that has a unemployment rate of 8 p.m. - Almost 9 pst. – should be in line with the economic results we have here in the country. But now leave it. We have repeatedly tried to get answers to what economic policy will look like if the bourgeois parties win the elections in 2013. I have now had large portions of the paperwork of this session and I have been thinking about this, and I have seen that during this session you have not been able to give a good answer to this either. So I challenge again Jan Tore Sanner, not whether he can guarantee or not – for that I have almost given up – but whether he agrees that it is strange that in troubled times in Europe we have uncertainties about economic policy among the two largest opposition parties in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e628	Let me just answer the first part of Micaelsen's question, which is related to Sweden. The forecasts for Sweden are, first of all, economic growth significantly higher than in Norway, and unemployment will fall from 7.4 pst. to 4.8 pst. in the coming years. It's quite impressive for a country that doesn't have oil revenues, as we have in Norway. Sweden is working out of the crisis, we -- I was saying -- are financing us out of the crisis. So to the question, which I answered six months ago. I think that the answer is really quite good, where I stated that I got a certain déjà vu in relation to the line and my own questions to Jens Stoltenberg in 2004 and 2005 about how he was going to manage the spending parties SV and the Senter party. [[The President clubs]] The Labour Party has done this quite fairly well, and I am convinced that the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left will be able to steer economic development in Norway in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e637	But the representative must also learn to control speaking time within the assigned time of 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e640	On the Right's website it says that unemployment in Sweden is going down, from 7.4 pst. in the year to 4.8 pst. in 2015. – ‘The policy of the bourgeois government works’. Then I wonder, now that we've got the latest figures that show that in Norway we have a unemployment rate of 3.2 pst – it's even lower, as I said before the financial crisis – how the representative Sanner will then characterise Norwegian red-green policy. I would also like to remind you that when we discussed the package of measures against the financial crisis, the Right was among others. critically that we chose to align the package of measures in the way we did, and did not focus more on taxation. Let's add it to the call for more privatisation in health care, in schools, that's the recipe for increased social disparities and a recipe for increased unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e649	There were a lot of claims here. First, that the Right would want to privatize school and health care, is not true! The right has never suggested privatising either school or health care. The financing of our hospitals, the financing of the care of the elderly, the funding of the school and quality control are not to be privatised. It's quite right that we have a slightly more pragmatic attitude about who is going to do the tasks, but it's something quite different than privatisation, because it's about diversity, it's about quality, and it's about developing the offers. If the representative had listened to my post, I gave recognition to many of the good results in Norway. I believe that we have reason to rejoice that many jobs are created in the private sector, that we have skilled businesses, skilled workers who develop technology and who get to invest. I think there's reason to recognise that, and we're going to enjoy that. But at the same time, my accusation against the government is that one underestimates part of the future challenges due to a weakening of competitiveness and a weakening of... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e658	The right has one strong trademark – economic liberalism, i.e. to increase the arming of market forces, political expediency for the strongest to gain power in the market. What's so typical Norwegian? Well, it's the agility between people -- economic, social and cultural. From its trademark, the right is the greatest threat to these jealous values. My question is, why can't the Right say outright that the generosity of the Norwegian people is too great and is a disadvantage in the international competition of the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e667	Here, too, there were a lot of claims. Firstly, economic policy is at the forefront of the Right, a well-established centre-right policy. And we don't stand for the strongest right, we stand for the spread of power. The right is concerned with spreading ownership, not concentrating ownership. We're concerned with small differences, that it's a force. We've repeatedly stated that it's not a social democratic value, it's a Nordic value. Small differences are a value that stands strong in all Nordic societies, and I think it helps to give the Nordic economies competitive advantage. So it's once again a value that we're concerned with taking care of, and it also reflects our proposals and our economic policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e672	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e675	In the revised budget, we focus on keeping the use of oil money down in order to create room for action in future budgets. The financial crisis demonstrated the importance of being able to pursue active counter-cyclical policies when needed. Then we used large sums, including: 4 B.C.E. SEK in exceptional grants for the refurbishment of schools and other municipal buildings, 2 billion. SEK in increased free income for municipalities and 1500 hospital and nursing homes, in addition to a massive investment in labour market measures and places of study. So today we have Europe's lowest unemployment rate, lower than before the financial crisis. In the countries around us, the situation is quite different. Unemployment is sky-high in many places, youth unemployment is even higher. It is heartwarming to hear young people say that they must choose away children of pure need. They do not have the security and income to establish a family. We are enormously privileged in Norway. Most people have seen it materially well. But there are also many challenges, including: in the school sector and not least on the environment. I'll get back to that. The funds we choose to use now in revised, go to important areas such as education, fight against unemployment and social dumping, receive 250 more quota refugees from Libya, measures for the wild in the Wefsn area and Brygen in Bergen and holiday offers for poor children. We strengthen our efforts to provide teachers with continuing training; more pediatricians will have part-time management studies; the apprenticeship system will be strengthened; and the provision of adults with no basic skills. And we're now starting the introduction of choice. The fight for increased implementation and non-response is a high priority for the government. We know that those with low levels of education have fewer links with the labour market than groups with higher education. This applies in particular to adults who have not completed secondary education. The chance of ending up without is many times greater for those who only have primary school than for those who have higher education. A fair society is a society that gives different people equal opportunities for a good and marine life. That's why we started the kindergarten revolution, which has led us to build over 58 000 more kindergartens from 2005, introduced right to kindergarten and gone from spending 5 billion. DKK in kindergartens in 2001 to over 28 billion. kr in 2011. Good kindergartens for all children are the most important things we can provide to ensure that children get the best start of their lives. A good kindergarten drums even a less good school later in life. In addition, nursery schooling has led to women having been able to work more, they have become more independent. As a result, industry has gained a new competitive advantage: women. For SV, the fight against class divisions in society is all over the world – more trust between people, less crime, better health, better quality of life. That's why it was big when we got the numbers from the SSB, which showed that the differences were reduced when we took over the government offices. On December 7, last year, the class struggle wrote the following: ‘After decades of growing income differences in Norway, the trend was broken in 2006. Since then, there has been no increase in income differences in the country.» 2006 was the first financial year of the red-green government. With us, we were «a dramatic change compared to the years of dividends in the period 2002–2005», as Jon Epland from the Statistical Central Bureau said. We took over a tax settlement from Bondevik II, with the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, which was intended to give the greatest relief to the 10 pst. which was at the top of the distribution of income. With Kristin Halvorsen in the Ministry of Finance, it turned out instead that we gave tax reliefs to all other income groups than the top 10 pst. With us, the tax system finally became progressive. The richest had to find themselves paying by ability, which many do with great understanding. The second thing we were going to achieve when we went into government was a reversal of environmental policy. We've partly made that clear. Gas power plant cleaning, rainforest drilling, no oil drilling in the spawning areas of the world's last large cod stock, the Marka Act and a nature diversity law that leads to a breakthrough for Norwegian nature are examples of this. That's the same thing as 14 billion. kr to Statkraft, which triggers over 80 billion. kr to a renewable energy investment programme. Gas power is now excluded. The NOx fund is a success, and we have changed the car charging system so that we have reduced the emissions of new cars by 25 pst. In my home country, Vestfold, we had fought for years for double tracks on the Vestfold track. Now we're on, and we're even getting organized for modern high speed. This deserves more than one parenthesis when writing the government's history. However, the situation regarding Norwegian emissions is far from positive. Norwegian emissions are increasing. Emissions in the world are increasing. The dangers associated with this are enormous. My son may grow up in a world that is characterized by this in ways that we cannot understand the reach of. The generation account can therefore not only be about saving money for those who come after us. I understand those who show impatience in climate policy. And I still have less understanding of those who are trying to undermine Norwegian obligations to cut domestically. If we fail at this, we fail the next generation, which is left to take the clearing job, and which has to pay a much higher bill than we have to. If we fail to take our share, we show that rich countries are not to be trusted. We're putting Norway's reputation in jeopardy. And if we fail at this, we'll risk Norwegian industry's competitiveness. I therefore expect all the climate settlement partners, the government parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left to clear up any doubt that we will achieve the goals we have set ourselves, even domestically. Norsk Industri is more aware of the fact that a unilateral commitment to the quota system in the EU is a deadline for Norwegian industry in the long term. They say: order us and all other sectors to cut emissions. Make sure everyone reduces, not just the industry. Remember, our competitors now have access to climate action funds. If we swear to quotas, they say, our competitors are becoming more and more modern, as we become more and more old-fashioned. Let me give you some examples that they're right, and that it's reasonable and wise to set environmental requirements. Finnfjord in Troms, who produces ferrosilisium, has made huge investments in energy efficiency improvement and has CO2 neutrality as a vision. Energy recovery is an important part of their strategy, and by reducing energy use they also increase their competitiveness. They once told me how offensive Norwegian demands to get rid of the sulphur emissions gave them new opportunities and money in the checkout. Microsilica, a by-product of production, became an export article instead of an expense, as a result of their being forced to think again and stop landfilling. At Borregaard in Sarpsborg the same thing happens. They think forward and see the possibilities that environmental thinking gives, not all the constraints. Borregaard has developed new technologies for the production of bioethanol and green biochemicals from biomass such as straw and other agricultural and forest waste. Borregaard is the world's most advanced biorefinery. From Norwegian spruce all components are used for the production of advanced biochemicals that can replace oil-based alternatives. Borregaard’s special cellulose is used in tablets, glues and food products. The wood binder, lignin, is the raw material of a number of products used in concrete addition, automotive batteries and feed products. From sugar structures in the timber, bioethanol is produced as inter alia: goes to biofuels. We've just given us 58 million. kr i support for this. It's time to see all the possibilities of climate reconciliation. We can show the next generation and the world around us that we are responsible politicians who think long-term. We can leave the Norwegian people on something bigger than their sails, which really sets tracks. We can achieve technological breakthroughs and strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry instead of parking it on the sideline. We can show that climate and environment also bring other benefits to our society: better health in cities, less queue and noise, better comfort, better public health. Public transport and bicycles and fewer cars in the centre of Norwegian cities are an unconditional good. However, the electrification of Norwegian oil platforms also has positive side effects. BP has shown how they have had less noise and health risks for the workers by electric betting instead of on gas turbines. I am not a royalist, but I have been told that the princess is busy talking. I think it's time for us to start talking about the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e723	It is opened for access to cord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e726	The government is very proud that it adheres to the rule of action. That's nice stuff. At the same time, there are new reports that poverty in Norway is increasing, certainly to the great concern of the SV. My question is to the representative of Thorkildsen: is it more important to stick to the rule of action than to fight poverty? As you know, poverty could be combated by a pen stroke – I would assume it was a money transfer strike – and if it cannot be cured with money, what does the government do wrong because it is unable to combat poverty?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e734	We have never said that we can fight poverty with a pen stroke, but we have said that it is on political will. That's absolutely correct. To us it is essential to combat the differences in society. If we can't bring down the differences, we can't fight poverty either. At the same time, we want to have a humane refugee and immigration policy. This means that we are constantly getting an increase in the number, and the proportion also, with low income in Norway, is particularly related to families with a family of children with a migrant background. It gives us some extra challenges as a society, which the Special Representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde should think a little bit through. One of the things we're going to do now is put forward a distribution message that includes: will show that we will continue to invest in the measures that we have put in place and which we know are most effective, and which concern the childhood of children. It is about having children in kindergarten, especially children with a minority background, and at the same time giving women with a minority background the opportunity to work. Then also cutting cash support for two-year-olds is part of a strategy to overcome poverty among these children.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e743	No Marte Thorkildsen spoke of progressive taxation that had become so much better under the red-green government. But when you see the 2011 tax bill on this plan as I have here, it shows that a person with income between 150 000 and 250000 kroner will get a double tax bill in crowns as one that has income between 600,000 and 700000 kroner. It is not a progressive tax. The right will use the minimum deduction, which is just to help low pay both get into work and actually get a tax reduction. In its budget, the right proposes NOK 5000 increase in the minimum deduction and an upgrade of the percentage of the deduction from NOK 36 to 37. Why is it that low pay should be increased twice as much as high pay?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e752	The big picture of the tax changes we've made is the exact opposite. We have taken in large amounts from those who have the highest income and wealth in Norway. That's some reason why we also get a lot of criticism, especially from part of the support players to the right. Some of them have now retreated and are not going to make election contributions anymore, but it has been quite obvious that the reason they wanted to support the right side is that they see that they can get the biggest tax relief. As far as I remember, I guess it was the right that suggested that we give 60 000 kroner in taxes on wealth tax to those who have over 3 million. kr in income. The minimum deduction does not even apply to those who have the low income. For us, it has been important to both provide relief in the form of minimum deductions – we believe from the SV that we can benefit from more – and we should give more in tax relief to those who earn little, among others. as it increases the supply of work among them. But we should not finance it by giving increased tax relief to those who have high incomes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e759	The representative of Thorkildsen spoke a lot about the environment and climate of his contribution, and that efforts had to be made domestically. I just miss this effort in the revised budget, which I will come back to in my post. The government cuts around 1 billion. kr i revised in relation to that announced in the ordinary budget. How can the representative defend it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e766	Some of these cuts are about the Mongstad project. There we have encountered a number of obstacles along the way, which the representative Tenden has been told to be aware of. We're the first to regret that. That doesn't mean we're not going to do the project in Mongstad, we're going to. Next year, the test centre will be approx. 6 B.C.E. Let's get it done. So this has to be viewed as a technical review. But I'm glad that the representative Tenden is addressing my environmental challenge, because I feel that the silence surrounding the environmental issue has become dangerous lately. So it might be a good thing that we now have a debate, among other things. on the climate agreement, because it gives us an opportunity to state that we are going to stand on what we have said. Then I would also like the representative Tend to be happy to make sure in cooperation with the Right that they are also involved in taking action that really monies for us to achieve our national objectives.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e773	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e776	The revised national budget deals with the broad lines of economic policy and the outlook for the future Norwegian economy, but in its figures is a revision of our already adopted state budget. As a result, since the assumptions for the budget of the year have not changed significantly, budgetary changes have been notified by the government. Today's debate is the last one in the main hall before the local elections in the fall. It's important to raise your eyes. The center part is the green pole of a red-green government. The centre party is in a strategic alliance that is better than the alternative, to promote our values. All with experience from such strategic alliances know that this work involves both the defence of combative action and the political struggle to create the necessary response to future challenges, to create enthusiasm and to increase political influence. Norway is a different country in the world. It's a fact now. The concept is now used by far more than the centre parties, unlike when it was launched in the 1990s. However, the other country had an important addition, namely another country that is not seaworthy enough. It is increasingly important to bear this supplement in mind as a testimony to an international process of solidarity. As elected representatives, we have top management responsibility for shaping the future society. As part of a majority government coalition, we have an extra responsibility. And it's important to realize what's moving among people. The centre party has a tradition as a practical, terrestrial counter-culture party, and I will now appeal to everyone for an increased curiosity about the situation in everyday life – a greater commitment to the empirical in all public management, in contrast to the virtual reality. Virtual reality has gained far too much role in a number of public institutions. In the ranks of the Center Party, the authoritative man is strong – the man who thinks sea and takes responsibility. The public cannot control more in small terms, but less in small terms. On the other hand, stronger overall control of the large lines is necessary, e.g. in competition policy. We know a free market like this. It gives monopolies. Competition is the result of State intervention in its basic text. Norwegian society has a great deal of self-evidentness among people, economically, socially and culturally. In the tradition of the Centre Party, the voluntary sector – the voluntary sector, the flourishing unprofitable organisational life – is central. That's what we're working on in every context, because it's an important part of our welfare community. When it comes to the question of homonymity, it is little real for the Right Party to conceal that according to their ideology, the homonymity of Norwegian society is too great. In the tradition of the Center Party, we have to cultivate the idea of homonymity. It is a value that is very great for all people who have experienced the opposite. The labour market is very central to the question of homonymity. Today, we experience a large amount of labour immigration in some professions, and the Norwegian wage and working conditions in those industries are under very strong pressure. It is essential that the authorities strengthen their commitment to ensure that there are Norwegian wage and working conditions for those people who are to work in Norway and who experience the Norwegian high cost level every single day. Furthermore, it is important that labour market policies focus not only on the cyclical measures but also on the cyclical measures. The cyclical measures are essential for the many people with only partial working capacity. If an employer is to employ the labour force of these people, it is necessary to complete the economy so that the employer can receive a fixed-term or fixed-term wage subsidy, which is used in a number of other sectors. I see the clock is over. I don't know how many minutes I have left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e795	You have 34 seconds left now, so just keep going.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e798	Finally, the business community: the centre party wants to use all of Norway. There is today a strong centralisation of jobs, which over time will also lead to an even stronger centralisation of housing. Therefore, our awareness of communications that reduce distance costs needs to be further focused. In particular, new technologies related to the telecoms sector are crucial, and, as many have been involved, the establishment of long value chains in the processing of our renewable natural resources is central. It is also central to the climate challenges, where renewable carbon is at the heart of the issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e803	I understand that the representative Lundtegen got a little confused, because it actually said that there were 92 minutes and 15 seconds left of speaking time. There was obviously an error that we're going to make sure to get corrected. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e808	I must say that I am very disappointed with what the government has called "citizenship" in the revised budget. It's just to note that there's no wager on the way. This is especially true of Lundtigen and my own home country, Buskerud, a county that VG has previously ranked, along with the Telemark counties, to have Norway's most lethal road. I also record that Lundtigen has been out in the media and agreed that there is too much bad road in Buskerud. What I'm particularly responding to is that the government hasn't put in any kind of compensation for the high oil prices. High oil prices make, as is known, the asphalt more expensive, and again it will lead to less asphalt than is already foreseen for this year. At the same time, we know that ‘AS Norway’ has increased revenues due to increased oil prices. The money runs into the oil fund. Nevertheless, dangerous roads do not receive the upgrade required. What are the views of Lundtigen on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e816	I am pleased with the question, because finally I am given the opportunity to respond in terms of the term ‘AS Norway’. The Progress Party sees Norway and Norwegian society as a share company. Anyone who operates a limited liability company knows that the purpose of this is to maximise the value of the shares. It is such a narrow perspective that it is totally unreal that it has been allowed to develop a talk about Norway being a limited liability company. Norway is the opposite of a limited liability company. It's a society that has a completely different understanding of which values to base. It's at least the tradition of the Center Party. That's the Central Party's position in the government. As far as road is concerned, we have a government council that prioritises upgrading and maintenance. If the prices of asphalt go up, well, there will need more money to ensure upgrading and maintenance within the framework that is. A necessary consequence will then be less new construction within specific frameworks.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e823	The small - power builders are pioneers of the day in many ways. They're willing to bet, and they want to create values and employment in society. Nevertheless, they are systematically countered by the red-green politicians with lifting breaks and devastating tax policies. When the farmers at Byrkelo in the Gloppen in Sogn and Fjordane go together to build a power plant, it's just the primordial power of the towns they represent. The small power company went three million. kr in excess. The tax return from the state was 4.5 million. NOK – i.e. 141 pst. tax. When a takeover with property taxes and taxes is the percentage of formidable 165. It's thanks from the central party politicians and a red-green government. An important part of the overall level of taxation for the small industries is the rent tax. Why does the Central Party of the Right not support its proposal to raise the land-interest tax entry point to 10 MW?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e832	There were a lot of things here. Small power, small power owners and small power builders do an incredibly important job. They shall not be countered, and they shall not be countered – that is the line of the Centre Party in all its work around this. As regards the example from Byrkelo in the Gloppen, the valuation of what is to be taxed is concerned. The example shows that there is a mistake. There is an error in the system when the tax becomes such in relation to the profit, and the error is that a spot price is used rather than the actual price that the company obtains through its electricity sale. In the case of 10 MW, the Progress Party and the Right Line at that point will result in a distribution of tax relief also to the large power plants, which have a very good economy. The center party line is to promote the small power companies, and so we have a different model of how to do it. We must housekeepers with the tax reliefs, so that one reaches the ones to be reached, namely those in a exposed and modern position.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e841	It's always interesting to listen to the representative Lundtigen. Nor am I in doubt that he could have used 92 minutes, if he had had it at his disposal to explain more about whether ‘AS Norway’ — or perhaps ‘The share of Norway’ would have been more appropriate. But there were some interesting signals. That's exactly what Lundtegen said about sitting in the ground in this government, not for the sake of pleasure, but for the sake of need. It was a strategic alliance, and I sensed it almost there that the absence of alternatives made it imperative for the Center Party to be part of this. So, Lundteg mentioned Freedom Norway. There's a Christian People's Party and the Center Party on top of it. We started this session by doing something for the voluntary institutions. The government doesn't have the power to do it now. Now we're on the last day of the year, when it comes to this session anyway. Is the representative Lundtegegen satisfied with Freedom Norway and what the government has set up?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e850	In the case of Voluntary Norway, I have to say that we are satisfied because there is a completely different financial organisation of the voluntary organizations now than it was when this government joined. So it's made a big and significant effort. We want to develop it further, and it happens with firm and small steps. So to the question of strategic alliance, the Central Party is, of course, in a strategic alliance. There are three poles in Norwegian policy: it is a green pole, it is a red pole and it is a blue pole. The green pole has now gone into an alliance with the red one, because, as I said, it is better than the alternative to promoting our values. One must constantly consider what is the best option to realize its values. That is the way it is for any party in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e857	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e860	I'm going to continue where I left off in the line change, namely the situation of volunteer Norway. The representative Lundtigen said that this went with small steps in the right direction, and that the situation for Freedom Norway was better than ever. In the debate last autumn, we received a decision that was sent to the government. It was looking at the situation of the ideal drivers of health care institutions in this country. At the invitation of the government parties, we agreed. We sent the proposal that the government should come back with a scheme that ensured the voluntary institutions' working space, so that they do not enter into a tender dispute, which this government has stood for. We're now on the last day of the session. Nothing has come from the government, in other words, it has not been a political will. It stands in quite clear contrast to what happened last night, where it was absolutely political will and a document 8 was promoted, on which all parties were united. Honor be the Great One for it, but it shows that there is will, there are also opportunities. In the case of non-governmental organisations and their operation by health and social institutions, this government has no intention of ensuring that they get decent operating conditions – contrary to the fact that we have a government council that when extensions in the hundreds of millions of classes do not take place after tenders, looks very eloquent on TV and says: It tells me a lot about what can be achieved if you put political pressure on matters, and what opportunities you lose when you don't put political pressure on matters. Unfortunately, I have to say that a disappointing summary of the year we have behind us is to see the government's perception right at this point, a notion that dispels the Norwegian society in a sense, because, as HSH says, this regime continues for five to ten years, we do not have voluntary institutions as drivers of health and social services, whether it be care, social institutions, old-age homes, nursing homes – or whatever it may be. That would be a big loss. It is at least ten times more important for us in the Christian People's Party that these institutions get more reasonable operating conditions and that they take care of their situation than that the red-green government continues. So to the more general in the revised. As I said, it was not moved in one penny, so there are not so many points from the setting to discuss. But let me say that while in other countries you experience police, tear gas and demonstrations, it's of course in a completely different atmosphere we're discussing a revised budget. It says something about what a fantastic economic situation this country is in. It has also been further strengthened by unrest in the Middle East and North Africa. This is what the international economy has actually become. In the revised budget, the Christian People's Party will nevertheless re-priorities. We believe that there are urgent needs in different areas. I've mentioned booze. In connection with the care of the elderly, we believe that the government has committed a breach of agreement with the Christian People's Party regarding the guarantee of dignity. The Elder Billionaire hasn't moved on. We had that debate a few days ago, so I'm not going to repeat it. I just want to see that this is the case. I have mentioned the voluntary and non-profit sector. There we have a lot of measures that we think the government should go into, but it does not. Instead of hours, we want more teachers. That's what ensures a better school. We are proposing measures in this direction. Tax: Yes, we need a more green tax system and a more voluntary tax system. That is what we are proposing. Police, transport and poverty are other areas that the Christian People's Party prioritises in the revised budget. With this I address our proposals in the matters we have to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e883	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e888	I want to grasp some of the last thing that the representative had in mind in his speech, namely tax policy. I believe that the Christian People's Party agrees that it should be an objective that fiscal policy should contribute to redistribution. The Christian People's Party has a proposal on this in revision. Nevertheless, the party went in to remove the property tax on so-called working capital, which in reality means removing the property tax, when we dealt with this a few days ago. So the lot goes in to remove the element that makes sure that the tax system is progressive also for those with high incomes. I can't see that the Christian People's Party is proposing any other elements to ensure this progressiveness. Does the representative consider that it is fair, or that there is a good policy of redistribution, that those with the highest income are to pay percentages lower tax than others?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e895	Like Opheim's central party government partner, we are in order to eliminate the wealth tax on working capital. That's not the same thing as removing the entire property tax. It's just looking at Sweden how you've done it there. It was quite possible. I record that Minister of Industry Trond Giske is very much in agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Central Party that the wealth tax on working capital is a disadvantage for Norwegian business. It's not primarily for someone to get taxed that we're going in to do something about the property tax in this area. It is to ensure value creation and jobs in the Norwegian community. I note that the Minister of Industry is also quite clear that this has now become a problem for Norway. I also think that the government should take over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e902	Like SV, the Christian People's Party also has a strong commitment to combating poverty. But there is a close link between combating poverty and combating social differences in society. The representative of Opheim was just in the midst of a proposal from the Christian People's Party that will help to increase the differences in society. I said in my post that when we took over the government from Bondevik II, it was in the cards that we would give the biggest tax reliefs to the 10 pst. which was on the top of the income scale. But we reworked it and made sure that everyone other than the 10 pst. tax relief was granted at the top. In addition, we chose to spend the large amount of money on kindergartens. It is one of the most important things we can do to combat poverty and inequality in our society. The Christian People's Party has been sitting on its back legs and doubting the cash support until today. I would like to challenge both this with fiscal policy and the opposition to a modern kindergarten policy. Shouldn't this be reconsidered?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e910	Here it was a little bit of each place to grab hold of. As far as tax policy is concerned, I refer to the answer I gave to Opheim. If the objective of fiscal policy is to see separately which groups to hit with the highest possible tax, I can appreciate the matter from Inga Marte Thorkildsen. But the Christian People's Party actually has a slightly broader perspective on tax policy. It's: what makes sure that we have a business going on? What makes us create new jobs? I have also registered that the Minister of Industry of the Government is concerned about this. So there we are in line with him, maybe not in line with the representative Thorkildsen. We're not on the back of child care policy. We want freedom of choice, which means good kindergartens, but which also means that the parents who want it can have the opportunity to be together a little bit longer with their children. I would also like to see that the government parties had participated in a proposal we have revised on graduated kindergartens. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e919	Both the Center Party and the Christian People's Party have a strong trademark of volunteering, virtue – a virtue that is unselfish organizational work. Today, the concept of dew flows out completely. Dugnad is unprofitable work. So the representative said Syversen that the organization HSH had gone into this question. Then I have to say that in the tradition of the Center Party, HSH has no credibility as an ambassador for volunteering. HSH is the organisation for economic liberalism and stronger market forces. We learn that every time they are consulted in the Financial Committee. For the Centre Party, the voluntary sector and non-profit organisations are e.g. in the health and social sector, which needs to be further developed and which can only be further developed if market forces are corrected and damped more strongly. Does the Christian People’s Party agree?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e926	It is obvious that representatives from the government parties are talking about market forces in terms of the situation of non-profit institutions. The government parties were faced with a challenge in the debate on the throne. The government parties have not come back with anything. You let institutions go down and home with red-green blessing because of a tendering system where there is price and not quality that counts. So I'm going to recommend – and I mean it with all my heart, because I think it's something that distorts the balance of Norwegian society if we lose these institutions – that the government parties now spend time and effort and a good summer vacation to get back to Stortinget with what they promised. So it doesn't matter to me if it's HSH, which these are organized into, or other people telling the truth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e931	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e934	The left prioritizes a targeted bet in some areas where it is required that we get a much more offensive and clear course. This concerns, in particular, a necessary commitment to school, education and research, a forward-looking and innovative industrial policy, an ambitious environmental and climate policy and a targeted poverty reduction policy. The left is particularly concerned that the overall environmental profile, following the proposal for the revised national budget, has declined by about 1 billion. kr. Every year, the government cuts around 1 billion. kr in the revised national budget in relation to the ‘paper allocation’ of climate and environmental measures, which is launched in the ordinary budgetary round a few months before. The left considers it worrying not to be compensated for by increased investment in other environmental and climate areas, such as the total amount of CO2 treatment in Mongstad. public transport, climate research, increased investment in alternative energy and environmentally friendly business. The representative of Thorkildsen, who was so concerned about cutting domestically, should have thought about this. The left calls for a willingness to invest in the future — in school, research, innovation and the smallest enterprises. There is a broad political consensus that it is knowledge that we must live on in the future. Then we have to bet on it. The government itself acknowledges in the budget that Norwegian teachers are still below the OECD average in the case of continuing training, but there is not a new crown to this effect. The key to a good school is better and more motivated teachers. The left, in particular, prioritises an increased focus on getting better and more teachers. The left suggests an overall increase of 400 million in school and teachers. kr. I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that the Left proposes an additional allocation of 150 million. kr for training/teacher lift and 125 million. NOK to recruit more teachers. We need many, many more new businesses in the future if we are to ensure well-being for future generations. If we're going to get to this, we're going to have to make sure that more people start by themselves, not least more women. The left therefore proposes an overall increase of 520 million in bets on small businesses and businesses. kr and a targeted tax relief for business of about 1.4 billion. kr. In particular, I would like to draw up the Left's proposal to strengthen the social rights of the self-employed, among others. by granting approximately 160 million. SEK to increase compensation for own illness from 65 to 80 p.s., reintroduce grants for unpaid work at SkattenFUNN, reinforced commitment to travel life measures of 30 million. NOK 30 million. kr to several research and development contracts. The left considers that there is a need for an obliging escalation plan in order to be targeted on the railway. That's why the Left proposed 10 billion. kr more to rail than anyone else when the national transport plan was dealt with in Stortinget last spring. Therefore, the Left proposed more than 1 billion. kr more to the railway in our alternative state budget in 2011. And therefore, the Left proposes increased appropriations for rail, bicycle routes and other public transport of 650 million. kr in the revised national budget. The left also goes against the government's proposal to increase the NSB's profits by 93.5 million. kr. There is no doubt that the NSB needs all the additional equity company can get to solve the problems ahead of us. I read with interest Thorbjørn Jagland's punishment of the government's efforts to combat poverty in the Newspaper yesterday. There's a ref's left to join. The left has a special commitment to raising more poor children and families out of poverty. The left proposes to grant a total of 1 billion. to various measures to combat national and international poverty in the proposal for a revised national budget, inter alia. several targeted actions to grant 300 million. SEK to increase the social assistance rates by approx. 15 pst. or equivalent NOK 712 more per month for a single social assistance beneficiary. The left also proposes to allocate 75 million. DK to graduated parental benefit in kindergartens, so that the very poorest pay less than today, an increased investment in various drugrelated measures of 175 million. NOK 50 million. to various measures to help children and young people with writing difficulties and to counter drop-outs from high school. Overall, the Left presents a clear alternative to the government’s policy direction – in the setting we are currently considering. We're re-prioritizing about 4 billion. to focus on what is important to us: school, education, research, a forward-looking and innovative industrial policy, an ambitious environmental and climate policy and a targeted poverty reduction policy. Finally, I refer to the Left's proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e958	The representative Borghild Tenden has taken up the suggestions she mentioned. It is opened for a line change – the first replicator is Per Olaf Lundtigen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e963	President! There is no registered line on me.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e968	The representative of Lundtigen has now been assigned the word. The next replicator will be Gerd Janne Kristoffersen – which is not registered here, no.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e973	The Party of the Left has an affordable commitment to climate. Climate is not a matter of energy, but it is a matter of carbon; it is a question of investing in renewable carbon, not in storage carbon. In my post I said that we needed increased curiosity about reality. My question then goes on to the Left's proposal to wind up the allocation to plant skates. As the yield of the foam is currently being harvested, it is occurring in the case of a final harvest, not a pruning pruning. Without planting, a non-high-quality forest and large-scale timber production will be achieved. Large wood production thus produces renewable carbon, which replaces storage carbon. Would it have been a thought for the Left Party to have increased curiosity about the reality of the shadow?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e982	I've got this question from Lundtegen before, so I realize that the commitment is very big for that – and I understand that. The left is of course for forest. What we're not for is the granular plantation that's been going on for too long, especially in the West. Forest roads and spruce planting are subsidized by this government. We believe that in the left is wrong. It destroys much of the biodiversity in the forest. I am myself from the West and have seen what this has done. A lot of research forest has been planted that – I was about to say – simply cannot be used for anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e989	The left says that it has to be arranged for more people to start their own business. I quote from the revised national budget: ‘Then we must remove all discriminatory rules and arrangements for self-employed persons.’ As we recently discussed changes in tax rules, Left wrote that they would give self-employed workers equal rights to cover health benefits, care allowances, care allowances, etc. as usual workers. In the same note, the Left goes in to reduce social security contributions for this group. The self-employed must therefore be granted increased rights, while at the same time paying less for these rights. Does the representative tend to feel that it is reasonable for all other workers to take the bill for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1002	I am very pleased with this question, because it is quite right what the representative says, that is something we are very concerned about, it is precisely that of strengthening the social rights of the private traders. I myself went on a 1-May train, and that's not often what I do, but I do it when self-employed people stand up – and most women go there. If there is something about them, it is the injustice that exists between those who are permanently employed and those who are self-employed. I hope this government will do something to lift those women – single-husband companies – who feel unfairly treated. It was said at a hearing that they can only take up loans or something, but it's not that simple. These are people who have little initial capital. I want to ask the representative to do something to lift these, and especially women.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1011	I sympathise with the commitment of the representative Tenden. But when she went on the 1st May train, she should also have looked at some more paroles along the way and took the trouble of talking to several of the women who went on the train. In order to finance some of the good actions announced by the Left, the Left's proposal for the exclusion of trade unionists is about halving the deduction and removing the subsidies to try, among other things, to reduce them. involuntary part-time. We can add it to the desire to give great tax relief to those who really have the most – through the wealth tax – it is mainly men. It will increase the differences between men and women. In addition, there is a defensive approach to the fight against social dumping, and even warnings are issued against such an offensive attitude, because it will prevent competition on wages. There will be considerable differences between people in Norway. Is that what the representative Tenden wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1018	There were many claims here – as usual. I was actually going to say hello to the representative Thorkildsen from many of the SV ladies – I went mostly just with the SV ladies in that train with the self-employed. So, until next year, I hope the representative also goes on that train – I saw her standing on the sideline last year. We can meet in that train for next year. To the trade-union quota deduction: it is a tax credit to a special group. We think it's wrong. The representative just has to accept that we mean that. We want to spend that money differently. We're going to go back to the sum of the Bondevik II government in tax relief in its time. We want to re-prioritize that money – use it differently – for example. to strengthen social rights for women.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1027	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1030	Last night, I was at graduation for the 10th grade at the Brumunddal high school. There were 150 young people who were ready to take new leaps into life. It was a meeting of talent, with opportunities, which at the same time also faced great challenges in life. Nevertheless, there was a gathering of young people who were going to make their choices with parties in one of the world's best and safest countries to live in. In 2005, in another room, in another country, and in another place, in rural Zimbabwe, I was at a small country school a few miles outside the capital of the country. There were high school students who had stood up at 5 p.m. 4 and passed 15 km of shaving in the stump to get to school. But I also met a joy in that room, the joy of being able to get education at all and get out of material poverty. Similarities, yes: knowledge as a value for one’s own future — but at the same time great differences in the possibilities ahead of them. For the 150 in Brumunddal, three years are waiting for free high school, with all the opportunities they get later in life. We live in a good country, and it is important that we remember ourselves about it. It is important that we look around Europe and the world otherwise. And as has been said earlier in the debate, we are in many ways a privileged people. Well, there's a lot to do. That's a lot of challenges. There's a lot that's not okay. But there are so many things we don't have to think about in Norway. That is why we are also engaged in politics. And that's why we want to push this society forward. But politics can also be difficult, almost like writing poems. As Hans Børli on an occasion has said in a poem about writing poetry: ‘Just try, try fingering a rock, try following the trail after a bird in the air.’» Sometimes politics may also seem like that, but it's moving forward, and we get results. It's important that we take a closer look and we see ourselves in a larger context. As yesterday evening, a closer policy comes, a more understanding of the meaning behind the policy, and one understands why it is so important to make sure that there is sustainability in the economy over time, that there is sustainability that allows us to take care of the natural basis of the world in which we live. At the same time, the lifeline between generations becomes clear. The generation contract is kind of alive, where we see how important it is to make sure that we enable the next generation to carry on their own and common well-being. Therefore, we must not impair the possibilities of generations coming after us, in Norway or elsewhere in the world. We must look at the policy. After all, the ultimate goal or project of politics is to create a secure framework for people's lives. And we know from experience that if we can build the strong communities, that community is so strong that no human being really needs to be weak. I would like to say a few words about the situation in Europe. It varies. Many countries in Europe are doing well. We should be happy about that, because it also serves the interests of Norway and the Norwegian economy. But there are many countries where the economy is in decline, where they face enormous challenges, with high unemployment and social unrest, and where degrees of fear are now spreading. Then it's important that we put some words on our hearts that Roosevelt used when he was appointed president in 1932. He ended his inaugural speech by saying the following: The only thing we have to fear is fear itself. It's important now that we don't let fear of what can happen take root. Because it is also true that what people have been able to do is usually repairable. There are both hopes and opportunities for the future. Norway is dependent on what happens outside the world. It is therefore gratifying that the growth of the international economy has taken place significantly after the financial crisis. This is particularly true in emerging economies, such as China, but both Sweden and Germany are doing well. And, as I said, we are pleased; we can lift the flag for it. Other of our trading partners are struggling more. However, growth has not been strong enough to reduce unemployment in the OECD region. There is considerable uncertainty about future developments, with high debt in many European countries, high deficits and high unemployment. Large international support packages have been provided to Greece, Ireland and Portugal, and extensive measures have been taken by national authorities and by the EU. The trust in Greece is particularly weak. And the country needs additional emergency loans to be able to handle its commitments in the future. The EU and the International Monetary Fund work intensively to deal with the situation in the best possible way. The work on funding packages presents the euro area countries and the IMF with demanding decisions on conditions and solutions. Greece, for its part, must implement painful but necessary measures to correct its own economy. The failure of the various parties to find sustainable solutions can have very serious effects on economic development and financial stability in many other countries. If Europe does not succeed, it will also affect us. Norway is closely linked to the international economy through trade and financial links. We have learned in the past how quickly financial turmoil can spread between countries. Therefore, the best thing we can do in Norway is to keep our own house in order and conduct a sound and sustainable policy with ourselves. Then we'll be better equipped to meet the challenges that have to come. The Norwegian authorities follow the situation closely and, in view of the potential for development, both for the Norwegian economy and for the financial markets. So one final word: the objectives of economic policy are work for all, sustainable development, increased value creation and a fairer distribution and strengthening of the welfare system. It is also the basis of the revised budget presented by the government and discussed by the Storting today. In this, there is one thing that is quite clear to most of us, and that is: Yes, oil is important for the Norwegian economy. But the most important thing for the Norwegian economy and our common well-being in the future is the functioning of the labour market and the way in which working life works in the future. That's why it's so important to keep low unemployment and have a high level of participation in the world of work. In the last five years, 250,000 more people have been employed, and the proportion of people employed, particularly older ones, is increasing. It's a pleasure. The brother part of these jobs is created in the private business sector, and the time shows us that there is a basic strong productive capacity in Norwegian business. But there are some challenges, as others have pointed out: competitiveness is a major challenge. Therefore, it is necessary to pursue a tight economic policy, so it is necessary to get below the 4 p.m. limit on the rule of action when the economy is doing well, so it is so important that we have responsible trade unions and trade unions that can give us responsible income statements to make sure that we have good competitiveness. So let me just end my article in the last economic debate in this season – and we will start again for the autumn – by saying that we are faced with many challenges. But if we can do this -- if we can keep the course going, manage to keep it in order in our own house -- we haven't impaired the prospects for the future of the 150 who yesterday went out of 10th grade at Brumunddal high school, and the thousands of other tenth graders and all the others who are, who are coming, who are going to carry the future and our welfare further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1070	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1073	It is beginning to be a few weeks since the revised state budget that we are dealing with today was presented. During these weeks, while the Committee has examined it, we have, among other things, has received a lot of input from a good part that believes that there are some shortcomings – that it might have been in place to make some changes. Now it is not up to the Minister of Finance to make changes from what the government has presented to what we are dealing with today, but given that the representatives of the government parties have not found room to move on a single crown, it seems – at least on me – that the Minister of Finance has quite a lot of power over those who sit in this Chamber on behalf of the government parties. Is it not the case that the Minister of Finance also sees that there might be a need — and perhaps a little space — for some changes and some reinforcements in relation to the revised budget presented? Or is everything hurt right?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1080	Firstly, as others have also said, the revised national budget is that, and – as the Progress Party itself has said – a technical adjustment, or a check on how it goes with the budget before the fall. And we think it's a budget that's still good, a budget that also produces good results. But then it's also like that, like, for example. The representative of Thorkildsen pointed out that one has actually made some minor adjustments in some areas. But if there are not quite special events taking place in the economy, the revised national budget is never the place to make the big changes in economic policy, or the price. One gets to bring some of the recordings forward towards the 2012 budget, which will come in a few months.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1085	In this debate, we are discussing individual appropriations for good purposes, but also the major lines for Norway and the Norwegian economy. In the evening post on 9 May this year the Minister of Finance Secretary Ketil Lund was out and said that we should not pursue a climate policy that is moving businesses out of the country. I thought that was very well said. That's what the Progress Party has said, and that's what Roar Flåthen in LO has said, and that's what the NHO says. At the same time, the second in this hall from the government parties gives the opposite impression: Norway must pursue a strict policy, not allow new emissions. We also know that the climate agreement, as the government is in charge, means that one should cut large emissions in Norway – if that means that you have to move industry out of the country. When the Secretary of State of the Minister of Finance makes such positive statements, is there something that the Minister of Finance is also behind?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1094	The Minister of Finance supports his State Secretaries, and vice versa. It's kind of part of the political reality. Then it is right that this government should pursue an ambitious climate policy. However, I have not observed that there are some in this government constellation who have a burning desire to move Norwegian companies out of the country, or put down Norwegian competitive business. This means that, both here and in other areas, it is important to strike a good balance between measures that work, for example: in the case of climate and the competitiveness of these enterprises. Yes, we are going to take on major commitments in Norway in the future to bring down climate change emissions, but at the same time, it is also important that one should contribute to bringing down the total global emissions. It's basically a rather important consideration, which you have to bring with you in that discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1101	I am pleased that the Minister of Finance at the bottom of his speech acknowledged that Norway is facing a number of major challenges related to innovation and competitiveness. However, I was going to address the issue with which the Minister of Finance started. He has obviously taken inspiration from the graduation of the 10th grade in Brumunddal. I agree that there is little that inspires and motivates more than seeing children and young people who learn, who increase their skills, and who are ready for their adult life. But if we are to ensure this, we must ensure that we have good teachers, and we must ensure that teachers receive continuing training. I recorded that the Minister of Finance said, when he was at his most oratory level, that we must also have a look at the policy. If we have a look at the policy in the revised national budget, we see that the government is reducing the ambitions for continuing training of teachers. 4 000 teachers wanted continuing education, 2 500 were ambitious. Now it's down to 1,500. Is the Minister of Finance satisfied with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1111	I would like to see it possible to get more through the courses to be carried out in 2011, as far as the training of teachers is concerned, but there are also some practical factors that have made it possible that we do not get as many people through whom we really wish. But yes, training teachers, making sure that teachers are filled with knowledge, is important for this government. Knowledge is important, and it is one of the areas where we have invested significantly, and will be investing significantly in the future. We're going to go through and look at the quality of primary school. We're looking at how high school and youth evolve. We've strengthened our efforts to combat high school drop-outs. So education is a high priority area for this government -- it's been so far, and it's also going to be in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1123	I think it is liberating when the Minister of Finance draws a slightly larger sky over the political landscape and talks about the major challenges. Then I think in essence he is at his best. I'm sure those high school students too have enjoyed it, I understand. We also have a debate about how important the family is to a good society. That also means a lot for what we can call the basis for future value creation. We have received reports in the last few weeks that indicate this to a much greater extent than we have been aware of in the past. So my question to the Minister of Finance and the government is, how important is a good family policy and seeing that working families as the basis of society are one of the most basic things you can bet on in order to get a still good welfare society here in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1132	One of the areas where the government puts a lot of effort into is child protection, and we're going to put a lot of effort into child protection in the future. Unfortunately, we see that much of the reason we have to invest more in child protection is that there are fragile family structures that do not last. One of our important tasks in the future is to build up under fragile family structures, so that the family can also form the secure framework of life that children should have and that children deserve. So for me and for the government, that's an important part of the policy. Then I would also like to take the opportunity to say two words about volunteering, as the representative Syversen has mentioned in previous lines. I very much agree with the importance of the voluntary sector. What is happening now is that the Minister of Administration, who is responsible for the tendering legislation, is on the matter, is working on the matter, and then we will return to the Stortinget as soon as possible with what comes out of that review, in line with what we discussed in the financial debate last autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1139	The size of yesterday’s farm-holdings for 2011. Central to this year's settlement is a letter from the finance minister promising farmers 415 million. SEK in tax relief in next year's budget. The Prime Minister has promised the trade unionised increased deductions. According to LO leader Roar Flåthen, we're talking about thousands of rags to make it monge. Then we're quick up in the same amount as tax bills for the trade unions. At the same time, the government has promised to keep the level of taxation unchanged. So then my question is, who is going to go beyond this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1144	The specific issue in the agricultural settlement concerns the so-called ‘food inspection fee’ – it is not certain that it is the correct name, but it is at least the word in quotation marks that I get to use today – which in itself is what food producers have to pay in fees to finance the activities of the Food Authority. So it could also apply more than agriculture alone. This is a somewhat bureaucratic system, so it is also, in addition to providing relief for agriculture, an area where there is a basis for simplification. So that's also part of the government's simplification work. This will be financed, and funding will be provided in the context of the 2012 State budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1151	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1154	When we now discuss the revised budget, it is good that we also discuss the principles and convergence of a responsible economic policy. We are all in favour of a responsible economic policy, and it is important to debate how best to use the money. Even though we are rich, it gives us no right to waste the wealth of schemes or projects that have no particular social benefit. The approach of the Progress Party to oil money use is that we should spend more money on investing in Norway and building the country – not that we should go to parties and fun or through unemployment by sending more people into social security, as some may think. Government parties consider themselves responsible because they spend exactly the amount of money proposed by the government – yes, they don't change for a single dollar. From the red-greens today, we have heard that, on the other hand, the Progress Party is irresponsible, both because we are moving on money, and because we are changing on the total level. But why is this irresponsible? The cost side of the Progress Party is lower than the government itself proposed last autumn, and we do not break the action rule's measure of 4 pst. We should therefore put away the slogan rhetoric that characterises the debate and look at the realities. What we have to ask ourselves is, why is it that when we build roads or build better facilities for our older people, then the rule of action applies? If we use too much, it's defined as pressure in the economy, and we're said to have inflation. But when we build power plants or oil installations, then pressure in the economy is completely out of the question. On June 9, we adopted three oil projects — Ecofis and Firefish, with an investment framework of 64 billion. kr, Knarr, who would cost $6 billion. NOK, and the Valemon field, which would cost almost 20 billion. kr. The majority voted for all the projects, unanimously – even SV. But in that debate there was no one who said that the total sum of 90 billion. kr could cause any pressure in the Norwegian economy. Why is it that if the Progress Party had suggested using not necessarily 90, but 50 billion? For more than four years on expanding roads in Norway, it would be considered irresponsible, but when SV agrees to spend 90 billion. Is it entirely responsible, according to economic policy, for expanding oil installations? This is what we see in connection with the power generation. When the Progress Party proposed to spend 1 billion. It is irresponsible because we take money from the oil fund and increase the pressure on the economy. But when the government proposes 14 billion. kr more to Statkraft, is not mentioned as the rule of action or the pressure of the economy in one word. This is also oil money, which is going into the Norwegian economy, but through a power company. Why does road construction and care create inflation, while wind turbines do not? State power is also an interesting case. While the government boasts that it has strengthened the company by 14 billion. For the last three years, a total dividend of 22 billion has been collected. kr. So the company has been weakened by $8 billion. they keep their profits and invest them themselves. Why do we do it this way? Why are we giving 14 billion? kr with one hand and takes 22 br. kr with the other hand, instead of letting them keep the profit? Dividends that can be used in the state budget without caring about the rules of action can be taken from a power company, but you cannot take them from an oil company, and vice versa. Thus, a power company and a power plant become in practice a whitewashing machine. You can send oil money into some water turbines, and then they come out as power money, and they're perfectly legitimate to use. It shows a little bit about what kind of lack of logic there is in the totality of the rule of action. It's important that we have a debate about how to spend the money and what makes sense. While not all road projects may be reasonable, it is not possible to use the rule of action as an argument and to say that by definition they are unreasonable. Similarly, climate policy is addressed, for this is a little about how we can bear the welfare society in the future. Then we have to have a business life, an industry that creates the values. We must have good products that compete on the world market, and we must have good production methods that enable us to develop the industry and think new. Some believe that the industry is improving its competitiveness if we introduce zero tolerance for new CO2 emissions. If Alcoa is refused to build a gas-powered industrial plant, they will magically develop this technology and invest in Norway anyway. The technology that the government is postponing until 2020 is assumed to allow Alcoa to develop overnight. It's a dream. Norwegian business must have competitive conditions, which means that they will invest and further develop their industry at home, not force them to Qatar, because it is best suited to Norwegian CO2 accounting. We have to demand that they cut emissions per unit produced, so that they become more environmentally friendly year by year, but we cannot have the zero tolerance that the government has introduced, among other things. to Alcoa's project. It destroys future value creation and future well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1183	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1186	The philosophy of the Progress Party in economic policy is market, privatisation and tax relief. The suspension of this revised national budget is also continuing. We heard that earlier today, Leirstein thought there were many additions that were needed. The Progress Party shall make proposals for a number of such proposals. At the same time, there are large tax concessions. We have had this discussion in Parliament many times. But it is absolutely necessary that we again hear Solvik-Olsen's explanation of how to finance the well-being of large tax concessions. I would like to hear that philosophy one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1191	I think it's better that the representative Kolberg buys a book and reads it, so he gets more than one minute to hear the philosophy. The idea behind the economic policy of the Progress Party is to stimulate business to invest more in Norway. Entrepreneurs are encouraged to want to develop their products in Norway. This means that tax relief should be provided in some areas, because it makes it interesting to invest that capital in Norway rather than in other countries. At the same time, combining it with an economic policy allowing the market to bring forward entrepreneurs and operators competing in how best to provide a service maintains quality. So you're going to get more for the money. I recognise that the Workers' Party has a different view of it, that one must have some kind of political governance to get the ends to meet. We see that the countries that move to the market-based economy – not anarchy – increase their well-being. They often do so without having to increase the level of taxation, rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1201	The representative of Solvik-Olsen once again raised an important debate on the use of the rule of action. The lot gives the impression that a person wants to build Norway. One wants to invest in such a way that one can create values for the future, where the state is an important actor. It's a little bit strong to experience it, knowing at the same time that the Progress Party is based on economic liberalism, where market forces get more influence, and how the long-term, building perspective has a completely different character. What I want to ask questions about is related to business and climate. Climate issues are about reducing emissions from carbon dioxide, from fossil carbon sources. If we are to do that, there should be some simple principles in the economy, namely that we are charging more fossil carbon and stimulating renewable carbon. Does the Progress Party agree with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1208	The Progress Party is behind a policy in which we are to ensure that CO2 emissions are cut. We have put forward proposals on this in Stortinget. We tried to join in the negotiations on a climate settlement, but were refused by the other parties. Then we have also said about the CO2 tax, that we are in favour of a CO2 tax. But then it also has to be earmarked for measures that cut CO2. Now we have a CO2 component in the fuel tax that is twice as high as it needs to be – if you had earmarked the money to actually cut the CO2 emissions for that money, compared to today's quota prices. We don't see the CO2 argument as any reason why it's going to be a source of income for the state to tax CO2. The approach one has taken in terms of sulphur and NOx — where one introduces requirements, imposes a levy, but earmarks the money for funds that actually ticks — is good. When this government chooses to use climate and CO2 as a way to finance its state fund, we're against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1247	In the light of some of the answers given here, it is tempting to ask whether the Solvik-Olsen representative can come to a single country that has put a massive effort on tax relief and at the same time has built up well-being. But I want to pursue this carbon leakage trail, because I think that's important. It is important to take on board that this is a challenge that we must face offensively, and that is why we have also proposed that we should have a climate fund, and that is what we are going to discuss for the autumn. But one can also draw the argument so far that the industry can discharge itself of all responsibility. In the 1970s and 1980s, major protests from the process industry came as we introduced new environmental requirements, but then we have seen that the result has been that we have got a process industry that is very advanced – partly world-class – in terms of technological leaps. If we remain, go against all environmental requirements, disagree with taxes, disagree with the fact that we have to make demands on the industry, then we are at risk of being accomplices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1256	Once again we see that SV does not follow what the Progress Party proposes, but only cultivates an image of what the Progress Party is irresponsible of. Firstly, climate fund: it was promoted by the Land Association of the Oil Industry, OLF. The party of progress embraced it immediately. SV is still against it, officially, on the Stortinget. It's good if SV now turns. In relation to industry and carbon leakage: the representative of Thorkildsen said in this room in 2009 that this government will not grant free CO2 allowances to any industry in Norway after 2013. That would lead to a huge carbon leakage! This government has said that they will not give CO2 compensation to the industry because of increased CO2 costs in the electricity price. It'll give you a carbon leakage. The success of NOx and sulphur is that progressive reduction requirements have been introduced – not zero tolerance. This is a problem, and this is the criticism that the Progress Party is targeting against CO2 policy, that zero tolerance is introduced, which makes it impossible for industry to make gradual improvements, and which actually means moving industry out of Norway, to countries that do what makes sense, namely, to make gradual reductions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1282	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1285	Our revision of the budget is in stark contrast to what is happening outside the Greek Parliament, what is happening outside the Barcelona State Parliament, and what is happening in those countries that are currently struggling to achieve an economic policy that is sustainable for the future, and to stabilise the economies of their own countries. The fact that we're in a completely different situation doesn't mean that in every area we're going to pretend that we're not affected by the things that happen around us, or that some of the forces and trends that are elsewhere have a meaning. It is therefore essential to ensure that we have a responsible, long-term economic policy, a responsibility that is concerned with providing good housing – or as the Minister of Finance tends to say, that we take care of the house, our household, every single day – but also a long-term economic policy that ensures that we continue to take the right steps, so that we can finance and develop our welfare society as we know it. Then there are many challenges that we can do more about, and solve better, than what stands out in the revision we have now. Then there are some of the steps that go, that go in the wrong direction, and some of the steps that are not big enough to secure the Norwegian society for the future. The right has defined its vision for Norwegian society, and it is ‘a society that provides opportunities for everyone’. It was a vision we defined for our need to create an opportunity society, where we can cultivate people's ability to create development, create a better public sector, develop their jobs, create new businesses, make use of the creative. But it's a fact that not everyone is going to make it, and that someone is going to need more help, and that's why the scope should be there for everyone. That's why we've also been systematically concerned with the questions that make us have class distinctions again in our society. The greatest class distinction we have in our society — and which has been growing — is the distinction between those who are out of work and those who are in the workplace. When we start summing up all the statistics on inequalities in our society that are not just income statistics, it's often about the relationship with the world of work. Therefore, one of the most important things we do is to use the strategies that enable the most – in a longer part of our lives – to keep in touch with the paid work. That's why it's so incredibly important to focus on knowledge in school. Knowledge in school, and raising Norwegian school, may be at the heart of getting to a society with less inequalities in the years to come. Investing in each child is the most important thing we do to invest in the ability of the future to solve challenges and to ensure that more people are able to keep their jobs. Investing in each child today is about taking the right steps. In some areas, this budget does not go far enough. In the change of lines between Jan Tore Sanner and the Minister of Finance, one of the areas that is a challenge was highlighted. Everyone knows – and I believe there is agreement on this in every school debate we have – that the teacher's competence, and the teacher in the classroom, is the most important thing to gain better knowledge in school and to lift all the students. Nevertheless, we see that the level of ambition in terms of continuing education for teachers is low in this budget, because you haven't heard what the Right has said throughout the last year, that the way the government has organized this is not good enough, and then we're not going to achieve our goals. It cannot take 30 years for today’s teachers to reach a level of continuing education that makes them feel that they have received the offer they will have – but it does so with the government’s ambition level. 70 pst. by Norwegian teachers, they believe that they need continuing training to master the job and do a better job in today's classroom. It will take 30 years to achieve that goal of this government's ambition level. Therefore, we need to take greater steps towards the important things that make Norwegian children meet a better school – the important steps that make Norwegian children face a future where they do not fall off the labour market because their skills are not good enough, and that allows them to work long in our society because we will need it. That's why it's these little steps that maybe today is the most important investment for the future, the provision of the good school, the good teacher, the provision of space and the ability to bet on knowledge and skills. That's why the Right has made it one of its most remote issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1300	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1303	Norwegian policies are characterised by two basic features. One is that we have a government that sits on its sixth year, and then a clearly divided opposition. This debate demonstrates this. But everyone knows that an alternative government and an alternative economic policy, which we are discussing today, are about cooperation between the Right and the Advance Party. Erna Solberg, as I understand it, takes the aim of becoming Prime Minister in Norway, and she now spoke very wisely – I think – in her talk of accountability and long-term economic policy. I agree with the considerations the representative had on that point. It may almost seem a little premature in the sense, politically, of these constant questions about the relationship with the Progress Party. But can Solberg now comment on Siv Jensen's statement that the rule of action should be on the scrappowder?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1310	I can comment on that, because I disagree. I believe that the rule of action is an important political instrument for the long-term economic governance of Norwegian society. But it is also important to remember that when we introduced the rule of action, we did so on some premises that this government has broken. The premises were clear and clear, the premise was that we were going to take more money into the Norwegian economy, not to consume them today, but to invest them in the future. This government hasn't. They have spent most of the money they have taken to consume today. That is why I think it is a good idea to arrest others for the use of money. But I think it's time for the government to start to see that they don't use this money to improve our competitiveness, they don't use them to invest in education, they don't use them to invest in research, and that's why we fall on all international rankings in this regard. It is a danger to the Norwegian welfare society in the future. We're actually ruining too much of the good that's in our society, if we don't get it done.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1317	Another important policy area in which the Right has said that they are concerned is the climate issue. It was not affected in the post of the representative of Solberg, but I do not take it to income because it is not important for the Right, on the contrary. I want a confirmation from the Right Leader Party that the climate agreement is on track, and that the recording, for example. has come from businessman Frank Bakke-Jensen on Stortinget, not representative of the party. Can the Right Leader here and now confirm that the Right is on the Climate Agreement and will do so no matter what happens after the next elections? And can she also confirm that it is important that Norway fulfils its climate obligations and that about two thirds of the cuts are to be taken nationally?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1324	The right is on the climate deal, and we have said that it is incredibly important for future generations that we take international, but also national, care to do something about the climate challenges. And so the representative Frank Bakke-Jensen is a good representative of the Right, and what he actually said was that he believed that the climate agreement could not be an obstacle to developing more industry in Norway. We believe that this is possible within the climate agreement we have. You can see that from the article written by Nikolai Astrup and Frank Bakke-Jensen. We believe that it is fully possible. If it turns out that this Alcoa aluminium mill is profitable for other reasons, it's quite possible to say that it could be an area where we could be involved in costing CO2 cleaning from the state. Then we had solved it within the climate agreement. It would be a better solution than, for example, the project in Mongstad, which has gone out in time and moved out in time. We have to have a way of being flexible. The main challenge is that it's been three years since we adopted the climate agreement, without the government having come back to the Storting in terms of how we're going to implement it. It is the greatest threat to the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1335	A strong business life is crucial for financing any society. Norway has an economic capacity to go a little ahead in modernising, among other things. Norwegian goods-producing businesses, so that they can take greater account of nature’s resilience. In the change of line, the party of progress has said here in the past that one is to increase the fees on fossil non-renewable carbon, i.e. the use of oil, gas and coal, while one will label the fees – as I understood it – for climate-friendly production processes and renewable carbon sources. My question is: Does the Right agree with such a use of fiscal policy towards fossil carbon sources, and does it agree that it should be earmarked, which will be entirely innovative in Norwegian economic policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1344	In principle, carbon and emissions are to be praised. That's what the polluter has to pay. Then there are different pricing mechanisms. The fact that we have an allowance system is a pricing mechanism within which large parts of Norwegian business are involved, and so they have to pay a price for the emissions they have. So I think it is worrying that the price at the European level today is actually too low in relation to what we had foreseen in order to get to the climate effects we were going to have. However, with higher economic activity in Europe, the price is likely to rise gradually. It is not remote from us to increase CO2 taxes in some of the areas outside the quota system, in order to price carbon in that way. But we're going to go through this whole climate change package. We're waiting for what the government will do, and then we'll systematically go over where to turn these charges. But we're not generally attached to the earmarking of these fees. We don't think that's necessarily the best solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1352	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1355	It's interesting to sit and follow the debate, and you do some reflections: what's the most important thing for us people – for you and me – when we get back to what it means to us? Then there is one point: the family – that the family is doing well. It's the most important thing. The second point is employment, housing security, in terms of housing loans and stability in the housing market. The next is that you have good public services, not least for the youngest and the oldest, who need the most public services, and that you have a security in everyday life. If we just go back two years in time, when we had revised the national budget for debate, it was a completely different reality. Then the financial crisis was in a way much closer to us, it was much more real, there was great uncertainty about the job market and about the housing market. But we now see in the revised national budget that things are going well. We see that unemployment is on its way down – not up – that most people have wealth growth and real wages growth. We saw it yesterday in the municipal bill that there is an improvement in the services aimed at the youngest and the oldest, and that things are going well in Norway. And as Vømmøl says – we are especially happy in the Vømmøl in the Center Party: “The e itjnå that comes to ten seas.” So there has been a good policy that has led us to manage to sail through the tough waters that have now been. But something is very vulnerable when you look at the Norwegian population. When you look at the debt ratio of the younger part of the population, it's worryingly high and on its way up. That's why it's so important that we have a good economic policy in the future, because those who want to be hit hardest and first, are the youngest part of the population, first because they have too high and rising debt, and secondly because they're the most vulnerable in the labour market, so that they're the first to go outside. If we look a little bit in Europe, to Spain, as part of us are going to travel to this summer, every other youth we meet in the street, without work, is a frightening reality. We can go to Greece and see what happens there. If you look at the Baltic, it's been a real wage decrease of 20 pst. If we go a little further than Europe – to North Africa and the Middle East – there has been huge political unrest there in winter. This has many reasons, but one of the main reasons, in addition to the purely political one, is that the younger generation does not have hope in terms of work, and that there has been a challenging situation also in terms of family, food and security in everyday life. The trends that we see out there are going to affect us whether we want to or not. One of the most interesting things in the last month's Norwegian political change of words is two reports: the Brochmann Committee and the Kvalheim Committee, on how to have our welfare society in the future – because it's going to be more popular migration, whether we want it or not. We are already seeing how these samples point out that there is a two-part division in Norwegian society and that we must succeed in integration policy. There has been some very important government intervention in terms of integration policy in recent years. One is that labour market measures have addressed a much more active policy with new opportunities, new opportunities, targeted schemes to bring people from passiveness to activity. But the most important structural approach from our point of view is the division of responsibilities between immigration and integration into two different departments, with a completely different focus on integration, and the Kvalheim Committee is now daring to set down a NOU that makes the breadth and challenge of integration visible. This year’s revised national budget shows Norway’s success and Norway’s good governance. It is not the big gap here, it is still escalating on trade, and continuing to escalate on labour market measures. Yesterday we had a municipal proposition that showed a continued escalation when it applied to the youngest and oldest in the welfare community. But it's a demanding time, we have many new challenges, not least in the field of integration, so that we don't get a stronger and stronger two-way division of Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1372	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1375	Fighting violence Vedum was concerned that young people in Europe are losing jobs, and it is serious enough. I am concerned that we in Norway, out in District Norway, have a fumigation around the municipalities. Youth moves away from small municipalities and into a larger center. One of the reasons is that it's so expensive to live out in District Norway. For this reason, the Progress Party has proposed lowering the fuel tax, in order to make it easier for families with children to drive their children for acting or training. That's what the Center Party has done. They choose to use the same medicine they've used in the past – the same drug that doesn't work and that has led to more and more deportation. Why does the Center Party want that? Then I have a question about the rule of action: the center party wants to use approx. 500 million. kr on a lightning train. How are they going to finance it within this rule of action?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1384	If we had got a speed train for 500 million. NOK, we would have done it tomorrow. It'll probably be a lot more expensive than that. Show me that formula. With regard to the development of residence in Norway, I do not agree with the premises of the questioner, as this has been a positive development – the trend has turned around. There has been population growth in a large number of municipalities – much larger than in a long, long time. It's just looking at the numbers of the SSB. Population growth has been much more steady now than it has been in recent years. So we believe that some of the most important measures we as politicians are taking are to provide a good and equivalent public service provision around the whole of Norway. One of the main efforts of the government has been in municipal economy, so that there should be equally good school and care provision wherever you live, and that there should be a good childcare provision wherever you live. We think it's right to bet on culture, so that there are good cultural offerings spread around the country. We don't think the gas price is the biggest challenge for Building Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1393	The representative Schlagsvold Vedum tried to cover a lot in his post, and then it gets a little jumpy, but he also jumped into the debt issue. It's pretty interesting. There are many who are now warning against the build-up of debt by households. Then you can see it as a general issue, that we have a policy that in many ways does not stimulate saving. The right has now given priority to the BSU in several rounds. It is clear that in the start-up phase, young people are most vulnerable to debt build-up and the fragile situation in this context. Financial supervision has also required a minimum of 10 pst. equity on purchase. It makes it very difficult for young people to establish themselves. Why do we not see from the Central Party any sign of support for the Right's proposal to strengthen the BSU when all the party's spokesmen are so concerned about the debt situation, which in itself ought to deal with us all?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1402	With regard to Youth Housing Saving, the Center Party has a long history. When we had Minister of Finance Gudmund Restad, Housing Saving for Youth was one of the measures we chose to improve then. They have also been improved during this period of government. We believe that Housing saving for young people is a very good and targeted measure, which we still want to invest in, and believe it is right to have an increase in. We've done that, and then you have to discuss how fast you're going to increase it further.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1407	The party went into this government with great enthusiasm, and the marriage was somehow concluded. Last year, I think, the Center Party defined it as a matter of reason more than a love marriage. This year, Lundtigen defines it as a strategic alliance. It falls under completely different definitions than love marriages and marriages of reason — it is well in and of course about a pro forma marriage where you want to achieve something else. It says a little bit about the enthusiasm for the central government project. Is it that the enthusiasm for politics is about to disappear because you really don't have any common big project you want to implement anymore? Is it such that the love that was there for some years has disappeared and become a technical design? And is it true that the last time I saw the Battle of Vedum was really happy, when he had agreed with the Left on predators last night?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1414	The last one is right, because that was the last time we saw each other. Then I was happy. So that's absolutely right. Then I was very happy, actually! It showed that we here in the Great Britain can jointly take good political action, and I'm proud to have participated in it. When it comes to the relationship with the Workers' Party and SV, it's very good. We were proud that we were able to get to the historical alliance in 2005, because there were old historical dividing lines, not least between the Centre Party and the Workers' Party, which was passed over, and we managed to form government together. We managed to run together for four years. Once again, we were able to enter the 2009 elections, together, and win it, was a great day in the history of the Centre Party and a great day for the Red-Green Community. That there's a little knife between good friends, should just be missing! This is about power, and there are always different assessments. But basically, there is a good and solid cooperation between the Centre Party, the Workers' Party and the SV, with which we want to continue, and with which we want to win the elections in 2013. I think the challenge is bigger for the Left considering where they belong than for us who thrive well in the cooperation we're part of.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1424	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1427	Throughout the ageing period, the right parties have stated that the value creation in Norway is too poor and that we are not using our oil money properly. The right parties are dissatisfied that we do not give tax credits, and are dissatisfied with the investment in education, research and commerce. But while the right parties complain and criticize, we record others as doing very well in the Norwegian economy, and that far more jobs are being created now than in the last time the party Right put in government. Growth in the Norwegian economy is broadly based. Both private and public consumption rose markedly last year, and the growth in exports of traditional goods continued. At the same time, the decline in corporate investment was turned to cautious optimism throughout the year. Production growth in most industries was the strongest in industry, construction and business services. The rise has continued into the current year. Since 2005, 250,000 new jobs have been created in Norway, the vast majority of them in the private sector. In business there is optimism and confidence in the future, despite all the unrest around us in the international economic situation. The main concern of the business community is that they are able to recruit enough labour and skills into their businesses. That optimism and belief in the future is important to take care of, and we're not going to talk it down. On Wednesday this week, the Prime Minister was present at a business seminar in Trondheim. In yesterday's Address Paper we could see a lot of headlines from his meeting with the business community, and we could read a little funny comment from Gunnar Okstad. He gives the Prime Minister quite rightly that the red-green majority represents major business simplifications, and refers to the removal of the audit obligation to small businesses. He gives us exactly the right place where right-wing people talk, the red-green government and the big crowd. There is rare reading in a newspaper that at least I perceive as very kind to the party Right. The dissatisfaction with the red-green effort on education and research that the opposition is putting forward is difficult to understand. I notice that the representative Jan Tore Sanner in his reply to the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen said that the Right is not for the privatisation of the school. I think that's an eye-catching statement. When we took over in 2005, we stopped a huge privatization wave in our school – a large-scale privatisation that would have drained the public school for economic and professional resources, demolished the decentralised school structure we have in high school, and made it very difficult for young people outside the city to complete the entire 13-year-old school run near home. That would have been a major setback for the anti-dithering policy we are facing. That is why we resolutely stopped that wave of privatisation. We have implemented the Knowledge Promise, which was widely agreed in Stortinget. But we gave it a red-green stamp through ‘early effort for lifelong learning’, which was the title of a very good big message Øystein Djupedal promoted in 2006. In addition, we have strengthened the municipal economy so that the school owners are actually able to equip the school to focus on basic skills of reading, writing and math. Under the right, there was focus on school cuts, and there was great concern about the national samples. It does not promote professional content or a good learning environment in school. We have completed the child hail lift of times and a systematic effort on child protection. It is a major and important contribution to children's learning. Extending the number of hours of free lessons in the SFO has also helped to improve the school, and the results are now coming forward, even when we are being measured in an international context. I hope that the representative Erna Solberg has also come with me. This promise in education, or at school, is a major contribution to the future creation of value here in the country and helps to ensure the well-being of new generations. We live in an incredibly privileged country – we all agree on that, even though we have different views on road choices. We have to take care of the good society we have to further develop by keeping order in our own economy. We are doing this through the good budget we have for 2011, and through the revised budget we are adopting today. We spend the big money on the important things that promote value creation and ensure well-being.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1450	On this last meeting day of this big year, and for my part my last year as parliamentary leader, it is natural to stop a little and sum up. First of all, I would like to draw the lines from the Storting's first debate this big year, the throne debate, and the initiative of the Christian People's Party there. On behalf of the Christian People's Party's big group, I then invited the other party groups to discuss the future of the ideal businesses. Over the year we have experienced a lot of understanding of our vision, a lot of kindness. We have known resistance whether it is a lack of understanding of these challenges, system resistance, or a lack of political will. We have had rounds of rounds in the committees, in the health committee, in the family and culture committee and in the nutrition committee. We have had a number of rounds in the plenary here in the context of spontaneous and regular Question Time, budgetary procedure and proposals for representatives. The majority of the population has gone a long way in terms of majority comments and debates here in the Chamber. For example, it says: ‘The majority believe that the non-profit sector has an independent self-esteem, that it is a political task to ensure the preservation of the sector.’ ‘Non-profit actors shall meet with respect and shall be guaranteed framework conditions that are stable and predictable’. The majority have asked the government to establish more long-term framework conditions for the ideals. We have asked for special treatment because the ideals have a different role, different competences and different characteristics than purely commercial actors, and the majority have stressed that it is urgent. Representatives of the government have assured us throughout the year that the government is working on the matter and will return to Stortinget as soon as the work is completed. We are pleased that the government is working on the matter, but in a few hours this year is all about. The Christian People's Party had in the longest hope that the government would return to the Storting before the summer, but it did not happen in the revised national budget, nor in any other form. We agree that the situation is acute, but we must therefore note that despite political goodwill and good political intentions, the situation in the non-profit sector is very critical. According to Freewill Norway, 17 non-profit institutions in the area of child protection, alcohol and care for the elderly have closed down this year. While the grass grows, the cow dies, and then it does not help with goodwill; it is action that must be done. We have noticed that the Prime Minister sees the self-esteem of the non-profit sector as important and will work with the Christian People's Party to find good solutions that best facilitate ideal offers. The Prime Minister has said clearly that the Christian People's Party and the Government Parties agree that we do not want free competition and non-discrimination, but special conditions and arrangements for the survival of the ideal institutions. But as we talk, the institutions die. Norway is changing, and we're upset about it, because here we have a government that wants to, but doesn't get it done. The feedback from the ideal actors – we have had a round with them now before this debate – is ready. Reality has generally not improved, uncertainty remains high. The government has still not taken action to make structural changes in purchasing practices, and we see that the negative trend is evolving. We are disappointed that the government has not yet come back to Stortinget with concrete proposals, and we must again underline the urgency of the situation. We expect that when the Stortinge come together for the harvest, there are concrete proposals on the government's table that can prevent any development from wishing. To give a little hint, the Minister of Health, with the power she has in health businesses, is actually going to give an instruction to all health businesses to freeze these processes until a new regime is put in place. It is for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality to give an instruction to Buffetat that the same thing happens there until this is in place. It's also possible to find solutions. We believe that there are such solutions, not least in the hospital sector, that have been practised throughout the time we have had health businesses. Finally, let me take the opportunity to thank for the cooperation during my period as parliamentary leader of the Christian People's Party. The dominance of the majority government has, of course, laid its head and put its mark on the work of the Storting in these years. I would nevertheless point to the occasion for the Christian People's Party to put its mark on important political settlements: church-state, retirement elderly, climate, private schools and yesterday's predatory settlement. I look forward to continuing my work for the country and for the party in new roles, and have faith that the Christian People's Party as the Christian Democratic Center Party we are will continue to shape Norwegian politics in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1476	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1479	It's nice to be the one who gets to run a line to Høybråten on his last day as parliamentary leader. I have a question. The Christian People’s Party states that it is ‘a goal that fiscal policy contributes to redistribution’. Nevertheless, the party went in to remove the property tax on so-called working capital, in effect removing the property tax, when we recently addressed the tax reform evaluation message in 2006. So the lot goes in to remove the element that makes sure that the tax system is progressive for those with the highest incomes. I can't see that the Christian People's Party proposes any alternative, and then my question is: What will the Christian People's Party do to ensure the party's goal of a tax policy that contributes to redistribution?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1486	Let me first arrest the representative Irene Johansen in terms of the claim that we are going in to remove the property tax. We don't, but we want to remove it on working capital. We believe that many solid investigations, both within and outside the borders of Norway, show that this is possible. We are working with all the trade organisations on this proposal, and there are organisations that are also most concerned with distribution. We believe that this peculiar tax burden on business prevents sensible investment and a sensible development for business. We're not in favour of personal tax relief on the scale that some other parties in this room do, but we want to lay the foundation for a viable business life. That's why we're doing it. I can assure the representative that we will do so if we come to power and get a majority for this proposal, within frameworks that contribute to good distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1493	I also want to take the opportunity not to congratulate Dagfinn Højbräten on the last day of work – it may be a bit of a funny embrace – but to say that for many years, from a young age, I have followed both life here and life on the outside. And I have great respect for the efforts of the Christian People's Party under the leadership of Dagfinn Høybråten – many things that have changed Norway. And that's also where we're really, that unfortunately there's still something unexplained in this room and in this room after two years in a new magnification period. I had hoped that Dagfinn Højbräten, in addition to what we have in common, namely the effort to improve the framework conditions for the voluntary sector, could use one of the last occasions as a parliamentary leader to clarify the political message and the parliamentary situation on the civil side. When he looks back on his years here in Stortinget, it is not natural that the Christian People's Party continues to turn to the Workers' Party and the left side of Norwegian politics – and say good things to Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1500	I sincerely hope that both Erna Solberg and especially Siv Jensen are doing well and getting better. With regard to the political position of the Christian People's Party in the landscape, I can say that our big group is comfortable with its centre position. It means that in this Chamber, under the parliamentary majority that is now, we are committed to finding solutions that can give a majority – I pointed out some examples where we have done so. But we are in opposition to the sitting government. And we haven't just had fewer reasons to be in opposition to the sitting government, with the insidiousness that we've seen in matters that we're concerned about, and that the government says it's also busy, like that. voluntary institutions, and with the aggressive attacks on the core issues of the Christian People's Party that we have seen from this government, most recently attacked by the Labour Party rapporteur's candidate in Oslo today on cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1509	I would also like to express great respect for the role played by the Dagfinn Høybräten both as a Council of State and as a parliamentary leader. It is very significant that when a trip around, there is one thing that Dagfinn Højbråten remembers and notices, namely the smoking ban. Many of us are very grateful for a dare to drive it through. The exposure of the Christian People's Party to NPISHs is strong, and the message is clear. We, who are part of the government alliance, understand the need to point out more results in this area if the Christian People's Party is to view the government parties as good tools for central parts of its policy. When I asked for contributions, it was at the property tax. If one of the taxes on wealth defines working capital to include financial assets, the property tax will only apply to private houses and cabins. And when houses and cabins are to be valued by market value, it's in terms of property taxes. Is that the Christian People's Party line?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1518	Let me first thank the representative Per Olaf Lundtegen for his recognition and say that for my part I consider the representative Lundtegen to be a courageous politician, who dares to stand up to his opinions, even when he goes straight against his own government – as he did last week in a matter here in the Chamber. I believe that as a politician you are dependent on being able to stand for something – even when it's not popular – if you think it's right, and be willing to take the fight it requires. It is also the representative of Lundtigen's willingness to do so, and I am pleased that there are such things. To the issue of taxes on wealth, I have to say that, under the auspices of several business organisations, with both agricultural organisations and the NHO at the head, there has been a good borderline with regard to the delimitation of working capital, to which the Christian People's Party supports itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1525	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1529	As I am the first speaker after Dagfinn Højbrätten, I would like to take the opportunity to thank a good and close cooperation with a representative who I respect very much for the job he has done. I would like to comment on a document 8 which is being discussed in this matter today, namely our proposal for a Green Tax Commission. We know that the climate challenges we face are enormous. If we're going to be able to do something, everyone has to stand up. If we're going to be able to do something, it's absolutely necessary that we also take action nationally. The left has faith in the use of the market, the use of market mechanisms and the ability of the market to re-distribute and make wise choices about the environment. Ten years ago, there was a broad consensus that it was future, that was the big grips we could take, that was the way we could bring about climate change. It was the finance minister we now have, who actually also received the last green tax commission. A lot has happened since then, a lot has changed. We've got a lot of knowledge, but we haven't introduced any green tax change. The left believes that now is the time to wake up, now is the time to take the steps we have to take for the future. I think the explanations for Inga Marte Thorkildsen are pretty bad, and the comments look like a glide away from the whole understanding of the climate challenges. I want to mention two promises that the Left takes in its revised budget. For us, the fight against poverty has been important, especially in relation to poor children, children who do not choose their own childhood, but who experience that childhood is limited by growing up in a poor family, and when it can have tragic consequences. That's why we're doing a lot of work both in social welfare, in child protection and in school. We are now going into a new election campaign, but in the previous election campaign, the then leader of the Left Party, Lars Sponheim, invited to a joint effort to combat poverty. That was all for in the debate programmes, but when we presented our proposal as the first proposal in this session, all the proposals were voted down. The government was busy eradicating poverty, so it was fighting poverty, and then it ended up the only thing that's important is fighting wealth. It's not that all the poor are getting richer because some rich are getting poorer. The government representatives stand here and say things are going so well. The representative of the Central Party pointed out with a certain degree of recognition that the ‘e itjnå that comes to sea’, and there is the main concern of the Left of the revised national budget we have now in front of us. Not to bet on what is the major challenge of the future, not to bet on research and education, not to know that you get a wave of students standing there without getting a place to study, not to prepare our places of study by having enough scientific staff to accept that wave – is not to have an understanding that ‘the next time you go to sea’. In fact, there has to be some action today to tackle the challenges of the future. One can't just lean back on what we've been able to achieve. I have to say that the most joyful message in this revised budget is that the Right has now turned around in the financing of continuing education and training, and I agree with us that this is where the State needs to step in more strongly to get the help of continuing education and training of teachers. It's one of the most important steps we have to take for knowledge policy in the future. This revised national budget, and not least the process around it, has shown that the government project is becoming a government wear and tear. As I said, we talked about the great love marriage when we started the project. The representative Lundtigen said last year that this was a matter of reason, while today he is talking about it as a strategic alliance, i.e. a pro forma. There is the lack of a project, the lack of some great things you can do for the community, which this debate bears the mark. Government parties act as completely powerless in relation to what is presented to the government. Debates and hearings in this house are of no importance, because you are not allowed to change anything. The left believes that we should bet and seize for the future, and in order to achieve that, we need a new green tax commission. We need to change from red to green taxes, and we need climate action for the future, the renewal of the welfare state, business investment and not least knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1550	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1553	When we look at both the alternative budgets and the revised budget, the Left and the Progress Party are miles from each other. We have asked before, without really getting any proper answers, and since it is the last meeting before Stortinget should leave each other, ask us again. Former party leader Lars Sponheim guaranteed in the previous period that the Left would generally not cooperate with a government of which the Progress Party was part. We wonder, then, is it still fixed, or does the Left open up for cooperation with the Progress Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1560	It's possible that it's coming as a bomb at the Eldegard representative, but what we're going into now is a local election. The message I've given to my local politicians, almost 7,000 people who make elections, is that they get to cooperate with just who they want, based on what they want to do politically. I have a political commitment. The reason I spend 16, 17, 20 hours a day in this house is because I want to implement a policy. We want to do something about the climate challenges. We want to do something to make Norwegian business grow in the future, and we want to do something for knowledge. Then one thing is clear: we have to change the government. It's going to fight the Left for in the election. My guarantees are not linked to who you are going to cooperate with or not cooperate with. My guarantees are linked to politics. If you vote on the Left, you get a better climate policy. You get a business policy that will strengthen business, and you're going to have a knowledge policy that makes us strongly equipped for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1567	I record that the representative Skei Grande is very busy with the marital society of the government, but she is very shy from talking about her own marriage doctor – or looser – relationship, if she, or possibly, would come to power. What I want to ask is: when the representative Skei Grande now says straight that she will fight to change government, does she expect it to be with the Progress Party and the Right we will have a glittering environmental policy in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1574	I'm sorry I'm single. I should have done something more about it, but that's just the way it is. We want to work together to get political solutions. I agree with what the leader of Bellona said when they were celebrating yesterday, that it turns out that the Left has managed to get more together with the Right and Christian People's Party than SV does with the Workers' Party. What you have to take as a recognition is that the big backward parts of this house, when it comes to getting something on the environment, are the Workers' Party and the Advance Party. It is important to be able to create a buffer against the two parties together in the climate, so I am absolutely sure that the Left and the SV will be able to stand together to do the important climate interventions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1583	I belong to those who believe that the expression marriage – whether it is the form or not – belongs to private life and not to politics. That's why I don't remember ever saying that the Central Party's participation in government is a "sense of reason". It's far from my tradition. On the contrary, I believe that a'strategic alliance' is a good expression. It is not least an expression that is firmly anchored in the other two government parties as well. I'm pretty sure there's understanding, not least in the Workers' Party, where one chose to go into a different strategic alliance than what one has done before. The left has previously had a trademark. The trade mark is attenuated. The nature of the property is weakened. One becomes more unclear, and it becomes more like shooting on a tank with a hail when one perceives how much of the left stands for. Had it not been a thought that the Left had made its trade mark clearer, a trade mark of some values, which has previously been close to the Centre Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1590	I have to admit that I did not have time to check which central party representative it was that last year used the term ‘sense of reason’. I'll do that afterwards. But my point is that if it's hard for the representative Lundtigen to get the profile of the Left, I'd like to use the remaining 40 seconds for it. We want to be a clear liberal party. We want to be a liberal party that fights for the individual citizen, against the systems. That is why we are now going to the elections with the slogan 'People first!'. We want to put man in front of the systems. That's what's so strange, because it's been a tradition that the Left Party and the Center Party have come together. But the Center Party is with the Social Democrats. Then there are the systems that are most important. Then the citizens are no longer the most important. Then there are the systems to be repaired, and there are the systems that are in focus, and to say as the prime minister, when some systems go beyond the individual, it is important that someone stands up for the systems. The left wants to do the opposite. We want to stand up for the individual citizen.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1599	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1602	The financier George Soros warned during his Norway visit this week that we could be on our way into a new international economic setback. Responsible politicians should always be cautious about predicting, and we have a special responsibility to avoid crisis maximisation. At the same time, we have to see the reality in our eyes. That is why I would also warn against the danger of a new economic setback. And Norway is not protected. If the situation requires that, we are ready to act again, for there are several features that are individually worrying, which together can reinforce each other and create serious situations. The first and most serious move is high and increasing government debt in many countries. The state debt in the major industrialized countries has now become as high as it was after the Second World War, when the countries had financed high military spending with loans. In particular, the situation in Europe is serious — Greece, Portugal, Ireland. The international community has contributed packages of support to several countries, yet there is considerable uncertainty. The indebtedness situation of Greece is very difficult – with a government debt of unimaginable 330 billion. euro. Of the countries measured by the recognised credit rating agency Standard & Poor’s, no country has lower creditworthiness than Greece. They have great problems paying interest and repayments on their debt. There is now a need for additional support packages and emergency loans. The situation is serious. If the countries under threat are unable to settle separately, banks will be affected by loss of sovereign debt and by economic decline. Our own governor has recently said that this interdependence between government finances and banks across national borders could threaten the stability of the world economy. But countries like the United States and Japan also have major debt problems. In the United States, the statutory ceiling for federal debt has now been reached. The country must borrow to serve its debt and no agreement has been reached to raise the ceiling or to cut the budget. The situation is serious in the United States as well, and it seems stuck. The second serious move is that economic growth in many countries is not as strong as many had hoped. It's particularly bad because the growth isn't strong enough to help bring unemployment down. In the United States, there is evidence that the growth of national products is slowing down and that the improvement in the labour market is stopping. The figure for the last month was significantly below what was expected. Also in other countries, we see that unemployment has stuck. Countries such as Ireland and Slovakia still have an unemployment rate of close to 15pst. In Spain, they see the 20s. Every five Spaniards are out of work. In the euro area, the unemployment rate is still around 10 pst. – only poor 0,2 pst. lower than one year ago. The third worrying feature is that the world's stock exchanges have fallen a lot lately. The situation in Europe and the United States frightens investors. Also here at home we see that Oslo Børs this week reached the lowest level so far this year and has fallen by about 10 pst. since the beginning of April. The fourth serious move is more long-term. Many of the countries hardest hit by the debt situation also have an ageing population. Thus, they face expenditure on pensions, health care and care, which will only increase in the future. Individually, this is a worrying move. Even more serious when they work together. The indebtedness situation makes countries unable to meet the high unemployment rate as we know it works, namely by increasing public demand and thus creating activity and work. Today, in Europe, we have over 20 million unemployed people. This affects the individual and is a defeat for society — a solid waste of resources. We had hoped that it would be passing, but we see that the fight to get the unemployment down again will be hard and long too many countries. Once again, we see that the unemployment rate goes up more easily than it goes down. The large debt also means that many countries cannot finance the increased expenditure on pensions and health. Thus, they must implement dramatic cuts in public budgets – cuts that will affect the welfare of most people. Some countries in Europe have wanted a level of well-being that is at the level of the Nordic, but with a level of taxation such as the US. I can't. The situation in Norway is in stark contrast to this international picture. First of all, we see that where other countries have debts, we have money on the book. We keep track of the economy and have achieved the goal of bringing oil money down to the four-percent mark. The rule of action, which some in this Chamber have criticised and ridiculed, has been one of the most important contributions to providing basic security and healthy development in the Norwegian economy. Secondly, where other countries have high unemployment rates, we have managed to get the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. We have managed to maintain life as an island of full employment in a sea of unemployment. And the unemployment rate in Norway has continued to decline, including this year. Today it is about 31⁄4 pst. In the first quarter of the year, employment increased by 7 000 persons. In addition to the 250,000 more employees we have had in Norway since the 2005 elections. Most of the new jobs have come in the private sector. It goes well in Norwegian business. Thirdly, where some countries have low growth, we have good economic growth. In the revised national budget, growth in mainland Norway is estimated at 3.2 pst. It's obvious about the normal. Growth is broadly based, with production growth in most industries. The activity is clearly higher than it was before the financial crisis, and most of it indicates that this growth will continue. Two days ago we read in the Evening Post that the Central Statistical Office expects 220,000 new jobs in Norway over the next three years. Norwegian companies may lack labour, so the contrasts are high. But it's not that this is a development that comes of itself. No law of nature states that Norway should be better off than in other countries. It's absolutely right that we have oil revenues that we have benefited from, but we've also had that in the past. We had oil revenues when the unemployment increased in the 1980s and 1990s. Nevertheless, we had Japanese time, banking crisis, financial crisis and major problems in the Norwegian economy. We also had oil money at the beginning of the 2000s. But we got increasing leave and big problems in the industry. So oil revenue is no guarantee of a good development in the economy. They must be well managed. Over time, many countries have experienced large revenues from natural resources. We have clearly seen that far from being able to manage such resources for the benefit of society and the population. We have made that clear in Norway. We have a social model that contributes to high value creation, small differences and good welfare at the same time. It's quite unique and something we can rightly be proud of. The Norwegian model works. Worldwide, concerns related to the situation in the euro area and in the United States have increased over the last few weeks. We're going to take that seriously. We have to listen to George Soros and others who warn. Although much is going well in Norway, what is happening out there is also important to our economy. Very much of our trade is with EU countries, and we also have insights about the rapid spread of unrest in financial markets between countries. That is why we are closely following developments. The best thing we can do is to keep order in our own house, conduct a policy that is sound, and act when required. We've done that before, and we're ready to do that again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1655	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1659	Despite our great oil wealth today, our future well-being and prosperity will largely depend on our having a business life that produces it in the future. LO leader Roar Flåthen was recently out there and announced that the LO was turning around in climate policy – not in relation to rejecting the overall objectives, but in relation to the use of the instrument. He would soften the demand of the government and the climate agreement that two thirds of the cuts should be made in Norway. The Prime Minister’s response has been that he stands behind the conciliation rather than debate the content of Flöthen. It is a natural response when this agreement nevertheless only has a duration of six to nine months before it is to be renegotiated. Eirin Sund, the representative of the Workers' Party in the Energy and Environment Committee, says that everything should then be discussed. However, the interesting question is whether the government has to add that we get an embellishment of those requirements, so that we have the opportunity to ensure that Norwegian industry establishes further activities in Norway, and that we do not impose restrictions on CO2 emissions that allow one to move out of the industry from Norway, as Roar Flåthen warns against.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1671	The Government shall provide its climate communication. Then we'll come up with our assessments, both of the tools and the situation we're in. I think it's wrong to start speculating in individual elements of it, both what's going well, and what we have several challenges associated with, before we have a global climate message that we're presenting to the Stortinget. Then the Stortinget can debate that announcement. But let me still give some consideration to the main theme. Firstly, it is absolutely right that we rely on growth in private business to ensure the well-being of the coming years. This government has just succeeded in creating growth in private business. 250,000 new jobs, two-thirds of them in private enterprises, represent a massive investment in private business in Norway – substantially more than in the previous government. The second is that we have to set ourselves up so that we don't have to choose between environment and economic development. We need to reconcile both the need for economic growth, economic development, and less emissions, and the positive thing is that we see clear signs that the Norwegian economy is becoming more environmentally friendly, while at the same time having strong growth.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1682	I agree that there are many positive features in the Norwegian economy. We live in a different situation than many other countries. We live in a situation that is parallel to a couple of other northern European countries, which are also starting to go well. One of the things you see around you, which is perhaps the most dramatic for the European area, is the great youth unemployment that is now spreading, and that over time is going to make many young people stand outside and have it difficult. Then I want to ask the Prime Minister a small question, because there are some such young people in Norway as well. It is young people who have not experienced participation in the growth of new jobs, and the decline in unemployment among disabled people in Norway has been marginal in the world’s best growth period. What will the Prime Minister now do to ensure that more young people with disabilities actually get a job to do and do not experience the same dramatic situation as many young Europeans do, namely that they do not need it?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1691	Firstly, I am pleased that the representative Solberg now finally realizes that Norwegian economy is doing well, too long tried the Right to paint black. Before the 2005 elections, they said that if we won the election, Norway would lose thousands of jobs. After we won the election, we got 250,000 more jobs – ten times as strong growth as under the previous government. It is good that after six years, the Right realises that this government is good for the country. The second is what we do about youth unemployment and the disabled. That's three things. One is that to get those who are struggling to get into the labour market, at work, we need to have high growth and low unemployment. In the absence of labour, enterprises will also be more likely to employ the normally excluded labour force. Low unemployment and high growth are point No. 1st@item: inlistbox Item No 2 is to create a social security system that makes it easier to combine work and social security. The disability pension we have now provided makes it much easier to combine work and social security for those who are in disability. Item No 3 is more appropriate. It's coming too.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1698	The Prime Minister and the undersigned last weekend had the pleasure of being in London together at an important meeting of development policy, where we both heard the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom take a strong settlement with those who will send the bill for the financial crisis and the economic crisis in which the West is in, to the poor of the world. The proposal made by the leader of the LO that we should not take a large part of the climate cuts in Norway, combined with the fact that the government wants us to take action on climate change out, to a large extent within the aid budget here, will lead to the same thing as Prime Minister Cameron warned against, namely that we are pushing the bill for the environmental sins of the industrialized countries into the poorest. Will Prime Minister Stoltenberg take an equally strong settlement with such a development as Prime Minister Cameron made on the 2nd day of Pentecost?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1707	The answer to that question is yes. I clearly believe that the problems that the rich world faces as a result of the financial crisis should not be at the expense of the poor country of the world. That's why I'm very happy that the Christian People's Party and the government can join forces for a strengthening of the aid, and that we could also be in London together and launch many new billions from several countries to vaccinate the world's children. In addition, it is positive that Norway is no longer the largest contributor, but now, in fact, the United Kingdom is giving more to vaccines than Norway does — this is not the case before — and Gates is also contributing a lot. Firstly, I think it is very important to clean up climate action in other countries. The largest climate action in other countries is intra-EU quota purchases. It doesn't pay the state, it pays the companies. So it's not a matter of going at the expense of anything, and at least not at the expense of assistance, because there is no assistance. It is the enterprises that pay for those allowances and contribute to lower emissions in the EU. The second is that buying climate quotas in developing countries is not aid. If we implement measures that are not climate quotas, such as forestry, it is aid. But I think that's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1716	I was actually going to ask the Prime Minister about the climate, me too, but when he said what he said in the last answer, I need to sort things out a little bit. There is a little difference between what the Prime Minister says in glossy newspapers on England Tour, and what he says in the revised budget that we are dealing with here today. In the revised budget, aid is cut by 116 million. kr, and the vaccine programmes supported by the government are cut by 22 million. kr. It's just the left who spends that money again. Now we're under 1 pst. of GNI. How can the Prime Minister explain that he is so wonderfully tall and dark when he is abroad, but cuts in his own budgets at the same points in the revised budget we are dealing with here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1723	I'm just as tall and just as dark whether I'm here or there – abroad or in Norway. I am in charge of everything we do in the field of assistance. So we're at the top of the world when it comes to providing assistance as a percentage of the national product. We've made a government budget for 2011 that makes that 1 pst. assistance from the estimated national product. Then there are often changes throughout the year, it can go up a little bit, it can go down a little bit, and there may be technical changes. But then we adopt a new budget for 2012 for which it is corrected. So over time, we're on the one percent that we've said we're going to do. Now we've actually been a couple of years over because of the kind of technical adjustments. We may get a little bit under this year, but we'll see when the year is up. The crucial thing is that we have over time at 1 pst, and this government has provided for that. The previous government never came up to the levels we are at when it comes to assistance. It's this government that has brought us up to 1 pst. So there's a complete match between what we're saying at home and what we're saying out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1732	Firstly, if the Prime Minister is to be neat about using statistics, he should show that most of the growth in 250,000 jobs began in 2005 before the red-green government took over. It has been flattened from 2008, when the policy of the red-green government began to rot. It is also partly due to the financial crisis. But it's not like this is a growth that started after red-green politics came into effect. Back to climate policy: I think the Prime Minister was vague. In the evening post 9 May, Secretary of State Kjetil Lund was much clearer. He said we should not have a climate policy that is moving out of Norwegian industry. LO and NHO have both been out warning that today’s climate change settlement and today’s climate policy are doing just that, and they refer to Alcoa’s project that cannot be realized in Norway, although Hydro can realise the same in Qatar. Will the Prime Minister ensure that a fundamental principle when presenting the next climate communication is that national CO2 requirements leading to an increase in global emissions are not met?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1744	Firstly, in the case of employment growth, it has been stable until the financial crisis – significantly higher than in the previous period of ageing. It is true that it flattened out during the financial crisis — it should be lacking only — but now there is once again growth in private employment in Norway. So it's going well in the labour market in Norway. Secondly, in the case of the climate communication, it comes. Then we're going to present the whole of our assessments of it. The climate agreement is followed up, and we have also shown that we can follow up the climate agreement and still facilitate good economic growth in Norway. The aim is to combine both climate and economy, not choose between either environment or growth. Thirdly, the right has guaranteed that they will have as large domestic cuts as are reflected in the climate agreement. The right will not be satisfied with the 13 to 15 million tonnes in the agreement. No, they're going to have over 20 million tons. If the Advance Party will ever sit in government, I expect it to be with the Right. So, according to the Right, it has to be guaranteed to be larger in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1753	We'll see now!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1759	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1762	It was nice that the Prime Minister would come and listen to me. I thank you for that. There were a lot of things you could comment on in the Prime Minister's posts, and I could say a few things. The real unemployment rate in Norway is much higher than the Prime Minister's attempt to produce it. The fact that we have a record of various social security measures and social expenditures does not mean that people are not out of work. There are as many people as there are in Sweden, even though we are half as many people. So we have enough challenges. In terms of competence – and now I see the Prime Minister leaving us, but I am talking to him anyway – and in terms of labour shortages, as the Prime Minister feared, there is no shortage of labour in this country, but there is a lack of skilled labour, and there is something quite different. If you use the payroll mechanism, you may also be able to train people and also receive a salary worth the skills you have actually gained through your education. It is possible to solve through the market mechanism, and I actually thought the Prime Minister was aware of that. The head of Norway’s largest workers’ association is also a member of the central government of the largest government party. That'll give you a lot of strange looks. For example, we experience that the same manager goes on trains every 1 May under slogans demanding a change in the policy he himself has agreed to adopt. May 1st has become the day when the power mobilizes to go on demonstration trains towards itself – a strange performance. I have previously asked the Minister of Finance why there are only trade unions associated with so-called main associations that receive tax deductions from the trade union quota. To this I got the following answer: ‘The requirement to be associated with a main association is important because it is a signal that the organisation must assume some social responsibility in addition to its own members’ interests.’ [[...]] Hmm... The government therefore chooses to discriminate between members of trade unions, not on the basis of the work done by the trade union for its members, but on the basis of an unspecified effort the trade union is expected to do, but does not affect the interests of its members. The finance minister has not been able to give me answers to what is in this, but it is very close to assuming that trade unions are expected to have a political understanding closely related to the Workers' Party. Earlier this year we were told that the LO has plans to contribute 20 million. kr for the Labour Party election campaign. In return, the Prime Minister immediately promised even larger tax credits to members of the LO, a total of 1.5 billion. kr has been suggested. That means LO's investment in the Workers' Party of 20 million. kr yields 1500 million. kr every year. It must be called a good shop! This has so far been described as contact, but, President, despite the fact that I am in danger of being clubbed, I choose to call this what it really is, political corruption. That this should continue without the political press responding is alarming – now they have also left the hall, I see – and quite simply not worthy of our democracy. Seafarers organised in their joint association are among the trade unions which have been refused tax credits under the membership quota. The association is now preparing a case against the government on the basis of this, and we should all hope that the union will win. The Progress Party proposes in all its alternative budgets to improve infrastructure in Norway. In response to why this is not possible, we are always told that the construction of roads, the improvement of schools and other public buildings will lead to inflation, pressure on the dollar rate and higher interest rates. Of course, every penny in addition to the government budget has such an effect. In other words, macroeconomic understanding is at a very high and detailed level. It is the fortune-tellers in the Ministry of Finance who make such gloomy predictions. Or was it Norway's Bank? Or was it the Credit Authority? After winter's pitch, it's easy to get confused. But, in any case, the real test of whether the tailor and weaver economists are right in their assumptions, we will get in the near future – this because the government, without the help of the Progress Party, must use hundreds of millions to repair infrastructure that has been damaged after the flood in the East. On the Day Review, we could see for ourselves that it was actually possible to find both foreign and domestic labour. Yes, so much quickly was found that you were able to build a temporary bridge in 24 hours. And think how this is going to go. Here, crews will fix both highways, highways, bridges and tunnels, without the calculations of the Ministry of Finance! And now comes the real test, because according to the government, we're now going to get pressure on the dollar rate, inflation, lack of labour and higher interest rates. And in the Mjøs region, the flood is likely to be followed by a ragnarok of the krone press, inflation pressure and two-digit interest rate. Labour will be so difficult to recover that all municipal bureaucrats in Hamar will have to replace tween jackets with orange-flashing charms from Mesta. Yes, perhaps even the Minister of Finance has to take a roof on his next trip home. Exciting it will be anyway!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1799	The representative Tybring-Gyde was quite right. The President believes that accusing his opponents of ‘political corruption’ on the basis of a policy they stand for does not belong in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1802	Working for all, sustainable development, increasing value creation, a fairer distribution and strengthening of well-being are the overriding objectives of economic policy. Growth is increasing - it appears to be higher than expected. The unemployment rate is lower than that previously assumed, and there has been a little less difference between the poor and the rich. We're tightening up the budget, and we're back on the 4 pst. path. All in all, there are good prospects for the Norwegian economy. We're a country in the world that's in an incredibly lucky situation. But when we look around us in e.g. Europe, the image is completely different. Although growth in OECD countries has increased, it has not been strong enough to reduce unemployment significantly. Trust in a number of countries, such as the United States and Japan. Greece, is very weak, and the country has asked for additional assistance from both the IMF and the EU. People in Greece have confidence in future and little confidence in politicians. What is happening in Europe is also extremely important to us. Almost 80 pst. of our exports go to Europe. Therefore, it is important that our budgets take account of the competitive sector, that interest rates do not rise any more and faster than in our co-operative countries, and that the krone stays low. That is why we have laid down a tighter budgetary policy than we proposed. I see that by the opposition there are both Right, Christian People's Party and Left some with us, while the Progress Party as usual will use much more – there's nothing new, and since there's only one revision, it's only 8 billion. kr extra this time – and Right, their potential partners, will spend 2 billion. kr less – a 10 billion difference. kr. I am the case spokesman for Document No. 8:140 on the tax deductions for craft services and service tasks carried out in their own housing. The proposal includes: that the Swedish state will get another $1.40 for each krona that is given in what they call ROT deductions, which are cancellation deductions. If that were the case, I would have actually agreed with the proposers that it would have been an interesting proposal. But the Swedish government says something else. They say in the 2011 Spring Proposition that the tax costs related to the cleanup services are estimated at 13 billion. Swedish krone net. And for RUT – that is, the services that apply to help in the world – the tax expense is estimated at 1.3 billion. Swedish krone net. There's actually a basis for believing that if one had this proposal in Norway, there would have been a lot of tax expenditure here too. In addition, there are many more self-owners here in Norway. In the Swedish proposal, only self-owners are allowed to take part in this. Norway also has a much lower unemployment rate. That would mean that there had been a less employment effect and thus a higher net tax expense. One also sees that such a deduction would have adverse distribution effects. I have examined how the so-called RUT deduction – i.e. the deduction that applies to services in the world – works in Sweden. There are most people with high incomes who can benefit from that deduction. If you trust income, you don't actually get any deductions. Nor does a fact-finding of black work relative to the RUT subtraction. Neither does a fact-finding of the employment effect it has actually given. On the right, a lot of times talk about such a deduction, but now it looks like they've come to their senses and support that this proposal should not be accepted. And that's good. The Christian People's Party well supports that part of the proposal that goes on home services. I want to say that if people want to buy help in the world, there is no problem. But it's a problem to spend our common money on giving tax cuts to those who can afford to buy such services.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1821	The government’s proposal for a revised national budget shows that Norway is doing very well. Unemployment is low, employment is high, production is increasing, and there is growth in the mainland economy. We have steered the country safely through the financial crisis. It provides the necessary security for us to develop further the Community solutions and the welfare society we have in Norway, including in the coming years. The contrast is overwhelming to the situation we are looking out for in Europe. Many countries are in a very difficult situation with both high unemployment and high government debt. It means dramatic cuts in public budgets, and many now experience painful changes with subsequent demonstrations, unrest and social tensions. The danger of new crises is not over either. Norway too can be picked up by new international setbacks, but if there is something the financial crisis has shown us, it is that the mechanisms we have built around Norwegian economic policy are working well. Holding back in good years has given us muscles to get us through crises. As the space for action increases again, it is because we have succeeded in our policy. Several are at work, industrial production is rising, and sick leave is falling. It doesn't come of itself, but is the result of political choices we make every day. You can't spend money on all kinds of tax cuts, as the opposition does on a continuous basis. The main task of government party economic policy over the last few years has been to help keep employment up and keep unemployment low. We did that. In Norway today, we have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. We have lower unemployment now just after a global economic downturn than the Bondevik government had without a financial crisis. There are 250,000 more employed today compared to 2005. About two out of three new jobs are in the private sector. This should be able to refute any claim that it is not possible to run a business in Norway or that working life is characterised by rigid rules. We have a policy for growth and employment. If we are to create business development and jobs, good infrastructure is crucial. It was one of the important assumptions on which we built the red-green government cooperation in 2005. After years of low priority being given to the transport sector, we made a change of pace. As the financial crisis was a fact, just one of the key elements of the action package for work presented by the government in the winter of 2009. The large number of investment projects on the road and paved the way for us to keep employment up. But we're not just using investments in transport as a cyclical measure. In the context of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019, the size decided to step up investment in the transport sector. We are in the process of implementing this promise. In this budget audit, a good budget for transport is getting even better. In the 2011 state budget, we give high priority to road and rail maintenance. Road maintenance is increasing this year by a total of 60 pst. 1000 km of new asphalt shall be added. Many will experience having to stand in a queue and wait to get past asphalt workers this summer, but do it with a smile, because there is visible evidence that the red-green majority stops the decay on the roads. Railway maintenance and renewal have increased considerably in recent years. There are now far fewer delays and adjustments in train traffic due to degraded infrastructure. The improvement has been particularly evident in the Oslo area, where the renewal effort is highest. Once the Railway Agency has found room to carry out even more renewal projects, we are once again increasing the maintenance budget in the revised budget. This will allow us to carry out important innovation projects on the Vestfoldbanen, Sørlandsbanen and Østfoldbanen. The Prime Minister pointed out that there are many worrying developments in the global economy. The situation in Norway, on the other hand, shows that the red-green majority manages through times of crisis, while investing in infrastructure, facilitates business development and increases employment. We've been doing it for six years, and we'll do it again.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1842	Recently, I have read studies such as: shows that there is no removal of the wealth tax that comes at the top of the wish list when businesses are asked what they consider to be the most important challenges. Nor does the desire to remove taxes on working capital come at the top of the list. What is most important is predictability, both for private people and business. In this, of course, political decisions must also be predictable. The revised national budget is in a way a mid-term report, with the Storting having the opportunity to adjust or correct the budget adopted last autumn. This year's RNB shows that it's good overall. The outlook is good, and actually it's getting better and better. It's not long since we discussed how long it would take before we were back to the so-called 4pst track, after major public expenditure in the context of the financial crisis. We were supposed to be back in approx. 2018. Well, we're already under the 4 pst. path. That means it's going well. That also means that the arrangements we made during the financial crisis must have been right. That's kind of what we're harvesting right now. We see large and, in part, dangerous economic savings in large parts of Europe during these days. Many countries have to cut their well-being, wages and pensions because they have spent too much money in both good and bad times. Fortunately, with a broad political majority, we are able to dispose of our budgets so that we can hold back in good times in order to be able to spend more in bad times. As a result, the time off is low. This is one of the most important things we can do. That's why it's a positive answer we give to business and to the people. We can say that we continue to build the welfare state, stone by stone, not at a terrible pace. But when we look back six years, we see the huge changes we've made. If we look at today, we don't see the changes as easily. Only when we get it all at arm's length, we see the results. That is why more and more people believe that we are moving too slowly. Even I'm an impatient type, but happily admits that in terms of financial dispositions, I'm very restrained in the sense that I don't want to put anything over control, simply because I know who always loses on it if it goes wrong. It is always those who are at least already, whether economically weak or resource weak in other ways. They will lose on major changes that are difficult to adapt to. That's why we're changing society for the better at a calm and proper pace. Recently, we have had several treatments that affect tax here in the Chamber. In one of these debates this week, the Progress Party ridiculed the fact that it was so important for this government that 'Everyone should join', that we do not tolerate too many differences, that we should almost have a binocular culture to see what the neighbor earns and pays in taxes. I will happily and proudly admit that yes, we want there to be small differences between people in this country. It's actually an important goal for me and this government. Is it that you have poor conditions to survive, the welfare community will help you. On the other hand, if you have the very best assumptions to make it, we think it's right and fair that you should then help others. We have a relatively high tax level in Norway, but far from the highest in Europe. In other words, we do not have such a level of taxation in Norway that I want to travel around and scare others by the fact that one in Norway is almost taxed in half. No, I'd rather travel around and tell you that we're on average. In addition, I would say that what people demand in Norway, which means something to well-being and investment, is stability and predictability. Companies that want to establish themselves, either by building new industries or buying into existing industries, greatly appreciate – literally – the economic and legal stability of this country. It can yield low and stable interest rates. The security network – or welfare state, if you want – that applies to everyone whether you are a business owner or an employee, also means a lot. My and our philosophy is that if people feel secure, secure that the safety net, welfare state, works and captures you and then helps you back if you're unhappy, you dare more. Then you become more creative and creative. Providing more money for investment on the road and track, constantly improving the quality of education, providing a stable level of interest and security for the economy, i.e. what is at the top of the wish list for many business associations, is far more important than lowering the income of the state by removing taxes such as property taxes. Fortunately, this is a great understanding of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1861	It was with great wonder that I followed the answer to my reply to the Torgeir Micaelsen. First of all, like everyone else from the red-greens, he did not answer the question, which was whether he did not sympathise with all those who have the worst income in Norway and who are hit hardest by all the price increases on fuel, electricity and consumables. I assume that the reason he did not respond was that he did not have an answer. You could really think he didn't care. What he said, on the other hand, was all the problems in other countries in Europe, which more from the Red-Greens have also spoken about. I have great sympathy for all the people in Europe who are affected by misguided policies in these countries, but if the Micasen and the Red-Greens have not got it along, then we are dealing with the revised national budget for the nation of Norway and how we can make it best possible for this country's inhabitants. The Micasen also tried to make a mockery of the fact that the Progress Party was unable to achieve its objective of Swedish fuel prices. This is where he's been in bad shape for an hour. Firstly, we are discussing a revision of the year's budget, which means that we are not submitting a new draft budget, but are making changes to the budget based on changes since we have been discussing the ordinary budget. Secondly, it must be a long time since Micaelsen was in Sweden, because with a reduction in fuel taxes proposed by the Progress Party, the price in Norway will fall below or below the Swedish level. Enough about Micaelsen's lack of insight into what the Progress Party is actually proposing. The Advance Party notes that in winter we have experienced a huge increase in fuel prices. In addition, following the heavy tax increases in tobacco and alcohol imposed by the red-greens in the budget, we have experienced that smuggling and trade leakage continue with unreduced strength. We are therefore promoting a border-trade package in which we propose reduced tobacco and alcohol taxes, as well as a reduced chocolate tax. Today the trade leakage to Sweden is well over 10 billion. kr. There are several reasons for this, but the level of taxes on alcohol and tobacco is one of the main causes of the trade leakage. For those who had to rely on the dynamic effect of this, it would appear at increased tax entry in Norway because the sale of tobacco and alcohol would largely transfer from Sweden to Norway, increased VAT input because people would trade in Norwegian shops, and higher tax input from those who would be employed in Norwegian shops. For several years, the move from the districts to the centres has increased. The last figures from the Nordic countries clearly show this. There are many reasons for this, but a common denominator for government action against this and the increasing movement rate is that the more people move, the more of the same measures the government implements. I've often wondered when the government should understand that when a user of the wrong medicine, it doesn't use to pee with more of the same medicine. Therefore, the Progress Party uses another type of medicine, and although this is a complex issue, there are two areas that are important. One is to lower the level of charges that increase the distance costs, which is particularly relevant with the extreme fuel prices we have seen this winter. That is why the Progress Party also lowers the taxes on petrol and diesel. Then we invest heavily in road construction and maintenance, which is noticed. None of the parts want the government. It keeps cleaning up more of the medicine that doesn't work. Increased use of motorcycles and mopeds will solve many of the space problems in the largest cities. Today motorcycles are particularly heavily taxed. There is no reason, in the view of the Progress Party, that motorcycles should be charged differently from cars. That is why we are promoting proposals to make car and motorcycle equal pay, which will significantly reduce the price of motorcycles. In the spring it became clear that electric cars of type Opel Ampera and Chevrolet Volt were not classified as the cars they actually are. The government has chosen to liken this type of car to hybrid cars. It's a step in the right direction, but still not enough. The Progress Party proposes a separate category for so-called plug-in hybrids with a lower charge than hybrid cars. Of course, there is an emergency solution, because today's car tax system has been out of date for the longest time, as this patch shows. As I said at the outset, the Progress Party is concerned about how people in Europe are doing, but it is primarily problems that have to be solved by the population and the government of the countries concerned. The revision of the national budget, which we are discussing today, is primarily a revision of the budget adopted in December 2010. The proposals that the Progress Party is promoting in the Chamber today will make it easier for those sections of the population who currently have the worst advice, because fees are unsocial and framework whatever the amount of a servant. Serve a lot, it doesn't matter if the fuel charges and the electricity prices are high, or as Trygve Hegnar said about the toll charges: he hoped that the fees would be so high that he could have more of the road for himself. For the Progress Party, it is important that the fees do not have a level that helps to make people with poor advice, even worse.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1880	Today we both confirm and strengthen the political course for the country. The government is taking a tough course towards the goal of working for all, and the 2011 budget is also designed to ensure low interest rates, low unemployment, and that as few as possible will experience losing a job or getting a permit. The 2011 budget and the revision of what we are dealing with today ensure the security of people's jobs and homes. Nothing we do in this room is more important than that. The government invests in the line of work while ensuring through good social arrangements the everyday life of those who experience being unemployed or becoming unemployed. We use revised to strengthen efforts for a more serious working life by strengthening measures against the unprofessional and illegal part of the world of work. In winter, we have seen many cases of gross breaches of the Working Environment Act. Lack of respect for laws and standards, especially in the health sector, and the explosive growth in the manning industry, which has been responsible for many of the most serious issues, require first and foremost a clean-up in the industry – and that is what we are about to do – but this also requires, among other things. a more efficient and visible supervision of work, which can provide more supervision for more than one person. The government has also strengthened the Labour Inspectorate several times since we took over the government in 2005, among others. for the implementation of the two action plans against social dumping. And we're strengthening supervision again today by 10 million. kr, because we are concerned about a more serious work life. However, employers are responsible for complying with the laws and regulations and for not exploiting employees. It's trying to get e.g. The Adecco case to deal with the state of the Labour Inspectorate, yes, it's like giving a smoke detector the blame for it burning. It's a derailment. On the right-hand side of this room, it is pleasant to discuss supervision alone, and not to take into account the fact that crime, social dumping, is often a consequence of – and increases – liberalisation, the competitive trigger, and what is the mantra of right-wing policy: the most important goal in life is more for money. Strengthen supervision, the only answer to the right is every time we see gross violations of the rules of the world of work. At the same time, they vote in this Chamber against important measures against social dumping. The government, on the other hand, is fighting a multiple battle for a better and more serious working life. After all, the Labour Inspectorate is just one of the tools we use for unprofessional work. The priority of supervisory efforts, which is now to focus on the human and health sectors, is resource-intensive, and we therefore consider it appropriate to strengthen supervision in the revised framework. We also strengthen labour market measures in revision. We have followed and followed the situation on the labour market closely and have seen through the spring that the level of action – for those people who are not particularly cyclical and are not necessarily the first to benefit from falling unemployment, those with reduced working capacity – has been too low. There is a great need for labour-oriented assistance for these peoples. This is what we are taking seriously, so we are increasing in the revised level of action for people with disabilities. This is how we ensure work and activity for more people. Work for everyone, also for those who need some extra help, is as well known our goal. We also strengthen the Employment and Welfare Act by 84 million. kr to help people experience a more efficient and better budget. The increase will focus on modernising ICT systems, speeding up the handling of issues and increasing efforts to tackle social security abuse. These increases in the field of work that we are adopting today contribute to strengthening the work of a renewed and reinforced line of work and a clearer and stronger fight against the unprofessional part of the world of work. The revised budget confirms and reinforces our course: Support the course towards work for everyone. It is, as the Prime Minister said, far from any law of nature that we succeed here at home, that is, to the most extent, the result of clear political choices.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1904	I sat and wondered a little about the focus of the representative Torfinn Opheim in his post, when he used almost the whole article to explain that predictability is the most important thing for business. It should be a matter of course. For all those who are concerned with developing Norwegian welfare, predictability for business is, of course, the most important thing. If Torfinn Opheim had also listened to business, he would have heard that the property tax sails up as case no. 2nd@item: inlistbox Revised isn't a fight about the main structure of our tax system. On the right, there is no rematch about it in the revision, as the representative Sanner also said. I think it would have been constructive of Opheim to spend time on what actually amazes us a little bit, and that's that you're not more concerned with strengthening the BSU. It puts a lot of emphasis on the right, because we see that in the start-up phase there are young people who have a hard time in terms of debt build-up and getting into the housing market. I think the red-green, and especially the working party, should have the inference angle that this is a scheme that favours those with low income the most. It is also a scheme that favours them as, for example, have made a professional choice instead of higher education. They come in earlier and get income, so they benefit from the tax deduction. So a little bit about tax lists. There we acknowledge that the government is taking some action, but we don't think they go far enough. Nor do we understand why there is a need to increase the availability of the tax lists on the Tax Directorate's website. That is why we propose that this should still be limited to three weeks. I think at all this accessibility issue is a huge problem. If we Google people who don't want to be very much in public, who have either low or high incomes, or who are a bit side by side with what's common in society, you'll see that there are mostly tax supplements that appear on these types of people. That means that you're in public almost forever. We also think that it should have made it identifiable who is applying for one in the tax lists. It is quite worrying to hear about all those who receive threat letters and the kind of things with a background in the tax lists. We can't understand why you're not using MinID to build up a system where the one that's being applied for is being notified that you're applied for, and who's been applied for. But here's a disagreement. We also marvel at the argument about critical journalism. I think it was on one of our television channels where I saw an interview with someone who was in the B gang. He drove around in Ferrari and had zero income. He replied – when he was asked how it was possible – that he leased the car. The journalist was unable to follow up with a critical question as to whether it really does not cost money. So I ask questions about whether this is being used critically at all. The right is concerned with the innovation capacity and competitiveness of the Norwegian economy — it is central to further development. Therefore, the research and depreciation side becomes very central. On both of these sides, we have suggestions. TAX FUNN should be strengthened. I hear with amazement at a research minister who is not very concerned with measuring the research effort. She is particularly concerned about measuring it against GDP, because it fluctuates – she says. The problem is probably more that GDP is growing. But the argument is rather strange from a minister of research, because there is one area in which the socio-economic return is significantly higher than the economic return on business, it is in research. This is precisely why there is a need for strong incentives for business to rise to the level of research that we believe on the part of society. That's the kind of grip we've focused on in the budget. So a little comment on the proposal of the Progress Party on tax deductions for craft services and service assignments. It is true, as the rapporteur says, that we do not support it, because we regard it as a good measure in times of crisis. Sweden was in a completely different situation than Norway is now. Our challenge is, in fact, to find the labour force, which the Prime Minister was also in, and to use it correctly. And then the Right believes that it is important to give priority to general tax relief, asset tax relief and inheritance tax, and that kind of thing, rather than introducing new tax arrangements. Something else is that we can have a common interest in getting older people to live longer at home. There we have a little hint in a note, but we'll take that later.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1925	In the revised version, this room has an opportunity, an opportunity, to adjust the price, withdraw funds or grant additional funds based on the current situation, changes that have occurred, or assumptions that have changed. I have to admit that even though I don't have the gene that makes me very jealous, there is one man's work I sometimes envy, and it's the representative of Torgeir Micaelsens, who doesn't have a particularly hard-working harvest. He has a job at the beginning of October where he boasts of the state budget, so he sits quietly for months without moving a single penny or taking over a single signal, and then going out and repeating the same list when we stand here today. Just then I have to admit that I envy him. But a lot has happened to us that we should be able to adjust the price. And I'm concerned – not entirely surprising – with both the health field and the care area. The specialist health service has long been troubled: hospital scandals, increasing waiting lists, lack of bet on local hospitals, now last at Nordfjordeid, and last but not least, the conversion process at Oslo University Hospital, which seems to me to be completely out of control. Health South-East therefore has specialist health care for half of the country's population. That is why it was also a strong and serious signal when Siri Hatlen resigned as hospital director in Oslo because she did not consider the government charged with hospital cuts to be sound within the time frame set. In addition, she and others in the board feared that this would compromise patient safety. The Progress Party has warned against this development for a long time and clearly. We also primarily want a completely different funding and organisation system than today, we want a system where the money follows the patient. Today’s situation could have been avoided by a powerful government, but the Progress Party takes responsibility in the revised national budget. In fact, it is important to put the patient and the safety of life and health first, and then bets and not shoulder straps are required. The Progress Party proposes over half a billion dollars in hospital conversion funds to unload them through today’s migration process without affecting treatment provision and patient safety. It is disappointing that the government cannot participate in the same, and that they dare to take the chance that this will go well without any extra means. This is a policy that means that others, i.e. the patients, may have to pay the price of paralysis. Unfortunately, the specialist health service is not the only area where a great promise is needed, and where there would have been a need for a more effective government council than what we have today. Our older people deserve greater predictability that the offer actually exists on the day of the need for, for example. a health home space is created. Media has over several years, and not least this year, explained that many older people do not have this predictability, this obvious right that you should have. In this area, too, the party wants the money to follow each individual. It is the need for the individual, according to the doctor's regulations, to decide whether and when one is given a hospitalized place, and not the municipality's economy. We therefore want government funding for the care of the elderly, where the money follows each one, and where the elderly can find room when the medical need so warrants. The right of every six-year-old to a school place, the same right should be granted to any nursing parent to a nursing home. Unfortunately, this system is not a reality today. That is why we have to deal with today's framework funding through the municipalities. And then I am very happy that the Progress Party in the revised national budget has proposed a bet just in the elderly, by turning off an ear-marked older billionaire to make sure that we get more sick homes, hurting such, in Norwegian municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1945	In the change of lines between Solberg and me, she said very clearly that she was completely in disagreement with the representative Siv Jensen's presentation of the rule of action: that it had to be on the scrapheugen. It is good to hear that the Right Leader has such a position. But there is, of course, a fundamental insecurity in the extension of such a finding. Of course, the fact that the two major opposition parties disagree and that it is quite clear that they do not have a common policy creates a great deal of uncertainty as to what is the economic policy of the future in Norway if they are to be close to having government power. We can see that as we approach the end of this debate. The representative Solberg also had a presentation of our use of the rule of action that I must say surprises me, because it is actually, operationally and politically insane. She says that we do not use the rule of action for what it was intended to do. I have selected some figures that illustrate that the representative Solberg probably does not speak against better knowledge – she knows this. But she must say it because she will try to hide the problem she has with the use of the money. Transport: an increase of 67 pst. since she herself was in government, health enterprises: an increase of 46 pst. since she was in government, research – as she suggested herself – an increase of 57 pst. since she was in government, and Enova – another point – 153 pst. since she was in government. That's what this money is used for, as the right has also said. But what is obviously also saying is, did the bourgeois parties use oil money differently when they were in government? No, they didn't, they used them exactly the same way our government uses them – that is. they used them for tax relief. Because although we can see that in this debate there is a great deal of disagreement about the rule of action, as we have now been illustrated – which in itself is alarming – we know that the right side agrees on one thing, namely the philosophy of the economy of society becoming stronger by means of tax relief. It has been said many times by the representatives of the Right, it has been said by the representatives of the Progress Party in this Chamber today. What society, with what economy, proves that it's right? We can look at Europe today, look at the economies that are driven by the market, as the Progress Party and the Right wants. Let's do it: high unemployment, but above all something that threatens the balance of the entire Western economy, and hence the Norwegian, which is a huge government deficit, with enormous consequences for the stability of the welfare state, and thus the basis for the creation of value. It's the philosophy of the right, and I don't think we can end this debate until we've settled it. I really think they should take this fundamentally into account. The last thing I want to say is that we're not going to end this big session until we've been told here in this room that the right parties' attacks on the world of work are remarkable. The measured time does not allow me to go into all that this is going to mean for Norwegian workers. But what really surprises me is that you don't understand that a destabilized working life destroys the creation of value and the return on capital. I don't understand. I've never understood that, and there's never anyone on the right who can explain it. The last thing I have to say is: Tybring-Gjedde complained about the tax deduction on the union quota. They're proposing to zero it out. But there is no reduction in the deduction for employers. I'm not going to use that expression that Tybring-Gjedde used, but good morals at least it's not.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1962	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1965	I could imagine discussing some morality with the representative Kolberg, but I had prepared for something else, which is important for the voters to know something about, namely the pace of non-Western immigration to Norway, which is explosive. It is estimated that it will come about. 15 000–20,000 non-Western immigrants to Oslo each year, and that our original population – ethnic norwegian – will be in a minority in 2030. It's less than 20 more years. Several have pointed out that this development is not sustainable economic. But it's not the most important thing: it's not sustainable culturally and valuablely. Is Martin Kolberg – and I would like the voters to know before the elections – agree that today's non-Western immigration is not sustainable, as many of the reports have shown, or will he continue to accept, and continue to argue for, the government's immigration policy, which is thus having this consequence as the Financial Paper pointed out last week. Or will he simply turn away with sob talk and not answer my question?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1972	I believe that the immigration policy we are pursuing is the realistic and right immigration policy. Because it is not possible, as the Progress Party often tries to give the impression, that Norway can report out of this development. Tybring-Gjedde's political party has no immigration policy – at least no integration policy. They want a stop in this. It is totally unrealistic to think — even if they try to implement their policies — that it will be possible to close the Norwegian borders. There is no international example of this being possible, nor is there anyone else in this room who supports such a policy. As far as sustainability is concerned, of course, we see very clear examples of the challenges posed by immigration. I agree, but I think the government is handling it very well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1979	I am pleased that the representative Martin Kolberg is also taking it for granted that there will be a government change in 2013. However, I notice that when he looks beyond Europe and talks about countries with great debts, he forgets to add that most of them are socially democratically governed. However, bourgeoisly governed Sweden is now facing profits and is working out of the crisis, and tax cuts have contributed to the entry into the job market of many of those outside the labour market. So for oil money use: the numbers that Kolberg uses are completely irrelevant in this debate. Because he'll be able to use equivalent numbers that show that the increase in all other items has been about the same. If you prioritize everything, you don't give priority to anything. What NHO has documented is that while nine out of ten dollars of the increased space of action in our reign went to knowledge, transportation and tax relief, only two out of ten dollars have gone to the same amount in this period. Does Martin Kolberg disagree with the governor when he points out that this part of the rule of action has come into the background of the red-green government – namely, creating growth through the use of oil money?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1990	Of course, it's not that I take it for granted that the bourgeois parties will win the next election; I'm just pointing out what the consequences in the case are. As far as Sweden is concerned, it's saying that I hear what is being said about the numbers, but I noticed that both the representative Solberg and the representative Sanner had to stick to predictions in order to document developments in Sweden, not the actual figures. For the figures, they show that they have twice as high unemployment as in Norway and have enormous youth unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e1997	It's going down.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2002	Yeah, it's going down, but it's a prognosis. The fact is, Mr Sanner, that the welfare arrangements in Sweden are now under intense pressure because of underfinancing by a civil government. So they pay a very high price for getting a so-called growth index. It's the beginning of the development of Difference Sweden, and it's the dismantling of what was called the community. So that's what's happening in Sweden, and nothing but that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2007	When the representative Martin Kolberg speaks, I always listen a little bit extra, because it usually does come very well. Today, therefore, I was somewhat disappointed that most of the article was about the Right and about the Advance Party. But at the end Kolberg touches on something very important, namely the labour market and the situation there. There is a field in which the Workers' Party has always been concerned, and at least in the election campaign the slogan "Work for all" ran. But there is one great concern I have when I look at the labour market now, and that is what can be called a group that falls completely outside, between two chairs, which are not unemployed, and which have also not come into permanent disability, namely those with reduced working capacity. Today it's 220,000. Kolberg talked about all the numbers that increased, and since Bondevik II it's increased from 150 000 to 220 000. Today's action areas account for approximately 40% of the total population. 66 000, and in the revised version, adopted today, is the average of 53 000. Why is it that the Workers' Party does not want to help more of these people into work?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2014	We have a lot of investment in this area in a number of fields, and the focus on employment measures has been strongly increasing all along. We've had a lot of focus on it, and we have it as a central objective of government policy. I realize that this is a difficult field, because it's demanding in an advanced society to get space for everyone. It's demanding, we're all going to realize that. But I think it's wrong to say that we don't have a focus on this, because it's been a central element of government policy from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2021	The chord shift has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2025	In the Right's Alternative Revised Budget, we find reason to spend a little less money than the government. In spite of this, however, the Right manages to give priority to removing the inheritance fee from 1 July 2011. It is a charge that is at best a double charge, and often it is a triple charge for what has already been paid over several generations – on everything from house to cottages to dwellings. However, what the red-green government has also contributed to during this period is to strengthen the proceeds of the inheritance tax for generations of small and medium-sized enterprises, which have major consequences. What the Right also wants to do is further investment in the use of gas in Norway. In our main budget, we have followed up the strategy that an overall increase in the use of natural gas has had in practice. In this budget, we have been a little bit involved in what both the Minister of Finance, the Minister of the Environment and the Minister of Industry have some real problems, and it is actually that, both in the climate agreement and in economic environmental theory, also represented by a State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance, we should stop using double instruments in terms of environmental taxes. The gas power plant at Kårstø and the gas power plant at Mongstad have a quota obligation. In addition, they have now received a CO2 tax that leads to both incorrect use of the resources and competitive disadvantages that the government does not really want, but which you close your eyes and let go anyway. That's not good enough, and I think the Minister of Finance knows very well himself that he has to make a change on, and it has Right Expectations for the government to clean up. So it is that the government and Stortinget today fortunately extend the gas tax exemption to the offshore vessels as well. It's the Customs and Fee Directorate that's going to make the regulation for this, and what often a directorate does is to narrow down what the Storting and the government think they've done. There are already reports of trying to exempt some ships, in relation to wind turbines, in relation to farming and in relation to others. Then you don't have to get an exemption. At the same time, it is known that both shipyards, shipbuilders and shipping companies are planning gas ships more and more today. If there is to be uncertainty about who will be exempted from the CO2 tax depending on what kind of ship it is, it will be completely wrong. The Minister of Finance has to clean that up. The right has also said something in the budget now about the environmental car effort that needs to come. Technological developments have advanced far ahead of the government, far ahead of the Customs and Charges Directorate. This has resulted in the Opel Ampera case, which also involves both Peugot, Volvo, Toyota and other car suppliers, for which the government has now made a preliminary solution. For the Right part, we have said that we have to look at the components of the one-off fee. Because it's clear that it's quite ironic that the big electric cars for families are going to have so big, heavy batteries that the weight component is going to be a big challenge for that type of car. In addition, we know that families of children are going to buy those cars, they have to have safety equipment that enables them to actually buy them. The sum of battery and safety equipment causes the weight component to make cars too expensive. It wants to do something in our budgets. I am also the case rapporteur, and will manage within the framework of it, for document 8:141 S, the proposal by Borghild Tenden and Trine Skei Grande, on new green tax commission. My recommendation was that we adopt this. It has been joined by the Left, of course, and the Christian People's Party. When the Right recommends saying yes to the new Green Tax Commission, many decades – almost – after we had the previous one, it is not necessarily because we agree with the various proposals of the Left Party on the environmental side. But we are quite sure that a green tax commission will refocus economic policies on the environment. That's how we think we can tackle it. Then we have to live with that in a commission, as in the Storting and in the Government, it will be different solutions to that. But it's quite appropriate that an overall tax commission, with an environmentally friendly focus, is what we need in the next few years. That's the background for recommending this. I take up the proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2044	The representative of Arve Kambe has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2047	It has been interesting to keep up with the debate. I record that the Minister of Finance said something like that it's only on very special occasions that we have to make changes to the state budget. I understand that the Minister of Finance doesn't think we're getting Europe's worst road network is a special event that's happened lately. But it could well happen that at least the flood in Uppland and Hedmark is an event that has happened lately that the government should take over and start doing something with, and make some suggestions to do something on the infrastructure side there. From the government parties, I have heard in this debate that money should be spent on the big and important tasks, such as, among other things. infrastructure. It's not exactly to take this seriously when an increasingly large part of our infrastructure gets worse and worse. The expiration of the old state and new county road network will now cost a place between 23 billion. kr and 25 br. to correct. In addition, the maturity of the national road network will cost a place between 7 billion. kr and 10 brd. kr to repair – this despite today’s government saying that there has never been any more money granted by any government before. It's not very impressive. It is almost always such that any new government will say that it grants more money than the previous government. This is due, inter alia, to: increased costs and wage increases, etc., which must be compensated. Therefore, it is not very difficult to say that you give more money than any other government has done before. Unfortunately, after six years with the Labour Party, SV and the Central Party in government, the result is that the road network continues to mature. It matures faster than what you grant to stop the decay. That is exactly why the Progress Party proposes that 3.5 billion be allocated. additional to the national and county road network for the purposes of this revised budget. In many places, the road network is so poor and dangerous that traffic safety is actually being released. In several places it is so poor that even laying asphalt and maintaining the road network becomes road safety measures. It shouldn't be like that. Road safety measures should be added, in the form of new quadruple motorways, in the form of middle parts and other measures, which help to reduce road accidents. There are measures that really mean taking zero hard damage and zero killed in traffic seriously. So this year, this government is going to build the 20 km four-field highway. It has to be built approx. Thirty-three kilometers in the middle. It's too peanuts to count, especially when we know that Sweden builds 200 kilometers of middle parts only this year – and especially when we know what huge challenges we have and how huge the need is. That's why lifting is important. That is what the Progress Party proposes by increasing the appropriations for the national road network by 2 billion. kr and the county road network of 1,5 billion. kr. This I'm sure will neither overthrow the economy nor increase inflation, as it might sound like today with the terror propaganda from the government parties. For example, it makes sense to get feedback when you travel and meet people from business, economics and others. They don't understand why we don't invest any more in infrastructure. Because there's something people most and all economists and others understand, it's that we need a real infrastructure network across the country, if you want to use the whole country, which some parties in the government quarter say they're busy with. I would also like to point out some of the proposals we are making today. There is an urgent need to repair E134 on the route between Kongsberg and Notodden. There have been many accidents on the bridge at Lake Elgsjö. Unfortunately, fatal accidents have also occurred. There's a screaming need to do something there. That is why the Progress Party proposes to allocate 50 million in concrete terms. extra kr to find a solution for these road-hazardous routes. The railway company says that the delay now amounts to 7 billion. kr. That is why we are proposing to increase the appropriations for maintenance on the railway by 100 million. kr. Avinor has high investment needs and major investment challenges. That's why we're proposing to bring back 189 million. kr to Avinor. Instead of taking dividends, the State should return them in order to secure aerodromes and ensure the development of the airports for which Avinor is responsible. The Party of Progress is not only concerned with increasing road safety but also in other areas. That is why we propose to remove the charge on emergency locator transmitters. We suggest strengthening the Rescue Company. They're doing a fantastic job this summer. Unfortunately, too many accidents occur, and then it is a pity that you have to reduce both the offer and the readiness because you don't get the subsidy you should have from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2066	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2069	When the revised national budget was presented in May, the reaction from, among others, On the left, the proposal ‘answers none of the challenges facing Norway’ and ‘the government has no will for Norway’. Such a statement would suggest that the Left in its own proposal for a revised national budget indicates a clear direction for Norway. But the proposal rather testifies to full speed in all directions. The left even says in the vote that this is a budgetary audit, and that the approach presented does not reflect all the political priorities of the Left in all areas. The same is true of the government's proposals. It is a budgetary audit that continues and reinforces the direction and political priorities of the 2011 budget. It's not a new budget. The objectives of economic policy are work for all, sustainable development, increased value creation, a fairer distribution and the strengthening of welfare systems. The Government has submitted a revised national budget for 2011 for continued growth in the Norwegian economy. Growth is higher than estimated last autumn, when the budget was presented, and the unemployment rate is lower. After the financial crisis, the main task of economic policy has been to keep people in work, and we have been able to do that very well. The unemployment rate is now down to 3 pst. by the labour force and below the average over the last 20 years. The challenge is to take care of these good results in the future. A clear direction and political priority for Norway. The draft budget audit also provides for a lower use of oil money than provided for in the budget. That means we're now under the 4 pst. path of the action rule. In its comments on the revised national budget, the right points to the intentions underlying the adoption of the action rule in 2001, to use the increased revenue for growth-enhancing measures, and believes that increased use of oil money should be channelled into infrastructure, education and research investment and to tax incentives for growth. Yes, it is true that these areas were pointed to, but also other areas contribute to growth. There are a number of items in the budget as a whole that contribute to increasing future value creation and well-being. The OECD has, for example: The OECD recommends strengthening efforts towards pre-school children, based on analyses showing high socio-economic returns. We have implemented this in the kindergarten reform. Kindergartens and school leisure schemes, the government's commitment to early school interventions and increased completion of secondary education are important contributions to future value creation. In addition, I would like to point out the government's commitment to developing the infrastructure. It is difficult to recognize in the black paint presented by the representative Hoksrud in his post. The government has followed up the decisions in the national transport plan, both during the previous period and during that period, and has also adopted an ambitious plan that is now being followed up. It is also not true that the adjustment of the tax system has come into the background. This government has continued the level of taxation from 2004 and, within this level, a major tax reform has been carried out, the VAT base has increased and the wealth tax has improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2082	I want to get to grips with something the Prime Minister said, namely that there is no law of nature that says that Norway cannot get into financial difficulties. Then I listen to the representative Hoksrud, the last representative of the Progress Party here in the pulpit, who obviously does not fully take this fact into account. Then I want to tell a little story about a state called Nauru. It's a small island outside Australia that became independent in 1968. Like Norway, they have, or had, great natural resources, in the form of what is called guano, which comes from thousands of years of bird shit. It has made them the world's largest presence of phosphates. Then they became independent in 1968 and began to extract this on their own in 1970. They went from being a very, very poor country to becoming the world's second richest country, measured in income per capita. It actually went so well in Nauru that they picked up foreign workers to take out these phosphates, while they actually cost themselves. They often went to Australia on shopping trips, they had two to three cars each, and a boat, they built 27 kilometers of road around the island, so they could drive. But then it began in the 1990s to end the guano, and the income fell radically. Today they are left with the world's highest incidence of diabetes, extreme obesity and a declining life expectancy. The reason for this was, of course, that the few funds they tried to manage the natural resources – for the future generations – were to set up an opera in London, like the flop, and they bought a house in Melbourne that was forced to sell a short time ago to cover debts. Today they are back to being a very poor country, and now they go to the international institutions and ask for debt relief. Why is this relevant? Well, it is now that within every theme there is a way from the past, through the present and into the future. And when you look at the Advance Party from the past, for example. When Carl Ivar Hagen stood here in the middle of the 1970s on this pulpit and said it could be a good idea to sell our oil resources for 10 billion. kr, through the 1990s, when it seemed quite fine to propose to reduce our petroleum tax, which would have meant that we had lost tens of billions of dollars of the oil fund, until now, when they do not recognise the rule of action as an economic supply gel – then I think that the way the Progress Party has gone from the past, through now and into the future, suspiciously reminds much of the way Nauru has gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2091	There are two themes that the government parties are still coming back to in this debate, and one is the excellence with which they have solved the financial crisis in Norway. I have to say that I feel a little awkward taste in my mouth when you compare yourself to countries in Europe and the rest of the world, which had completely different assumptions when you went into this financial crisis. Everyone who sits in this room knows that. That's why I think we should stop talking about it. We had assumptions that made us not both go to the loan market and other things; we could go in our own wallet and solve this. Another aspect is that reference is made to the increased use of money made by this government in recent years, and how much better things are going in the Norwegian economy. I would like to recall – in comparison with the Bondevik II period – what was in the newspaper when this government took over, in 2005. Then there was a big look where it said that this government “comes to the table and covered”. What was said was that the Bondevik II government had actually cleaned up the Norwegian economy in four years. Even significant incentives were put in place in the form of tax incentives, and it was perhaps in particular the loss of the investment tax – which led to an enormous boost in business – that gave us new growth and better economic growth and thus well-being throughout the country. So when these things are still drawn out, it might be wise to nuance the picture somewhat. When the right in its alternative revised budget has given priority to transport, it is not without reason. This is simply because we see that the road decay continues. That is why we take up again the proposal for a separate maintenance fund. We see an increased pressure on the big cities, so we focus on more money and targeted actions to get forward-looking rail development in the four metropolitan areas, and sketch an organisation to get it done. In addition, our main concern is actually road safety. It's been the last two years. We have to bring down the number of accidents because it leads to great human suffering, but of course also because it imposes great costs on society. That is why we prioritise money for road safety both on the county road network and on the national road network. Then again, we invite the government parties to our form of project organization, namely OPS solutions on our main roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2102	The right suggests more to nursing homes to ensure that all older people have a decent old age. We've had as much money for the municipalities as the government over the last six years. It is therefore not a krona to recruit several employees in the health and care sector who have not also voted for the Right. But money doesn't give you care, money doesn't hold your hand, money doesn't give you knowledge of what's the best treatment. Humans, on the other hand, give care, they hold your hand, and they have knowledge. More and more people need care. This also requires more people to provide care and care. It's not just enough to recruit more people, the goal must be to recruit more professionals. That's where the right and government parts separate layers. They're occupied with the number of hands, and it's good with warm hands, but as Florence Nightingale, the founder of the nursing profession, said: The work that works is done is what is done by competent hands, led by a clear brain and inspired by a loving heart. Earlier, older people walked to the old age home with their suitcases in their hands. Today, they're going to the hospital in an ambulance. On average, every resident in a nursing home now has six different active diagnoses. This requires people with knowledge to deal with that kind of challenge. The need for employees is increasing, but if this is covered by more unskilled workers, the quality of service will decline. Those most in need of help cannot be met by those with the least competence. Today, one of three jobs in the care sector are unskilled. They make a formidable effort and extend for a long time, but they are charged with tasks and responsibilities that they do not have the right opportunities to take. Competence in care is equal to quality. Therefore, in the revised budget of the year, the Right also proposes more money for municipalities to offer these employees the opportunity to receive a vocational education. When the government is more concerned with promising more employees than employing more professionals, the quality is weakened. This week, government parties have weakened the requirements for competence in the new Law on Municipal Health and Welfare Services. The municipalities should be given more responsibility for health and care services, but the government does not consider it necessary to require that municipalities have nurses, midwives or physiotherapists. If you need training after an injury, you need a physiotherapist. If you need help with medication, you need a nurse, and if you're going to go to pregnancy control, you need a midwife. It does not matter whether these disciplines exist in the municipality, it is, in fact, crucial for a good health and care service. Quality of care requires that we provide the elderly with the professionals needed to provide them with the best care.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2113	In this debate I think there have been many good speeches, and a lot of sensible debate. Therefore, I ask that my post be believed that it should be sincerely constructive and not a black paint of the situation. It's a challenge that I think we need to take much more seriously in the years to come, and that should have been taken much more seriously in the year we're in, and that's how we're going to get more people into work. We can easily get on the chest with low unemployment, and that's good, but we have a challenge that more and more people are falling out of work. I'm not going to start a rhetoric about outsiders, or if there's 600,000 or 800,000, but there's too many that fall out. From 2005 until now, the number of people with reduced working capacity has increased from 150 000 to 220 000. There have been 70,000 more people defined by Nav as people with disabilities. That's actually a good definition, because it defines that we have a residual ability to work, that we see a potential in them. But there is a definition that means that there is a need for substantial public intervention and help, and a significant effort by the user himself to get into work. The Labour Party spokeswoman, Anette Trettebergstuen, said that the level of intervention has been too low, and that is why we are increasing it in a revised way. But the fact is that the average to this year is that 60,000 people and a little more are on labour market measures for people with disabilities. They're not exposed to economic activity at all, they need help to get out. If unemployment goes down, it doesn't mean much to them. That's why it's going to be wrong when the budgets today are managed so much after unemployment. Now I look at the finance minister, and unfortunately it is not possible to get mad at the finance minister, both because he is Sigbjørn Johnsen, and because I am a southerner who cannot get mad! But at least I can be strict: in the next budget we have to take even greater account of that group of people increasing. Nav himself says in his reports that if we don't get more people to help out more, give them work training, give them training, they don't get out. Nav says it's as strong as the queue is going to increase. There are more who will be dissatisfied, and there are more who will end up in poverty. We all agree that it is human capital and work that is the most important thing. So I fervently ask from the Christian People's Party that the next budgets take it even more seriously. Now the average is 53,000, and that's the average. This means that if the revised product is to be followed, one must fall from 60000 to reach an average that may be down to 40 to 45000. I don't think that's a good idea. Since I have 10 seconds left, and that's the last day of the meeting, I'll say, "Good President, it has been an honor to have you as President!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2128	The debate here is very much about the concept of security: the security of the daily work of the people, the security that we, as a nation, put our consumption in a fair relation to income, and not least the security of people's houses and homes. These are important dimensions of the Right approach to economic policy. But for the Right, security is also about safe communities, that we have the opportunity and can feel confident that we can send our children to school every day, of course, so that they will learn more to get a ballast on their way through life, and to get a positive self-image, but also so that they can feel safe while they are staying at school, so that they are protected from bullying, drug sales, etc. This is visible in the Right Alternative to the revised budget. In our budget, it is also made visible that we want to create security for our young people who want to go out and have fun at the city this weekend, especially for the girls. We've seen examples of this, not least here in Oslo, that there is a need to increase this security. We now see that there are major challenges in Trondheim. That is why we are increasing the police budget, especially in order to create that security. In our alternative state budget and in this revised budget, we allocate nearly half a billion more to the police. It is necessary to create security, and because at the same time we see that the police coverage in the country is lower now with this government than when we were in the government ourselves. It is also important to provide security in preventing the emergence of organised crime. This is why, in today’s meeting, the Right presented a proposal for an intensified fight against the one-percent-MC environment, which is growing across the country. That is also why, in our draft budget today, we want to give a handshake to the volunteers who do valuable rehabilitation work in prisons and for former prisoners, so that they can get out of prisons and function in the law-abiding society without a relapse into crime. It's also safe. There is a whole in our alternative budget that broadens the perspective of security to a social development that Right wants to facilitate.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2139	Norway has, at least over the last four years, had a good promise for Norwegian workers. Using my home country Finnmark as an example, we now feel that unemployment in the county is very low. In many of the county municipalities, we have a situation where there is a shortage of labour, and several companies in the county also need more skilled labour. It is expected that municipalities, such as Kvalsund will establish mining activities, which can almost double the population of the municipality. That's a quite different situation than when the bourgeois ruled the country. Finnland, a district state, is particularly vulnerable to the market liberal economy represented by the bourgeois parties here on the Stortinget. Examples include the eagerness of the Right and the Advance Party to privatise important welfare schemes such as health and school. This is a policy that will tear down the foundations of a number of small municipalities in the country, where a health market and a school market do not exist at all. These municipalities therefore depend on a good and public welfare policy that also needs to facilitate good housing conditions in the municipality of Norway. This government, through the financial crisis, has had the necessary resources to lift the threat to business through the financial crisis. In addition, this government has taken public responsibility for the development of e.g.: the mining industry, including: through a survey of the presence of minerals in Finnmark. Here the government and the authorities that have taken responsibility are not the market, and it now provides the basis for new industries in the county. Finally, I would also like to comment on some of the changes proposed in the revision. For a long time, the defence has had a growing need to train its anti-personnel forces. It is now added to the revised version. Forty million. kr is set aside in additional appropriations to increase the exercise activity in the Home Office, and we believe that this is very good. Second, it's also set at another $30 million. kr to exceptional maintenance resources, additional appropriations to enable a number of our attachments, inter alia. Vardøhu fortress, which is an important cultural memory for the nation, but also for the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2149	Just a little visit to the representative Breen, if he's as happy in the country of Nauru. So what Carl I. Hagen suggested in the 1970s was not to give up our resources, not to sell our resources, but to others to extract our resources. But we should have eternal tax access to our own values. It's kind of like what we're doing today with the income of the State pension fund itself. So there has to be a difference between shaving and cutting off his head. We have a surplus that is transferred to the State pension fund in the current year. The government is proposing to transfer 313 billion. kr, Progress Party proposes 303,5 billion. kr. It's clear that there's probably not going to be Nauru states of it, and I'm really doubting that someone believes it. And then to the representative Willy Pedersen, who has to use the same scriptwriter as other workers' party representatives in the room today: it is that neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party want to privatize health and school. Now I say it again to everyone, and hope that many people watch TV, so that we don't hear it in the election campaign: the Advance Party and the Right don't want to privatize health and school services, school and education. Just so we're clear. Then I expect that it will be heard, and then it will not be repeated several times. I will talk a little about one of the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting today, about tax deductions for craft services and service tasks carried out in owner-occupied housing. We want this to combat black work and facilitate increased employment. Experience from Sweden shows that tax deductions for craft services and domestic service work lead to more maintenance work being carried out. This reduces the amount of undeclared work, provides more labour supply, provides more jobs, while much more houses are being repaired and maintained. At the same time, we record that a majority does not want to support our proposal, and that there is, in essence, fear that the system – the system – will not be exactly the same as before, and of course it will not. It'll be a little bit different. But the Progress Party is more concerned with results. It has produced good results, what has been done in Sweden. The Progress Party notes that the other members of the Committee introduce the concept of ‘tax expenditure’. This assumes that tax is initially money belonging to the country. The representative Eldegard emphasized it very well. She used the expression using our community money. It's an interesting expression -- it's going even further. But such thinking is fundamentally wrong. The tax money does not belong to the state or the municipality or anyone else, they belong to those who have actually earned this money, and they belong to people who own the money. And then we take in the money we need to run what we need to do from the public. Also the Right is part of this concept of ‘tax expense’, but I hope so, and I expect that, is a mistake, and that the next time you don’t agree with it. With regard to the Green Tax Commission, the Progress Party does not support it – perhaps not so surprising. We'd rather prefer a blue tax commission when we get to 2013, with a focus on tax relief for lower and medium incomes, so it pays to be at work, as we also say in our remark. And last of all – there are five seconds left – I want the Minister of Finance to have a really good summer!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2164	I was given the opportunity to listen to the representative Tybring-Gjedde's previous posts. He spent a lot of time on trade union quota deductions and thought it was ‘political corruption’ of the government parties to have this deduction. Now let me think a little bit about what the deduction of the quota really means. That's a few hundred dollars. I think that workers in this country are doing very easily without exactly this deduction. But the philosophy is that we from the left and SV want to strengthen the trade movement. Then we believe that when you lower the threshold to become a member, you strengthen the trade movement towards the capital and employers, who would very much like to have even more power and power. When the Progress Party wants to increase just this, they raise the threshold at the same time to organize themselves. In the organization lies power. The representative of Tybring-Gjedde understands that. He should understand that if he had ever been an employee. If not, the T-Bahn in Oslo still needs driver, a profession that can give the representative Tybring-Gjedde an understanding of what it means to be an employee at a completely different level than where he now sits and earns NOK 750,000. We want to strengthen the workers and the work movement, and we will. But instead, the representative of Tybring-Gjedde wants to strengthen employers and their finances by giving them tax deductions for domestic help. But the maid who is to come home to him or her, he will weaken. This is a weakening of working life and society that we have nothing to do with. That is why we want to stand firm to strengthen the trade union movement and workers by lowering the threshold to organise. We have understood that there is power in the organization, power lies in standing together, power lies in standing collectively against employers and capital. I really hope that one day the Advance Party will have the opportunity to do so. That is precisely why it is an independent point for SV to be part of the government and to be a stopper, a clear bomb, for the Progress Party, who wants to rage the trade movement in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2175	It was Irene Johansen's representative who made me take the floor again. I hadn't thought exactly that, but that's what happened. She thought that in the left we had no direction on our budget. There's probably a lot of other representatives Johansen could criticize the Left for, but not exactly that. She must have simply followed poorly under my post. In addition, the left is the most re-prioritizing – 4 billion in the opposition. kr. What do we spend this money for? I'll repeat some of what I said in my post instead. We have the exact same framework as the government has. The left prioritizes a targeted bet in some areas where it is required that we get a much more offensive and clear course than the government has. This concerns, in particular, a necessary commitment to school, education and research, a forward-looking and innovative industrial policy, an ambitious environmental and climate policy and a targeted poverty reduction policy. The remainder of the post may be seen by the representative in the minutes. If this is not a priority, I don't know. The left prioritises a targeted investment in the future. We're conscious of that all the time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2188	It has occurred to me that so far there is a fundamental difference when it relates to the approach and focus of the various parties in this debate. I'm going to concentrate on the Workers' Party, and I'm going to stress that for us in the Workers' Party, the main theme is to work for everyone's work and security for home and work. We must then pursue an economic policy that will facilitate a stable economic development in the short term, but also in a slightly longer perspective. It is crucial for our industrial workplaces, and it is crucial for young people with large debts who have invested both in education and at home. Norway is in a good development now. The unemployment rate is record low, and new jobs are created a lot. Our countercyclical policy has been closed down. It's also that we've seen our stamp on the differences in the country. After 2005 and the management of the right-hand side, this has now turned in the right direction. These are linked to two principal political pillars, namely a clear policy for low unemployment and a comprehensive and controversial tax system. The Norwegian social-democratic model of society is forward-looking and lays the foundation for our well-being. So I now have a little bit of debate in need of a couple of reflections in relation to the representative Jan Tore Sanner and Right, who, after Kristin Klemet had responsibility in his time, is trying to make his way into school policy. Sanner said he wasn't busy privatizing our community ball. Well, I'm going to say it's eye-catching. That's exactly what they were doing before Stoltenberg got to stop it. But if in Sanner's statement there's a recognition that there was a gross error of the Right, there's nothing better than that. It is that what is happening in our school is important in terms of achieving our main economic policy objectives. Those with a low level of education have a more vulnerable relationship with the world of work than others. But now it's much better in our school. After the right-hand side turned the school into an ideological battlefield, there's no peace in our school. That means it's easier to get results. It also means that things are going better. Our teachers are on, and most of the arrows are pointing in the right direction in the common sphere.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2203	I have no strong desire to extend this debate further, but just a brief remark to the last speaker, Tor Bremer, who thought it was remarkable that I affirmed that the Right will not privatize school and care. It should not be alarming if the representative is aware of the actual nature of privatisation. Privatizing means selling something that is public to private people. If the Right had gone in to put a school out for sale, it would have involved privatisation. Just as when the Workers' Party has been together with the bourgeois parties in privatising Telenor, privatising Statoil, something that is state-owned is sold to private. The right has always been very clear that we do not privatise funding for school and care. We do not privatise the quality assurance of the services. Ensuring funding and quality assurance is a public responsibility. But we have – unlike the red-green parties – a rather pragmatic relationship with who performs the service, and that is a significant difference, because we don't think monopoly is always the best. We believe in diversity in a number of areas, that diversity can help to strengthen quality and create better services both for the elderly and for young people. There we have a different position than the red-green ones. But it's not about privatisation – it's about diversity and quality development.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2210	I'm assuming that people would like to end now, but there must be comments on that post from the Right now. Firstly, it is clear that it is only the stupidest liberals who want to privatize things completely, because then you take away the tax financing and the financial base that makes it possible for commercial interests to want to participate. That's what we're looking at in a lot of areas, because there's soon to be limits to how many things you can produce in the world. Then there are a lot of people who need to put their profit suckers into the public welfare funds. It's a theme that SV is busy about, and the government is busy with. We want to make a reservation for the community money to be used for care, not for private profit. Then there is a desire to have a diversity and cooperation with the voluntary non-profit sector. That's what SV wants. And here we want to see if it is also possible to make changes to the legislation that allow us to cooperate more closely and better with the voluntary non-profit sector. Especially when it comes to school, I'm a little surprised that the Right has not got the international research results that so clearly show that the school policy direction that the Right is in, and that they were in the process of implementing while they were in government, is the school policy direction that just doesn't succeed in the important things – in being able to give all the kids a really good educational result, both professionally and socially, that takes care of the Community values that society has and that is so incredibly important to all the kids, that they learn best when they are together with many who are different from themselves, that is, that the purely professional results get better then. That was the school policy that the Right was in the process of implementing, and that the Swedish government was in the process of stopping, and that is now helping us get better results in school than we had before. That's SV both happy and proud of.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2221	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. Three, four, five. [[See pages 5064 and 5174]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2237	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2253	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2269	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2285	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2301	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2318	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2334	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2350	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2366	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2382	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2398	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2414	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2430	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2448	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2466	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2484	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2503	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2521	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5175]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2539	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 5176]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2557	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 5176]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2575	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 5176]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2593	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 5176]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2611	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 5176]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2629	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 5176]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2647	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5177]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2665	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5177]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2683	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5177]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2702	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5177]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2720	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5177]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2738	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5177]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2756	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 5178]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2772	The President will propose that speaking time be limited to 40 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party and up to 5 minutes to members of the Government. Furthermore, the President will propose that there should be no change of line. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2779	I am very pleased to be able to present a broad agreement on the predatory game policy for treatment here today. It is an important task of a Parliament to manage nature and ecosystems in a sound manner, and it is a quality sign of the Norwegian collapse that we are able to gather on a predictable and comprehensive policy for our predators. The two-part objective underpins predatory management. We need both predators and grazing in Norway. We have an international responsibility to take care of predators. At the same time, we have a long tradition of exploiting our field for nutritional purposes. It's an important part of our agriculture, and it's helped shape the Norwegian cultural landscape. We also have an obligation to take care of that. I have heard some claim that the two-part goal cannot be realized, and that it is an expression of cowardice when we do not admit that grazing and predators cannot be combined. But then there's a reason to ask, what's the alternative? We have to be able to pursue a policy that combines both interests, and through this agreement, we are doing important steps to get this done. For us, it has been important to avoid symbolism policies and to identify measures that effectively help to reduce the losses in grazing and mitigate the level of conflict. In addition, we keep the stock targets at a level that is sound for species survival, but at the same time lower the threshold for stripping and individual individuals causing injury. We clearly state that there should be no predators representing a potential for damage in areas that are priority for grazing. We lower the damage trap threshold and impose a much greater responsibility on the state to contribute to the effective withdrawal of the quotas set. Lowering the threshold to extract pests is particularly relevant in the case of bears. Today, we have a great imbalance between the number of inner bears and the number of male bears, which means that wandering male bears do not contribute to the reproduction and fulfilment of juvenile targets. It is mainly these wandering males that do harm. When we put a ceiling of 1.5 male bears per entrance, it will mean significantly fewer wandering male bears, while keeping the juvenile target at a decent level. At the same time, it is now decided that the management of bears will be transferred to the regional level when ten young people are reached. The wolf is the only major predators with critically endangered status. The stock target of three helnorphic juveniles was reached for the first time last year. We're not sure we'll make it this year. Sweden is in the process of carrying out a comprehensive professional investigation to provide us with an answer as to how large the southern Scandinavian wolf tribe must be in order for it to be characterised as viable. The settlement partners believe it is natural and logical that the wolf is managed in close cooperation with Sweden, and we will enter into negotiations to reach an agreement on the wolf management immediately after the Swedish investigation is completed in 2012. Until that happens, the stock target of the wolf is fixed. The question of dog emergency has been debated in this room repeatedly. It's an important matter for the population living in the wolf zone, and we're glad we finally got this in place. Much greater and less administrative intervention is being made through this agreement to clarify administration. In the opinion of the settlement partners, it is absolutely necessary to reduce the level of conflict in large parts of the country. When the government invited the Storting to enter into a broad settlement, it was based on the stock measures for wolves, bears and emergency dogs. It became early clear that the Stortinget wanted to go further to work and discuss predatory policies more generally. That's what the Storting has done, and I think that's good. Let me make it clear that through this agreement, we make it clear how the management of our major predatory species is going to take place, and we ensure predictability. It is important both for the survival of predatory game species and for those engaged in commercial activities and living in predatory areas. At the end of the day, I would like to express my great thanks to my colleagues for their cooperation in this area. I also thank the department, who has worked on this matter for a long time. With this I address the proposals referred to in the representative proposal 163 S.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2807	The representative Martin Kolberg has taken up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2810	The Progress Party has been involved in an important settlement, and we are happy that we got good results in this. It is, in our opinion, an important shift in policy that is now being confirmed. The policy pursued on the basis of the 2004 conciliation has not delivered the results as desired. I think all the conciliators also realized that, when, after all, they sat down and wanted to assess the policy that was. The intention is that one reduces the conflicts that occurred in the wake of Norwegian predatory management. I think we should do that. The specific points contained in the agreement and the intentions behind it allow one to have the stock targets that one has, while ensuring that the level of conflict is reduced by increasing the influence of predators on management. It's important. I would like to thank those with whom we have been negotiating, both when the negotiations were at committee level and when they were at parliamentary level. We have experienced them as quite demanding, but very tidy and constructive. Despite considerable disagreement on how to interpret international conventions, on how to maintain viable populations – whether at Norwegian or Scandinavian level – and on many different ways of seeing the problems, a person has been concerned about how to address this for the benefit of both the predators to live, the livestock to graze, and the people living in the predatory areas. I think that's very good. I hope this can also be reflected in other major issues where it is important to settle. One will particularly encourage the government to try to reconcile the Storting in several cases, rather than press through its policy with the slightest margin. What the Progress Party places on this is that one just gives more power to those who live in predatory areas. One thus gets the chance to improve local management, one gets the chance to take out pests faster and better than before, and the right to emergency relief is strengthened. This makes those predators who – if we say it a little simple – live peacefully, become. Those predators who create insecurity and do harm are more likely to defend themselves against than they are today. That's what I think is needed for you to also bring down the level of conflict, that people feel that they have the power to do something about the situation if it gets too unsustainable. I don't think there are many people in this country who want to eradicate predators just for doing so, but people want to have a sense of security where they live, a feeling that they can live in their communities without being afraid of what they meet when they go out the door. It ensures the agreement, while ensuring that people who can walk around and get ready don't get shot. That's the other side. To have an administration that is accepted on both the environmental protection side and the predatory side, everyone must live up to the responsibility of the administration. There are a number of questions that are being put at risk by someone trying to solve them. This applies, inter alia, to: wolf management. I suppose everyone agrees with the following: The fact that the wolf is mentioned does not mean that any of the parties take responsibility for the settlement in 2004 for the wolf. We'll get back to that. It also applies to predatory zones. In the case of bears, we experience significant improvements, making it easier to manage the bear population without conflict. For y'all and y'all, the stock targets are maintained, but by getting a greater degree of local management and the possibility of pest extraction, I think it'll be an improvement for the population. It is also important to focus on the elements relating to training, greater knowledge for predators, for hunting teams, etc., in order to ensure that good professional decisions are made both in the proper performance of their duties, so that those who are going to hunt predators, if necessary, do so in a good and accurate manner. There are restrictions on pest withdrawals today and some experience that municipal boundaries or clocks put an end to the withdrawal of defined animals. So I'm glad that in the future this will be easier to do without those constraints. But again, we're happy. We felt that the Progress Party had a good impact. But we also felt that all the parties could be pleased with the agreement that is on the table, because it weighs well for and against. And then we hope that the implementation is carried out by the Minister for Environmental Protection in the way that the settlement partners had the intention to.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2829	The way in which Norwegian aggregates have worked on this matter is quite untraditional – with or without blank sheets, so at least no propositions or proposals from the government at the bottom. Of course, it has also sometimes been a difficult process to deal with – and perhaps also to see how to get through. When we finally get through with a deal that's behind all of the parties on the Stortinget, it's a pretty significant trick, because this is an area where the opinions of the parties represented here are, in reality, somewhat different, and where the feelings associated with the debates around this are pretty strong. Nevertheless, there is a win for the desire for stability, soundness and long-termity, but there is also a need to do something to reduce the level of conflict in some areas and in some communities in Norway that today experience a rather significant sense of strain because of the desire of the large community to preserve more predators in our society. Then it's incredibly important that the same big community, represented by us as politicians, be able to see how we can make the conflicts smaller, while at the same time reaching the goal of taking our share of international obligations to preserve our big predators and make sure that they can develop further. But we have to see it in a context, by seeing which strain the predator belongs to, because we're part of the Scandinavian area, and therefore we also have to look at how we are going to do this with our neighboring country. For us, it has been important to get conflict-reduction measures, to give more local authority in these matters, to provide better opportunities for local administration, which is close to the decisions, to greater power and influence. We probably had a desire to make this even clearer, but this is a compromise where we've established that since we've reached the stock targets on the wolf, on yours and on the gaupe, it's now regional administration that's going to be the answer, because that's what the 2004 agreement said. In addition, we have agreed on regional management at an earlier stage than full stocking targets on bear. We believe that this will contribute to smaller local conflicts, and we have stressed that regional administration is the first instance and that the right to appeal should be passed on to the Ministry of the Environment. In addition, we have achieved a reduction in the stock measures on the bear, and there is a strong consensus that the load of some male bears is too large for us to continue to calculate two male bears per inn. Instead, we've gone down to 1.5. That means that there will be fewer of the bears that may be perceived as the most conflict-making, because it is the ones that do the most harm when they walk around. So that's going to change. In addition, there is a significant point that I think is important, and that is that we have agreed on grazing. Although our objective is not to be appeased by the Animal Welfare Act in the years to come with better management of the predatory game, we have therefore agreed on the basic principle – I think – for any management of the big society in terms of private property rights, namely that if grazing rights are imposed, one should be fully compensated at the same time from day one. The rules are to be made by the Ministry, but full compensation has now been confirmed. I think there are a lot of people who will be happy about that. This is an area where there are currently considerable concerns, because there are quite a number of farmers who have been warned by the Food Authority about grazing. That's why I look forward to solving this in the years to come. There are many small and large measures that will contribute to better management in the years to come. Perhaps the most difficult issue has actually been the subject of long-term wolf policy. That means we'll get back to this. Hopefully, we'll be able to get a joint Scandinavian management of the wolf and get clear principles for it. In this case, it will make it possible to maintain not only sustainability but also sound management in those areas that currently experience the greatest burden.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2846	In this debate of cooperation, I choose to believe that I was not moved down the rogue list by the President. Carnivores are part of Norwegian fauna, and predators enrich Norwegian nature. There is an important input to this debate. Little too often, the premise for the discussions on predators is that predators alone are a burden, or that we only take care of the four large predators because we have an international obligation to do so. But it is also important to establish that predators are part of Norwegian fauna, and that these are animals we have to take care of. When everyone is satisfied with a settlement, at least in this case – all from SV to the Progress Party – it is probably some people who become suspicious and think that there is something buried here. It is a suspicion that I fully understand, but in this case it is not true. I fully agree with the representative of Solvik-Olsen that all parties have reason to be satisfied with this agreement. That's because I think both sides of this debate have had to think, what's most important to us? Then the solution was exactly what many predicted before we started the negotiations, in common with the four large predators in Norwegian nature, in common with the acceptance of stock targets and in implementing changes in the administration, as it has been a strong desire, from local teams, to implement. I am not going to repeat the changes in the administration and the new grips we are doing, as other representatives have explained. I want to take one thing, which also Solvik-Olsen was inside. Competitive measures for the collation of licences and the establishment of several courses shall be worked on, and we shall give priority to the training of precipitation teams. It's important. It is important both to avoid dangerous situations in the slightly enlarged chase we will experience in the future, and it is important because everyone agrees that it is the licence hunt that should be the bearer of how we may regulate these stocks – and that is important. On the administrative front, we make some wise changes, I think. We're increasing the capacity of the secretariats. I think that's important, and that's something I think all the parties have got a lot of feedback about. We encourage municipalities to have greater competence in predator issues, and we commit ourselves to spending money on it. We are asking the government to oblige the environmental management to investigate time limits for handling and complaints related to claims and, in one case, we will also shift administrative authority to the predators when we have reached ten juveniles of the bear. So just a little bit overall in the end about the back porch for this deal: I just have to say that I met a school class outside the hall here instead. It was explained to whom there were pictures of the walls, and who the different busts were of, and then I couldn't dive. I had to run away to them and say that we politicians don't just do polemics in the hall here, but sometimes we write history. And we definitely do that today. In the past, Norwegian policy was to eradicate the large predators from Norwegian nature, and as Stortinget often does, we succeeded in achieving the objectives. We were able to eradicate the predators. As a result, in 1930 we had neither bear nor wolf in Norwegian nature. Since then there has been a slow restoration of these species. Today we have about 30 wolves and approx. 160 bears. So today we adopt a unanimous agreement, where all the parties agree that these four large predators are part of the Norwegian fauna. It's historical, and there's every reason to be happy and satisfied with it. That will give exactly the predictability that I think everyone is happy about. It is true that we will decide on new stock targets for wolves later, and that there will be no changes in wolf policy until further notice. In Sweden, investigations have now been completed on the basis of the new up-to-date predatory policy, which they will adopt on their side. There it is recommended to double the number of wolves and increase the number of bears significantly. We have adopted our starting point for negotiations with Sweden in new discussions. I look forward to adopting new stock targets in cooperation with Sweden, with this as a rug. Then I just want to thank you for a very good cooperation with all the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2867	The title of the proposal states that it is about predators, predators and the management of our predators. But it's just as much about people. What's the great thing about this deal is that it takes people seriously, and that it's a completely different tone compared to the challenges local people have that have predators close on their bodies. I represent a state, Hedmark, where we have all four major predators, and where the level of conflict has been very high. There's been a lot of strong feelings. I think some of the feelings have the background that you haven't felt that you've been listened to, that you haven't felt that you've been seen, and that you've been partly ridiculed or made stupid. This agreement shows that the whole Biggest is taking these challenges seriously, that we are taking seriously the challenges people who have predators close to their bodies have. There is, in itself, a conflict-reduction measure — perhaps almost the most important conflict-reduction measure. We in the Center Party believe that the course has been reversed in this agreement, and that very many good measures have been put in place. I'll mention some of them. It will include, among others: more regional governance – a good measure for those living close to the problems to have more power to solve them. There's an emergency for dogs. There has been a great debate over several years. In Norway we have a living hunting culture, and we take this seriously. The introduction of emergency dogs is a good response to the developments we have experienced there. Hannibals are to be taken out. Young male bears, like young men, create a lot of trouble. There have been very many young males, especially in my state, who have traveled about without purpose and meaning, and created a lot of bullies on their way. When it is now fixed on Stortinget that they are to be taken out, it is very wise. There will be effective and targeted measures to reduce the damage to grazing and grazing animals and to reduce local unrest. For example, a few miles from where I lived, there was a young male bear trying to get into a house many times last fall. It'll now be easier to take out. That's good, and that's wise. The public shall take a far greater responsibility for taking out pests. We are the ones who have introduced that we should have predatory game, and then we should also have a responsibility to take them out. Less restrictions are imposed in the case of a fall in damage, both the time period in which it is to be committed and the geographical area where the fall in damage can be carried out. Something that's created an incredibly large frustration is if you've got an injury trap on an animal and you get to a municipal border and then suddenly you don't get to trap anyhow even if it's the same animal. It shall be amended accordingly. It is also very clear that, in priority grazing areas, predator management is responsible for the fact that the priority grazing areas are, in fact, priority grazing areas, and that it is not the individual grazing user, but that it is the administration, the public, that is to go in and take responsibility when it is said that an area should be a priority for grazing. These are some of a number of measures that will help people, and will bring down the level of conflict. So there's more that's been inside this with the wolf. There is also considerable grip. It is an important principle that is put in place, and that is that the border wolf should be considered a factor of 0,5. It has been a big conflict theme that you have a lot of border wolf flocks that are not counted in the Norwegian stock target. If you have four to five flocks on the border, and no one is expected, it gives a wrong picture of how much wolf it actually is in Norway. Now the Stortinget determines that the wolf that is actually there is to be counted for future positions, and that the border wolf is to be counted by a factor of 0.5. Then we'll discuss when we get back to what's going to be the new national stock target. There will be different starting points with a background in the positions we had in 2004. I would also like to raise the point of grazing – it is nice to agree with a representative from the Right as I am today – where it is said quite clearly that full compensation will be given from day one. That's a good new point. So finally, the tone of the agreement shows that the local population is now being taken seriously, that the users of grazing are being taken seriously, and that those who use nature around Norway are being taken seriously and that everything becomes more predictable. It is possible to use the field, to harvest from the field, to have a living agriculture throughout the country, and also to take seriously the great frustration that has been experienced by those who are hunting, by introducing emergency shelters for dogs. This is a good compromise that draws policy in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2888	The majority today again demonstrates its ability to gather on a large and important agreement. I do not remember that the Stortinget at any time I have been in Norwegian politics, has adopted such a comprehensive and detailed instruction to any government that this predatory settlement represents. There is a dimension to the agreement that we have concluded, which is important for the Storting, because that means that this is not just an agreement between party groups, but the national parliament of the country will, after all, adopt this today in the form of an instruction to the Council of State and its administration. It also provides a good basis for follow-up. I believe that the decision takes account of Norway's obligations to contribute to viable predatory populations in a very good and balanced manner, while respecting the safety and quality of life of individuals and communities. And it solves concrete challenges for agriculture and sanitation. I will join in the thanks. I would like to mention in particular the parliamentary leader of the Labour Party, Martin Kolberg, who, through the crucial stages of the negotiations, has set us free in an excellent way. I also mention the negotiator, Eirin Sund, who also constructively and solution-orientedly led the debates in the first round. Not everyone has ever thought that we should actually end up with this broad, cross-political agreement. The Christian People's Party (Christian People's Party) has been clear that we have wanted a wide-ranging settlement since the government invited us to settle in the debate on the throne, and we have made it clear that we felt that there was a need for a new and improved policy, because the 2004 agreement did not work in the face of today's challenges. The National Government of the Christian People's Party has shown its positions in a constructive way and early in the phase, and I am happy to say that we feel that we have had a significant impact on what is being adopted today. The historical agreement on predatory policies is knowledge-based, it will prevent conflicts and will provide greater security. For the Christian People's Party, it was important to strengthen confidence in predator management, among other things. by effectively extracting harmful predators and ensuring that the stock of predatory game does not grow beyond the objectives set. These include: to provide a smaller number of harmful stripe bears, and we have been concerned with increasing competence and strengthening the basis for regional and local management based on national stock targets. With this agreement, we strengthen regional management, and we ensure a better balance between the concerns of grazing animals and predators, among other things. in case of a faster extraction of pests. The Christian People’s Party also wanted emergency provisions to include predatory attacks on dogs. It is unreasonable to demand that people stand still and watch their dog be killed by a wolf without being able to intervene. I would therefore like to mention in particular that it is important that we now agree that predators can be killed out of emergency by direct attack on a dog. For the Christian People's Party, it has been essential that the condition of the populations is assessed in the context of the status of Swedish populations. We have reached a cross-political agreement that Norway will negotiate with Sweden that the wolves in the border area between our two countries should be included in the stock target. A roof is placed on the number of male bears, so that it does not exceed one and a half times the number of inner bears, and the stock measure for young bears is set at 13. Effective time limits will also be set for the proceedings. The management of predators is fundamentally concerned with the management and management of viable populations, on the one hand, with regard to the quality of life of the Norwegian community and the safety of individuals, and, on the other hand, with regard to the agricultural and reindeer industries. Managing responsibility is the basic idea of Christian democratic environmental policy. The aim of all policies shall be to address today's challenges without jeopardising the potential of future generations to meet their needs. Therefore, people must manage the soil in the best possible way and ensure sustainable development. This includes, inter alia: taking responsibility for biodiversity. That's why it's important for the Christian People's Party that the four great predators bear, wolf, yerv and gupe must be managed knowledge-based, so that we take our share of the responsibility to secure viable populations of these. The uncertainty experienced in some areas needs to be taken seriously, and I feel that this decision is being taken. Action must be taken. We have also seen the concrete challenges facing the agricultural industry. It is very important and gratifying that the Storting today adopts a settlement that meets these challenges in a good, responsible and balanced way. I would also like to stress that Norway as a nation has a responsibility for Southern Sami culture. Southern Sami culture is inextricably linked to reindeer management. Both the Southern Sami culture and the reindeer industry are currently critically threatened by a large and growing stock of predators. We are pleased that the Storting today is taking action to meet this situation. We went to negotiations with great impatience to reach an agreement. It is important that the Storting has now come to that conclusion – make this decision. It gives clear instructions for government and administration about necessary policy changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2914	Ibsen said that the will, it is the one that counts, the will frees or traps. Today, the Stortinget shows the will for a settlement, and I believe that the similarities are the jewel of the Norwegian Parliament. It's when we manage to sit down with difficult and important things, manage to reach an agreement like this, that you really see that political work can lead to something that brings us on. Why was it important for the Left to join a settlement here? First of all, it's an extremely conflicty area that had a very good deal of a broad consensus. It is also conflictful because there is a large majority of the people who support a policy, but who do not speak loudly about it, while some of the people feel really bored with the policy being pursued – and that leads to mistrust in our political system. And then I think we're going to be so honest that we say that almost all parties are divided into the matter, because we have some parts of the party that stand for one policy, while other parts of the party think that that policy is hard to bear, depending on where they live. It is important to say that we have now established that our policy should be based on a knowledge base we have, that it should be built on, and that we have a common understanding that having a knowledge-based policy in this area is actually important. The left has had the Berne Convention and the Nature Diversity Act as the starting point for our position. What I think is very nice today, and as I think is a great victory, is that we, all the parties on the Stortinget, have decided that all the four large animals are part of our common responsibility, and that they are to be found in Norwegian nature. There has actually been uncertainty about before today. So it's like this equation also gives more predators. We've reached the goal of gaupe and y'all. We're going to have a discussion with the Swedes about the wolf. We're going to go on, but we're getting a better balance between females and males, which I think is very conflict-preventive. Then it's like we've agreed that we're going to try to reach a common agreement with the Swedes in the case of wolves. I think that's fundamentally correct and fundamentally conflict-relieving, because very many of the wolves that create problems are wolves that we have in common with the Swedes, and with which we should have a common administration and policy. I also think it's good that we should look at the wolf zones and the division of them, and that we can also look at the distribution of yours in relation to the strain that the southern Sami environment is being subjected to, as the representative of the Højbrätten took up. I think that's wise corrections to the previous deal. Then we're going to be included on advice in the case of new replacement schemes. I just want to mention two sentences about it when the council sits and listens. For us, it is important that we decide together that we should have some predators in Norwegian nature. There's someone who has to bear the burden of. There are some people who actually have to do the job that we jointly decide to do. They should be paid for the job they are going to do. That's why the Left believes that we should have a replacement system where people get paid for the job they have to do for the community, to be a grazing industry that should work with predators that we agree to have. Then they should be paid for that job and that burden. The fact that today we have a compensation system that is basically destructive, where people are paid to look for cadavers, is a poor strategy to bring understanding between those who are under stress and those who have decided that they should have that burden. Maybe people can get more paid to take preventive measures than just getting paid to look for carcass. Finally, I would like to do as others, thank both the parliamentary leader of the Workers' Party, the fractional leader of the Workers' Party in the Committee and all the other parties around the table. I want to end with what was on the top of the sheet of my advisor, whom he sent out to all the county leaders now, because there it said: If you want to, it's amazing what you get.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2940	Let me start by congratulating the Storting, congratulating all those who have done this fine job. The government invited the Stortinget to find such a settlement, and the government has provided much of the knowledge on which the Stortinget has made a decision. But the Stortinget has done this job, and I mean this is a historic day, and it's a brand day for Norwegian nature. The most basic thing that's happening today is that a unanimous big thing is that we're going to have all four big predators in Norwegian nature. They're part of Norwegian nature, and they're going to be there, and I'm familiar with it the first time a Norwegian big thing ever says that. It's historic. So the Stortinget also says that just in order to have predators in Norwegian nature, we need to reduce the conflicts around these predators. It is also positive and, of course, in line with the government's policy. I must also add that I believe that the Stortinget today takes a decision that is in line with what I have said many times from this pulpit, that the tame majority in Norway, the large, broad majority in Norway, believes that we should have both outreach farming in Norway and predatory animals in Norway. We have avoided the two extreme extreme extremes – those that are against all predators, and those that believe that we do not need sheep feeding – and we have found a good, comprehensive compromise between ourselves. Let's remember on this historic day that in 1845 the Stortinget decided that we would eradicate all predators in Norway. That policy worked, and until about 1930 we got as close to zero as possible. There were practically no predators in Norway. I still remember, as late as when I was a boy, the fear we all felt when there went a rumor in the South-Gudbrand valley that there was seen a wolf. No one could document it, but it was a rumor about it, and that was enough for – I get to say – our hairs to rise on our backs. Of course, there are people who feel uncomfortable with wolves today, but it is a fundamentally new situation. The reason for this is that, over the past three decades, viable populations of all predators in Norway have gradually been built up — even though the wolf is still critically threatened. But the Stortinget says that predators belong in Norwegian nature, and that they enrich Norwegian nature. I agree with Dagfinn Højbrätten that this is in line with the administrator's idea. I want to say that it is also in line with the common, old, historical peasant morality, that as a society we are going to pass on Norwegian nature to the next generation in the same or better condition than we have received it ourselves. We're going to run management based on knowledge, and one of the most important things that's happened in this debate is that we've gained incredibly much more detailed knowledge. It allows us to liquidate some of the myths that are around predators, and based on what we actually know. Some time ago, I answered questions from the representative Bredvold – a very good question – about a wolf, who when he asked the question Friday, was around the edge of the Hamar and caused problems there. When I answered the question on Wednesday the week after, the wolf was far inside Sweden. Meanwhile, it had visited half of South Norway, including Lillestrøm, to take the closest to Oslo. In other words, we have detailed knowledge of how it moves, something you didn't have before.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2958	The size has come up with a number of detailed proposals on the level of knowledge. Of course, the government, the Ministry of the Environment and the environmental management must follow up on these. I would also like to say that the Storting must, of course, provide for the adequate appropriations for this in the harvest budget, so that we can follow up the good intentions that the Storting has now expressed. In the case of y'all and y'all, there's little change. In the case of wolves, the historical new thing is that it is now explicitly said – and I have mentioned it many times: let us cooperate much more with the Swedes in this area. It is a Swedish centre party that is the Minister for the Environment, Andreas Carlgren. I am very happy to cooperate with him on this. In Sweden, there is a debate on increasing the number of wolves in the Swedish wolf zone, and Carlgren is concerned with a particular issue, namely how to create a link between the Finnish-Ugrian wolf zone and the Norwegian-Swedish wolf zone to prevent genetic degeneration of wolves. But all these are topics that we are happy to cooperate with the Swedes on. When it comes to bears, I think Stortinget now facilitates a very good policy. That's the combination of making sure we get more bears in Norway. We're going to get that through this decision, but at the same time we're going to have less conflict around the bear in Norway, because we're bringing forward more juvenile insides. We'll take better care of the inside. We also take better care of male bears in the interior areas, but we avoid males that do great damage outside the interior areas. So this is a balanced, wise policy that will give more bears, but less harm, and that's exactly what the broad majority in Norway wants. So thank you to Stortinget for this very good arrangement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2966	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-seven. [[See page 5178]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e2979	Then we are ready to vote on case No. 2-37 on today's map. Case No. One, we're going to add up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e3018	A total of 78 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: the proposals No 1-7, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progressive Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 8, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 9 and 10, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 11-13, from Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 14-29, by Ulf Leirstein on behalf of the Progressive Party, proposal No. 30, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 31, by Jan Tore Sanner on behalf of the Right and Left proposals No. 32-38, by Jan Tore Sanner, on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 39–44, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 45-54, by Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 55 to 78, from Borghild Tende on behalf of the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 55 to 78, from the left. Proposal No. 55 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2011 shall be amended as follows: 1H.M. The King and H.M. The Queen51stDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanishDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanishDanDanDanDanDanishDanDanishDanDanDanishDanDanDanDanDanishDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDanDan [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 441 item 1, increased by 53 397 000 from NOK 9 298 192 000 to NOK 9 351 589 00021Special operating expenditure, increased by 9 100 000 from NOK 164 389 000 to NOK 173 489 000441Oslo police district1Operating expenditure, can be used under Chapter. 440 entry 1, increased by 500 000from NOK 1 830 000 to NOK 1 893 926 000 to NOK 1 894 426 000445The higher public prosecutor’s expenditure, increased by 3 000 000 from kr 134 250000 to kr 137 250 000451Societal security and preparedness1Operating expenditure, reduced by 9 500 000 from kr 568 597 000 to kr 657 652 000 to kr 669 402 00045Breeding costs, operating costs, and maintenance, can be transferred, reduced by 4 000 000 from kr 6 4 498 000 to kr 2 498 000446.56Directorate of emergency communication1Operating costs, increased by 50 000 from kr 240 970 000 to kr 291 80000 spent on projects, and spent on projects in favour of 30 000 from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from krbs from [[New]] [[New]] 821 entry 60, increased by 1 836 000from €500, 000from €30, 000from €30, 000from €30, 000from €30, 000from €30, 000from €30, 000from €30, 000from €30, 000from €30, 000from €30, 000from €40, 000from €40, 000from €40,50, 000from €15,50,50,552from €30,500 from €30, 000from €30, 000 from €30, 000 from €30, 000 from €30, 000 from €30, 000 from €30, 000 from €30, 000 from €30, from €30, 000 from €30, from €30, from €30, 000 from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, €30, 000 from €30, from €30, from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from € 30, from € 30, from €29, from € 30, from € 30, from €30, from €29, € 30, € 30, €29, € 30, € 30, from € 30, € 30, from € 30, from € 30, from € 30, and from € 30, from € 30, from € 30, from € 30, from € 30, from € 30, from € 30, from € 30, and from € 30, and from € 30, from € 30, and from € 30, and from € 30, and from € 30, from € 30, from € 30, and from € 30, from € 30, from € 30, from € 30, from € [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 1760, entry 45, can be transferred, reduced by 94 408 000from €8 131 884 000from €8 037 476 00048jointly funded works, can be transferred, reduced by 100 000 from €134 000from €34 000from €34 000from €34 000from €34 000 from €418 000 from €418 000 from €418 000 from €418 000 from €418 000 from €430 000 from €430 000 from €430 000 from €430 000 from €430 000 from €430 000 from €430 000 from €430 000 from €430 000 from €430 000 from €34 000 from €34 000 from €418 000 from €418 000 from €418 000 from €418 000 from €418 000 from €418 000 from €230 000 from €285 915 000 from €210 000 from €210 000 from €230 000 from €230 000 from €230 000 from €230, from €230 000 from €230 000 from €230, from €230 000 from €296 from €23030, from €2 billion from €230, from €230, from €2303030, from €30 from €230, from €230, from €230, from €23030 from €230330303030, from €330, from €230, from €230 to €230 from €230 from €30 from €230 from €230, from €330, from €30 from €330 from €330, from €30 from €30 from €330 from €330 from €330, from €30 from €30, from €330, from €330, from €330, from €330, from €30, from €230, from €29, from €30, from €30, from €30 to €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30 from €30 from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30 from €30, from € [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] from the State Financial Fund, reduced by 27 000 000 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 40 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 000 from 10 000 from NOK from NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK 10 000 from NOK from NOK from 30 000 from NOK from NOK from NOK from 30 from 30 from NOK from NOK from 30 from NOK 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 10 to 000 from 30 from 30 from 10 to 000 from 10 to 000 from 10 to 000 from 30 from 10 to 000 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 10 to 000 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 to 000 from 30 to 000 from 30 from 30 to 000 from 30 to 000 from 30 to 000 from 30 to 000 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 to 000 from 30 to 000from Proposal No. 56 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government for a preliminary ruling on 20 p.m., and at the latest on the 2012 state budget. tax deductions for personal, permanent investments in companies up to 500000 kroner.» Proposal No. 57 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the 2012 State Budget, to return to the Stortinget with proposals for a legislative amendment to allow self-employed persons to use minimum deductions in the same way as private individuals.’ Proposal No. 58 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the 2012 State Budget, to come back to the Stortinget with a legislative proposal on the introduction of rules on the provision of a fund scheme for individual enterprises in accordance with the Swedish ‘expansion funds’ scheme.’» Proposal No. 59 sounds: ‘The government is asked, at the latest in the context of the 2012 government budget, to provide a tax credit scheme for energy efficiency improvement measures in private buildings of up to SEK 50000.’;» [[material and labour costs]] Proposal No. 60 sounds: ‘The Decision of the EEA Joint Committee of 25 November 2010 on the CO2 tax in the petroleum industry on the continental shelf is hereby amended as follows: from 1 July 2011, Act No 21 December 1990 provides that: 72 on the levying of CO2 emissions in petroleum activities on the continental shelf is paid to the treasury at the following rates: (a) for gas 80 ores per standard cubic metre (b) for oil or condensate 80 ores per litre.» Proposal No. 61 sounds: «The government asks the government to increase the duty-free import limit of goods from abroad to 500 kroner, and to establish a mechanism that regularly adjusts the amount with regard to price growth.» Proposal No. 62 sounds: ‘The Decision of the Storting on excise duties applicable to the State Treasury for the 2011 Budgetary Mine concerning the levy on alcohol is amended as follows: [[chapter. 5526 heading 70]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e11993	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 45-54, from the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 45 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2011 shall be amended as follows: 1H.M. The King and H.M.The Queen51 40016000 from 500 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 441 item 1, increased by 54 697 000 from NOK 9 298 192 000 to NOK 9 352 889 00021Special operating expenditure, increased by 9 100 000 from NOK 164 389 000 to NOK 173 489 000441Oslo police district1Operating expenditure, can be used under the heading. 440 entry 1, decreased by 19 500 000from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 500000 from NOK 500000 from NOK 568 50 000 from NOK 657 50 000 from NOK 657 402 000 from NOK 669 402 000 from NOK 45 000 from from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 402 000 from NOK 402 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 309 to NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 from NOK 309 309 000 from NOK 309 from NOK 309 from NOK 309 to NOK 309 from NOK 309 from NOK 309 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 from NOK 309 from NOK 309 from NOK 309 to NOK 30 from NOK 30 from NOK 309 to 30 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 to 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 30 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 from NOK 1000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 to 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 from NOK from NOK 309 to 309 000 from NOK 309 to 309 from NOK 309 to 309 from NOK 309 to 309 000 from NOK from NOK from 309 to 309 to 309 to 309 to [[New]] 821 Item 60, increased by 1,836,000 from NOK 6 330000 to NOK 8 166 00075Travel costs for refugees to and from abroad, can be transferred, increased by 1,825000 from NOK 13 137 000 to NOK 14 962 000551Regional development and innovation60Additions to county councils for regional development, reduced by 120 500 000 from NOK 1 552 350 000 to NOK 1 431 850 000552National cooperation for regional development21Knowledge development, information, etc., can be transferred, increased by 3 000 000 from NOK 13 000 to NOK 16 000 00072National measures for regional development, can be transferred, reduced by 3 000 000 000 from NOK 459 750000 to NOK 456 750 000571Room grants to municipalities60Population grants, increased by 711 500 000 from NOK 94 929 757 000 to NOK 95 641 257 00064Sexus grants, can be used under Chapter. 572 entry 64, reduced by 30 000 000 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 097 000 from €2 067 000 572 from €20 000 from €30 000 from €24 000 from €25 934 249 000 to €25 958 249 000 580 000 from €70 000 from €378 500 000 from €4 148 500000 from €4 770 000 from €3 770 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €29 30 30 000 from €93 000 from €30 000 from €30 30 30 000 from €30 30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30, from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 30 30 000 from €30 000 from €30 30 000 from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30 30 30 000 from €30, from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30, from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 000 from €30 to NOK from €30 to €30, from €30 000 from €30, from €30, from €30, from NOK from €30 to €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30 to NOK from NOK from €30, from €30 from €30, from €30 from €30 to €30 to €30, from €30 from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30, from €30 available from €30 available from €30 available from €30 to €30 to € 30 000 from €30, from € 30 000 from €30 from € 30 000 from € 30 000 from €30 from €30 from €30 from NOK from NOK from €30 from €30 from €30 from €30, from €30 from €30, from €30 from €30 from € worth from €30, from € worth from €30 from NOK from NOK from NOK from NOK from € [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 1760, entry 45, can be transferred, reduced by 94 408 000from kr 8 131 884 000from kr 8 037 476 00048jointly funded works may be transferred, reduced by 100 000 from kr 134 000 to kr 34 000 000from kr 491 502 000from kr 485 215 000from kr 410 000from kr 8 037 477 00048 from kr 971 22 0001791 from kr 147 000 from kr 6 287 000from kr 491 502 000 from kr 491 502 000 from kr 485 215 000 from kr 484 000 from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr 64 048 000 from kr from kr 1 58 000 from kr from kr from kr 1 451 51 000 from kr from kr 491 502 000 from kr from kr from kr 49 000 k from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from k from kr from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] from the State Financial Fund, reduced by 27 000 000 000 from NOK 300 000 from NOK 8 30 000 from NOK 8 30 000 from NOK 8 30 000 from the State Pension Fund80 Interests, reduced by 96 000 from NOK 1 229 000 from NOK 8 50 000 from NOK 1 133 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 500 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from EUR from EUR from EUR from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from EUR from NOK 1000 from NOK 1000 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR 30 to EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR 30 to EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from Proposal No. 46 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that smaller religious and life views are covered by the tax-deduction scheme for gifts to non-governmental organisations.’;» Proposal No. 47 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to adopt an amending regulation to Regulation No. 19 November 1999 1158 for filling in and finishing, etc. of the Tax Act of 26 March 1999 No 14, including any clarification of what is considered as a zero-emission vehicle.’;» Proposal No. 48 sounds: ‘The size is in line with the government’s proposal for tax decisions for the 2011 income year, Chapter 6, as amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e21496	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 39–44, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 39 sounds: ‘The government asks the Government to strengthen the Tax Find Scheme by removing the maximum hourly rate of 500 kroner, strengthening the Tax Find Scheme by removing the rule that, in the case of staff and indirect costs, the number of hours for its own employees is limited to a maximum of 1850 hours per year.’; Proposal No. 40 sounds: «The government is asked to raise the wage and salary obligation limit of non-governmental organisations to NOK 10 000 per year. employed.’ Proposal No. 41 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2011 the Decision of the EEA Joint Committee of 25 November 2010 on environmental taxes on mineral products, etc. is amended as follows: A. CO2 tax on mineral products for the 2011 budget:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e21603	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 32 to 38, from the right. Proposal No. 32 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2011 shall be amended as follows: 1H.M. The King and H.M. The Queen51 400 000 spent, 000 000 spent, 300000 spent, 300000 spent, 300000 spent, 6 190 00061Highlight1Operating costs, increased by 1 884 000 spent, 600 spent, 75 018 000 spent, increased by 5 000 000 spent, from NOK 7 670 0001000 spent, transferred, reduced by 21 100 000 from kr 2 618 500 000 to kr 2 597 400 000151aided, channelled to Asia78Regional allocation can be transferred to Asia, channelled, channelled to EUR 7 6 7 670 000 000 from kr 370 000 000 to kr 274 000 000152 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 441 item 1, increased by 129 697 000 from NOK 9 298 192 000 to NOK 9 427 889 00021.Special operating expenditure, increased by 4 100 000 from NOK 164 389 000 to NOK 168 489 000441Oslo police district1Operating expenditure, can be used under the heading. 440 entry 1, increased by 5 500 000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 300000 from NOK 500000 from NOK 500000 from NOK 568 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 657 652 000 from NOK 669 402 000 from EUR 454 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 309 from NOK 309 from NOK 309 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 from NOK 1000 from NOK 309 from NOK from NOK from NOK 30 from NOK from NOK 30 from NOK 1000 from NOK 30 from NOK 30 from NOK from NOK from NOK from NOK from NOK from NOK from NOK 309 to NOK from NOK from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 to NOK 309 to NOK 309 to NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 1000 from NOK from NOK 309 000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 000 from NOK NOK 309 000 from NOK 1000 from NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK from NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK NOK 309 000 from NOK 1000 from NOK 309 from NOK from NOK from NOK from NOK NOK 309 from NOK 309 from NOK from NOK from NOK 309 000 from NOK 309 from NOK from NOK from NOK from NOK from NOK from NOK from NOK 309 from NOK from NOK from NOK from NOK [[New]] [[New]] 821 entry 60, increased by 1 825 000from €800, 000 from €249, 000 from €249, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €13, 000 from €13, 000 from €13, 000 to €16, 000 from €16, 000 from €16, 000 from €29,50, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, €29, 000 from €249, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, €29, 000 from €29,349, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, 000 from €29, €29, €29,9,930, 000 from €29,930,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9,9 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 1760, entry 45, can be transferred, reduced by 94 408 000from kr 8 131 884 000from kr 8 037 476 00048Co-financed works may be transferred, reduced by 100 000 from kr 134 000 from kr 34 000 000 to kr 491 502 000 from kr 600 000 from kr 418 000 from kr 410 000 from kr 8 037 417 00048Co-financed works may be transferred, reduced by 100 000 from kr 134 000 from kr 34 000 000 to kr 491 502 000 from kr 491 502 000 from kr 600 000 from kr 485 215 0001792Norse strengths from kr 977 565 000 from kr from kr 264 48 000 from kr from kr 1 451 51 000 from kr from kr from kr 6 287 000 from kr from kr 491 502 000 from kr from kr from kr from kr 2 000 from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from k from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from kr from k from kr from kr from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k from k [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] from the State Financial Fund, reduced by 27 000 000 000 000 from EUR 300 000 from EUR 15 000 000 from EUR 15 000 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 10 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 40 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 15 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 50 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR to 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR 30 000 from EUR from EUR from EUR 30 000 from EUR from EUR from EUR 30 30 000 from EUR 30 30 30 000 from EUR from EUR 30 30 30 000 from EUR from EUR to EUR 30 30 30 30 30 30 to 30 30 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from EUR from 30 from 30 from 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 from 30 from 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 from 30 from 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 from 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 from 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 from 30 from 30 to 30 to 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 000 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 to 30 from 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 to 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from 30 from30 Proposal No. 33 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2011, the Decision of the Storting on the CO2 tax on mineral products of 25 November 2010 is amended as follows: point 1 of the second paragraph. 2 and the second paragraph of Section 1 are deleted. The third subparagraph shall become the second subparagraph in force.’; Proposal No. 34 sounds: ‘In the Storting Decision of 25 November 2010 on the levying of non-alcoholic beverages, etc. in the case of the 2011 budgetary minute, the following shall be amended:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e30021	There is a vote on proposal No. 31 from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘As from 1 July 2011, the Decision of the Stortinge Decision of 25 November 2010 on the user charge for automotive diesel for the 2011 budget mine is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e30060	There is a vote on proposal No. 30, from the Right Party and the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘As from 1 July 2011, Decision of the Stortinge on the base charge for mineral oil, etc., is amended as follows: for the 2011 budget minute:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e30080	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 14–29, from the Progress Party. Proposal No. 14 sounds: ‘The State budget for 2011 shall be amended as follows: 1H.M. The King and H.M.The Queen51 40016000 from 500 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] 441 item 1, increased by 226 439 000 from NOK 9 298 192 000 to NOK 9 524 631 00021.Special operating expenditure, increased by 9 100 000 from NOK 164 389 000 to NOK 173 489 000441Oslo police district1Operating expenditure, can be used under the heading. 440 entry 1, increased by30 500 000from €93 8 000 000from €29 8 000 from €29 8 000 from €29 4 000 from €3 000 from €13 4 000 from €13 4 000 from €13 4 000 from €13 4 000 from €30 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 7 7 7 7 7 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 7 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 3 33 [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] [[New]] from the State Financial Fund, reduced by 27 000 000 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 53 000 from NOK 53 000 from NOK 146 500 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 30 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK from NOK 50 000 from NOK 500 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 30 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 from NOK 50 000 from NOK 000 from EUR from NOK 30 000 from NOK 000 from NOK 000 from NOK 000 from NOK 50 from NOK 30 000 from NOK 30 000 from NOK from NOK from NOK from NOK from NOK from NOK from NOK 30 000 from NOK Proposal No. 15 sounds: ‘The Decision of the Storting on excise duties applicable to the State Treasury for the 2011 Budgetary Mine concerning the levy on alcohol is amended as follows: [[chapter. 5526 heading 70]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e38260	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11-13, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. Proposal No. 11 sounds: ‘From 1 July 2011, the Decision of the Stortinge Decision of 25 November 2010 on the levying of tobacco products, etc. is amended as follows: for the 2011 budget minute:
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e38353	I voted wrong!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e38359	The representative of Ms Aasen will change his vote in the Minutes. Then the secretary suggests that we take a new vote. He suggests that there may be more people who have been out cycling. The proposals Nos shall be re-examined. 11-13.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e38375	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 9 and 10, from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party. Proposal No. 9 sounds: ‘The government is asking for an increase in the percentage of the State incentive for the construction of nursing homes and nursing homes to 50 pst. in relation to the submission of the 2012 State budget.’;» Proposal No. 10 sounds: ‘The government is asking for proposals on tax incentives for energy efficiency measures in housing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e38397	There is a vote on proposal No. 8, from the Party of Advancement, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to come back to Stortinget with a case to extend the study aid to 11 months.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e38412	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–7, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking for the transitional rule for pensioners to apply to all retirement pensioners, including those who did not have a tax limit in 2010, with effect from 1 January 2011.’ Proposal No. 2 sounds: «The government is asked to establish a system that indexes the amounts for, respectively. self-executed and purchased R & D in the Tax Fund scheme each year.’;» Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The government asks the government to evaluate how the Tax Fund Scheme can be set up in order to contribute better to research and development also for larger enterprises.’ Proposal No. 4 sounds: ‘The Government requests the imposition of zero duty on products from Vietnam, Pakistan and Nigeria from 1 July 2011.’ Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The government is asked to take initiatives towards the United Kingdom in order to change the practice of so-called ‘overseas fairs’ for Norwegian students studying in the United Kingdom. ‘... Proposal No. 6 sounds: ‘The size asks the government in the government budget for 2012 to propose a model that provides predictability in the calculation of pension costs in defined benefit schemes activities’.» Proposal No. 7 sounds: ‘The government is asked, in the context of the 2012 State Budget, to provide a review of the State’s late fees and to submit proposals to ensure a non-discriminatory treatment of late payment between private and public creditors.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e38460	Now, when we're going to vote on the motion for a resolution of the vote, the party groups are set to refrain from following up their primary positions, so that we don't have a split and difficult voting. It is under the clear condition that it is not used against them on a later occasion. We then vote collectively on the proposal for a resolution of the resolution, and it extends from page 388 to page 415.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47676	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No I, by Mrs Leirstein, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, 2, from Hans Olav Syversen on behalf of the Christian People's Party Proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party, reads: ‘The government is asking for proposals to introduce tax deductions for cleaning, care, crafts and other domestic service activities, a ROS and ROT deduction, to combat black work and to facilitate increased employment.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47708	Proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party, addressed to voting. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking the government to investigate and propose tax deductions for domestic cleaning and care services, for example equivalent to the Swedish RUT deduction.’ The President assumes that the Progress Party will subsidiaryly support the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47731	During the debate, Mr Sanner put forward a proposal, proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a new ‘green tax Commission’ to be brought down as soon as possible to investigate a green tax reform that can come into force from 2016.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47754	The following cases, starting with case No. 6 even case No. 18, is all the second time dealing with law decisions. The President proposes that we treat them together, and expects to have the House's agreement to it. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Voting in Case No 6–18
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47762	There are no comments on any of the cases. The law of the Grand Duchy has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47770	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The government asks the government to ensure that an agreement between health companies and municipalities on the offer to drug addicts ensures that an after-care offer has been developed from the first day.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47789	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The government is asked to start work on a regulation that clarifies the content of municipal mental health work. It is assumed that, inter alia, psychological services are prescribed as a necessary part of multi-disciplinary health and care services and that a plan is drawn up to make this competence available in all the municipalities of the country.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47808	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the introduction of staffing standards for the medical coverage of hospitals from 2012.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47827	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The government is asked to present its own case in which the Competitiveness Pact 2015 is amended and strengthened in order to address the challenges posed by the interaction reform.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47846	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The government is asked to facilitate different pilot schemes between cooperating municipalities and healthcare companies in order to test different cooperation schemes, task transfer, responsibilities and funding. It is assumed that provision is made to facilitate follow-up research on the pilot schemes.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47866	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the establishment of a scheme of senior agents.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47885	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The government is asked by the government to regulate that the Health Authority in the county forwards notification to the National Health Care Knowledge Centre of the conditions that have caused or could have led to injury to patients.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47904	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The government is asked to extend the requirement for police attestations to include persons working with older people in the care sector, on the basis of a model from the requirement for a certificate of good conduct for persons working in professions providing services to children and mentally retarded persons.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47923	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement and the Christian People's Party tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The government is asked by the Swedish Government to regulate, through the regulation of Section 16 of the Health Care Act, that health professionals can report directly to the National Health Care Knowledge Centre.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47942	There is a vote on proposals made at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The Government is asking the Government to further clarify the economic and administrative consequences and to return quickly to Stortinget with a proposal for the rights-attachment of user-led personal assistance for users with high needs within the current financial framework.’ The Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party are behind the proposal. The Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have warned that they support the proposal subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47961	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party tabled at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The government is asked to provide an assessment of the possibilities for rehabilitating abroad and the funding that can be used.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47980	There is a vote on proposals from the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left made at the meeting of the European Parliament on 14 June 2011: «The government asks the government to carry out a consultation on the amendment of the tax law § 16-22 on the deduction of foreign taxes. The law is being re-encouraged in the 2012 government budget if the government chooses to stick to the law change after the consultation.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e47999	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Right at the Stortingets meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget in an appropriate manner, proposing how to introduce a notification system whereby the applicant is notified of who is applying for his name in the tax lists through the use of MinID.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e48018	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Right at the Stortingets meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The government asks it to limit public access to the tax lists through the Tax Directorate’s websites to the current three weeks’.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e48037	There is a vote on proposals made by the Christian People's Party at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The government is asking the government to ensure that the press is able to identify the sex of taxpayers and the date of birth in the tax registers.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e48056	There is a vote on proposals made by the Christian People's Party at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The government asks the government to enable freelance journalists to have the same access to the tax lists as permanent journalists.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e48076	There is a vote on the proposals made by the Right at the Stortingets meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The size asks the government in regulation to determine the distribution of profits between bingo purposes and the key to a fixed percentage, so that the proportion of the key transmitted does not exceed 15 pst.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e48095	There is a vote on proposals made by the Christian People's Party at the Stortinget meeting on 14 June 2011: ‘The Government is asking the Government to resume negotiations with ESA on requirements for the organisation and management of petroleum activities on Norwegian base and the use of bases, etc. by rightholders.’
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e48114	There is a vote on the proposal contained in document 8:163 S for 2010-2011, from pages 1 to 11 of the distributed document. The President makes it clear that under point 4, the points shall be 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to implement the following measures in the management of gaupe, yerv, wolf and bear: Norwegian wild game management shall take place within the framework of the provisions of the Nature Diversity Act and its treatment by the Storting, the Berne Convention and the two-part objective following the 2004 Robbery Agreement, and the subsequent follow-up. All predator management shall be based on scientific and experience-based knowledge. Furthermore, emphasis shall be placed on regional governance, respect for ownership and the quality of life of individuals and communities. Norway has an obligation under the Berne Convention to ensure the survival of all the major predatory species in Norwegian nature. Several of our large predators are part of major Scandinavian tribes; the conciliators see it as natural to cooperate with our neighbouring countries on the management of relevant predators, which is also in line with the Berne Convention's formulations on international cooperation. Animals on the pasture have many positive qualities and it is important to ensure the viability of farming activities in areas of wild game. The parties to the settlement refer to the two-part objective of the 2004 paper game settlement, and that the challenge lies in securing both parts without any greater conflicts between them than is necessary. The objective is to strengthen the regional authority in the management of wild game. The management of predators must be based on a policy that seeks to ensure the survival of all the major predatory species in Norwegian nature, must be combined with an administration which, in total, helps to mitigate conflicts and counter insecurity within the two-part objective. 1st@item: inlistbox Stock monitoring and registration1.1 Conflicts in the reporting and registration of predatory game and damage caused by predatory game must be reduced. This requires strengthening local competence in stock monitoring and record-keeping. All observations which can be verified and which are observationally interesting are followed up quickly. In so far as is appropriate, the deterrent management shall make use of new communication technologies in contact with the public in the stock monitoring and registration work. 1.2 The staff of the national surveillance programme for predatory game shall be responsible for the ongoing evaluation of the best monitoring methodology. Rovdata is the secretariat of the Board of Directors. 1.3 Priority shall be given to the training of local predatory game contacts and emphasis shall be placed on the strong representation of representatives from the reindeer and sheep industries among the local predatory game contacts. 1.4 Administrative competence of predators shall be strengthened and the capacity of the Secretariat for the Explosives should be increased. 1.5 The municipalities of predatory game areas are encouraged to have competence in predatory issues. The State shall contribute to training to ensure this. 1.6 Furthermore, grazing and other local populations should be more actively involved in the stock records of predatory game, and such opportunities should be facilitated to a greater extent through, inter alia, the collection of DNA material. [[SNO]] 1.7 Robbery data and the State's nature oversight must be strengthened. Robust data shall have the overall responsibility for the operation of the surveillance programme for predatory game and assembly, quality assurance and reporting at national level, as well as reporting distance between stock target and actual target achievement. 1.8 The King’s ear must be part of the surveillance programme in line with the other predatory game species and the screening of the royal eagle stock must be completed as soon as possible. It is important to reduce the uncertainty associated with the number of nesting pairs of king eagles and the damage caused by the king eagle on domestic animals and domestic animals. 2nd@item: inlistbox Conflict mitigation and prevention2.1.1 Regional predators are responsible for the management of predatory game within their region. Subjects shall have the power to establish their own management plan, to allocate funds to prevent and mitigate conflicts. The authorities shall have the power to set allowances for licensing, quota hunting and contingent stocking claims for stocks where the regional stocking target has been reached. Even in cases where stock targets have not been achieved, the views of predatory birds shall be given considerable importance in the decision of the Ministry of the Environment in the case. 2.1.2 The majority of the population in 2004 assumed that regional predators were to take the annual quota hunting, licensing and indemnification decisions in order to achieve the national targets set for the different species. Measurements which also established a balanced management exercise, taking into account the interests of the pasturage within the framework of the international commitments of Norway. The principle that appeals against decisions taken by regional predators should be decided by an overall political body, i.e. The Ministry of Environmental Protection was an important prerequisite for achieving a more conflict-reducing management of the species. 2.1.3 The settlement partners note that we have now reached the stock targets for wolves, yorks and gloats, and that, in line with the position of the majority in 2004, the management of these species lies with regional predators. The settlement partners agree on regional management and that decisions should be taken at first instance by regional predators. The settlement partners agree that the stock target of the breeding bear is 13. Where the stock target has not been reached, the rate of build-up shall take into account the necessary time for adaptations for grazing users and communities in general. Roofers shall have authority when the regional stock targets are reached. However, even if the national stock targets are not met, the management of the bear is transferred to the regional predators once 10 young people have been reached, unless there are specific reasons for otherwise. It is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment to follow up on the fact that decisions taken by pollinators are within our international commitments. The Ministry of the Environment shall provide guidance to regional wild game subjects where the stock targets have not been met. Complaint decisions taken by regional wild game subjects shall be taken by the Ministry of the Environment. 2.1.4 There must be a rapid treatment of claims for injury during the grazing season. In the case of applications and complaints relating to the collection of licences, the hunting of quotas and damages outside the grazing season, the management shall, as far as possible, carry out such rapid processing as to ensure that the case does not lose time. 2.1.5 The resolution partners ask the government to instruct the environmental management to draw up concrete deadlines for replying to enquiries and complaints related to damage and the government is asked to return to Stortinget. 2.1.6 Management of gupe and yurt 2.1.7 The stock targets for yurt and gupe are 39 and 65 annual juveniles, respectively, following the 2004 raffle agreement. The number of juveniles of yews and yawns has been significantly higher than the target population in recent years. The game management shall be carried out in such a way as to keep the number of juveniles as close as possible to the stock target and the management shall take the necessary measures in line with the text below. 2.1.8 The Gaupe and Yew authorities' authorities are based on the average of documented data on juveniles over the last three years from the National Monitoring Programme for Robbery. 2.1.9 The settlement partners agree that the regional management and stocking targets of wild game should be evaluated within five years. 2.2 Detachment of wild game 2.2.1 It is assumed that municipalities establish well-schooled, local precipitation teams, where appropriate, and their training should be strengthened. Course offers shall be established and priority shall be given to the regular training of municipal/intercommunal indemnification teams with the aim of increasing the effectiveness of the indemnification of predatory game in the event of acute damage. 2.2.2 Activities shall be actively undertaken with regard to licensing and a better course offer shall be established with a view to improving the effectiveness of licensing. Such measures should be implemented in close cooperation with non-governmental organisations. 2.2.3 Public financial liability for damages must be reinforced and clarified. Participants in municipal killings shall receive financial compensation from the first day as of today. 2.2.4 In cases where licensing fails to provide satisfactory clearance, the environmental management shall, as far as possible, ensure that the remaining quota is taken out in the areas granted for the tariff quota. Withdrawals in what are defined as priority pastures in each region by the predatory wildlife denominators are prioritised. 2.2.5 The Directorate for Nature Management has the power to take decisions on how and how exceptional withdrawals are to be initiated in order to obtain as far as possible the remaining tariff quota. This shall take place after discussion with the birds of prey. Roofers should also be able to take the initiative themselves in such a discussion. 2.2.6 Measures must be taken, including killing, against animals with abnormal/social behaviour, to prevent damage or to protect health and safety interests. 2.2.7 It is assumed that predator management is carried out in such a way as to avoid the need for grazing under the Animal Welfare Act in priority grazing areas. By decision on grazing restrictions due to predatory game, the animal owner shall be entitled to full financial compensation in accordance with detailed rules. The compensation shall be granted from day one. 2.2.8 The necessary measures must be taken both in the management of predatory animals and in the reindeer management with a view to ensuring the situation of southern Sami domestic reindeer operations. Gaupe 2.2.9 Quota hunting is an effective tool for the regulation of globular populations, and this should be the main instrument in the future. Jerv 2.2.10 In the case of yorks, it is found that today's licensing agreement does not function properly. The aim shall continue to be to ensure that licensing becomes the main instrument in stock management of youw, so that exceptional take-offs of breeding sites over time can be reduced to a minimum. 2.2.11 As far as possible, withdrawals from your property carried out by the environmental management shall be carried out during the licensing period but shall nevertheless be carried out in a cost-effective manner. Bear 2.2.12 In the case of bear, it is found that licensing in several of the administrative regions does not function satisfactorily at present. It shall continue to be the objective of licensing as the principal instrument in the stock management of the bear. 2.2.13 Action is to be taken with regard to the licensing of the bear and a good course offer is to be established with a view to improving the effectiveness of the licensing procedure. Training of hunters involved in bear licensing is also considered very important in order to reduce the risk of dangerous situations occurring between bears and hunters. 2.2.14 It is assumed that the achievement of the stocking level of bear will not require land beyond the scope of today's breeding areas. Increasing the density of bears will reinforce the need for agricultural conversion in these areas. The necessary measures shall be taken to implement this. The level of appropriations shall be determined in each year's budget. 2.2.15 The period of licensing of bears is extended in such a way that the start of the breeding period is changed to 21 August and thus coordinated with the start of hunting for bears in Sweden. This will give you a period before the elk where the bear can be hunted more specifically. It will also allow the licensing of bears to be combined with reindeer hunting in the areas where this is the case. 2.2.16 Norway is currently in the periphery of the Scandinavian bear tribe, so we have a gender bias in the Norwegian bear tribe with considerably more male bears than in the inner. Migrant male bears are responsible for a large proportion of the bear’s damage to grazing animals. It is important to increase predictability of the grazing industry. 2.2.17 In order to increase predictability in the grazing industry, non-priority breeding areas for bears shall be granted increased access to the licensing of male bears in order to reduce the presence of male bears in priority grazing areas. 2.2.18 Extra-ordinary withdrawals after the end of the bear's period of limitation shall be permitted in individual cases where a concrete damage potential is likely to occur in domestic animals or domestic animals. 2.2.19 It is a common objective that the loss figures for the grazing industry should be reduced. The zoning must be clearly managed. In priority grazing areas, the extraction of animals causing grazing animals is to be carried out rapidly, and in such areas environmental management must contribute more than currently to the efficiency of such harvesting, irrespective of whether the stock target has been reached. In priority tillage areas, sheep production and other off-farm production shall be adapted by preventive measures and conversion, based on the presence of predatory game in the grazing area. There shall be no predators representing a potential for damage in priority grazing areas for domestic animals and calving areas for domestic animals. 2.2.20 Snowmobiles may be used for trapping. Harm traps should not be unduly impeded by geographical hunting areas and by the fact that the time frame is not set for snow. 2.2.11 The decision to extract an animal shall assess the feasibility of moving if the individual is particularly valuable. 2.3 Replacement schemes2.3.1 Reference is made to the reduced sample sizes which are subject to the compensation schemes for losses of domestic animals and domestic animals. [[number of chicks]] After the selections have submitted their settings, the government will follow them up to the Storting in an appropriate manner. The Government Parties will discuss changes and seek agreement with the settlement parties on a new and more conflict-reducing compensation system before submitting proposals to the Stortinget. 2.4 Emergency workers2.4.1 Emergency workers regulations are amended so that predators can be killed in order to protect dogs from direct attacks on predators. The conciliators shall be included on advice prior to the promotion of the bill for Stortinget. 2.5 Information 2.5.1 It is important that information on the behaviour of predators and how to deal with them is well organised and presented to the target groups over several years in the context. On this basis, a review of the stock target for wolves shall be carried out. 4.2 We want an agreement with Sweden and until that is achieved, the current stock targets are fixed. Negotiations with Sweden will begin immediately after Sweden has completed its investigation. The settlement partners agree that final stock targets for wolves should be taken into account when an agreement with Sweden is in place by 2013. The size must be kept informed of the negotiations. This is sought to be put in place by 2013. 4.3 If agreement with Sweden is not reached, the parties shall re-examine stock targets for the wolf. 4.4 A sample is produced to evaluate the wolf zone.»
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e48459	President!
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e48464	The floor will be given to the representative of Hofstad Helleland.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e48467	On the right, I presented two proposals at the beginning of the meeting today that I cannot see are referred to. That might be a good reason why they're not, but I'd like an answer as to why I don't see them in the minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-06-17.ana.ud1399e48472	They will be referred to in the first meeting of the autumn. There is probably no committee work in the matter during the summer, but they are not messed up – at least not so far. We're going to make sure they're properly referred, but it's good that it was mentioned. Now we're going to end the spring session for this year, and we've been dealing with a lot of big issues. We have jointly managed the aftermath of the financial crisis this year as well. Many have said from this pulpit that Norway is a good country to live in. I think it's pronounced by all the parties in the hall – often followed by a 'but'. We have now dealt with major issues at the very end, not least major health issues, which will have a major impact on the development of our country in the future. We are dealing with the last part of the major complex of pension reform, in that the disability pension scheme is to be discussed until the autumn. Not least, during the last two days, or more precisely, tonight and today, we've dealt with major issues financially, like the purchase of fighter planes, where we're talking about a magnitude of about 4 billion. kr. Another major issue that ended this session was the agreement on predatory game policy, which does not have the same size economically, but I am convinced that this matter will be debated more during the first weekend than the large investments we made last night. I think the issues are a good example of the important work that Stortinget has done in the large-scale session we are now going out of. I don't at all think that the agreement that happened in connection with the last case, and that form of work, serves the Stortinget to the credit. I am glad that the matter ended this year's session, where one shows that on major national issues it is possible to find solutions across the established blocks. Now when we go to the summer vacation, you have, like me, read in newspapers and other places that we are now going out for 15 weeks' vacation. You know as well as I do that the majority of the raisers are going to have problems getting three weeks' continuous vacation. I've been looking for fun because of what's going to happen now the first weeks of international meetings, where representatives of the Stortinge attend, and that's a lot. I've looked at what's going on, and that's now approved by committee missions before we get back together at the end of September, and there's a lot of them. I know that many have said yes to many county assignments, many have probably already booked the day tomorrow and the first weekend. I know that a lot of people are going on a lot of party missions, and we're all going to make a contribution to the local election campaign we're going into towards the autumn elections. So the myth of the long leisure time is unearthed, but the holiday representatives are now going to, and get the opportunity to take, it's very well deserved. I want all representatives to have a really good holiday and a good working period until we meet again in plenary at the end of September and the beginning of October. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled. [[The representatives applauded]]
