ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e24	The representative Lise Christoffersen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e41	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and 5 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Working Party 45 minutes, the Advance Party 30 minutes, the Right 20 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each batch and up to five lines with replies from the member of the government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e50	The Committee feels that there is a repetition of each budgetary procedure. But despite that, I'll be allowed to praise the committee. Although I have not been involved in the whole process this fall, I have at least recorded that the committee has been just as effective and has led a good and proper progress in getting to a position. I don't want to go into the priorities and comments of the other parties, as the committee's chairman, but I would nevertheless say that there is some kind of progress towards consensus on the challenges you see in the field. But then, of course, someone is a little more impatient than others, someone thinks you should spend some more resources, and there's the Progress Party. We register again that we have had a deboarding within the police. In fact, 18 police districts have a real downfall. I do not think the government has taken that into account in its budgets, for 2012 is likely to be a new year of focus and debate on reducing visibility, presence and crime prevention. It's very unfortunate from the situation we're actually in, where you get the insight that safety and preparedness in Norway are not of the quality that it should have been. This in turn leads to that we do not create security, but perhaps contribute to establishing insecurity. Is there something we need now, after this year, it's to the best of our ability to create an image of security. Looking forward to the goals we've set across the board, the police against 2020, where we all agree that we should have a police coverage of two per 1,000, it's almost sad to see things going in the wrong direction. We were on our way up, we were at 1.8 per 1,000, now we're at less than 1.6 per 1,000. There's a lot of factors that play in there, I'm aware of that. In particular, there's an area that we haven't covered well enough, and that's population growth. Now it is that the Statistical Yearbook actually no longer sees it as a population increase, but that we might experience a population explosion up to 2025. Then I believe that even if a framework has been established to achieve the target of two per 1,000, we can't do that. Not even by raising the police high school admission to 720, we can do it. I'm going to come back to that a little bit, because it's not just about getting more hands at work in the police, it's about a lot of other things, too. That is why the Progress Party is once again promoting a proposal, proposal No. 4, that we should probably say in the run-up to 2020 that we guarantee in advance a job for everyone who leaves the Police College and pass the necessary tests and exams. Then I'll come back to the second. The progress point is adding 470 million. kr extra in its alternative budget. Large parts of this are for investment, 190 million. kr of this is for investment. One of the factors that have caused us to have a downturn in the police force is that large parts of the investment needed by the police must be taken off the same operating budgets. We've experienced that for two or three years in a row. In particular, ICT bets are made. Therefore, by 2020, there should also be a separate investment budget for the police outside the ordinary operating budgets to ensure that we get the necessary recruitment. In addition, we expect a result reform next year. I think it'll be very important. Because I'm also – and I've never hidden it on – sure it's not just about giving more money to the police to hire more people. It's also about structure. I think this year has taught us that the structure of the police is not good enough. With 27 police districts, with 360 officers' offices and county districts, with the Police Directorate, Kripos, Økokrim, PST – I think, with all due respect, that there are many annual works here to pick up from another type of organization, which can free hands that can be made visible, and presence for the population. The same thing happens when we go to the criminal services, where it works hard every day, but unfortunately you have an exploitation that is almost maximum all the time, and where the government actually has a real downturn, when you should have had an upturn, both in terms of training and employment, and in terms of securing those who are employed. I have experienced that now that the settlement queues again are soon at the same level as in 2005, you see some tragedies. People who have been sentenced stand there waiting and are almost in prison in their own home, because you can't get a job, you can't take care of the family. You are waiting to get this letter in the mailbox to get the zone completed. That picture hasn't come out well enough. So once again, we have a huge reward queue, despite the fact that this government has actually given a penalty discount and opened up a larger proportion of free settlement. The Progress Party significantly increases the appropriations in the field of criminal justice. We also see that the courts are struggling right away. For several years, the courts have done a considerable job to reduce payments, to stick to deadlines, and then we register that the government actually cuts the appropriations to the courts. If I'm allowed to say that -- this seems to be an evil circle that doesn't look like the government's getting out of it. The situation within this field is actually at the exact same level today as it was six years ago – unfortunately. That is why, perhaps now that we have the result reform, and when we are going to deal with the revised budget next year, we should go further into the issues together to make sure that we get this sector up once and for all to go, to form an image of security. Finally, I would like to promote the proposals on which the Progress Party is alone, and the proposals on which we agree with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e76	The representative Per Sandberg then addressed the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e81	We got first and foremost focused on what the Progress Party wanted to spend more money on. Some would use more resources, said the representative Sandberg. What Sandberg said little about, but which is definitely one side of this case, is that they do big, dramatic cuts in child protection measures for lone minors and asylum seekers. 225 million. IMDI and UNE shall receive less. That's 100 million. kr less for training in Norwegian and social sciences, and there is 100 million. kr less for investment grants in municipalities. I could have done this list very long. This does not contribute to criminal prevention, nor does it contribute to speeding up voluntary or forced deployment. Can Sandberg explain this paradox?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e90	I am surprised that the representative points to all these areas of asylum and refugee policy, including: as regards young asylum seekers, and directly links it to the fight against crime. It surprises me that it comes from the Workers' Party. But the answer from the Progress Party is quite simple. With our policies, we see that the number of people will be reduced and that the number of institutions will be reduced. That is why we are also granting less money.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e95	The representative Sandberg is quoted in the Evening Post on 22 November. I quote: ‘The police have been budget winners many times in the last decades.’ The representative, Sandberg, is a good politician. He knows what he's saying, and I expect him to be behind the quote. Then my question, in the light of this quote, will be: How does his persistent criticism against the government that it does not bet on the police – not least in his last post, today’s posts – lie in hand?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e105	It is quite right that the police have been budget winnings in dollars and cents, but this government has also imposed so many tasks on the police, which have eaten up these resources at such a rate that we now see a reduction in the operating budgets. Thus, at the same time as increasing appropriations, more than 100 new tasks have been assigned to the police – and this has been forgotten in all contexts. Obviously, it does something about the situation in the police. So now this government has used the large budget of 1.4 billion. kr, which you have put on several times. At the same time, I must be allowed to say that my article was not just about increased resources. I also concluded by saying that next year we are going to have the result reform. I hope that the Storting then dares to enter into the debate on structural changes. I think it's a lot of years to pick up within the sector in that area, but in the short term it's about employing enough people. That is why we must have a guarantee for the police students.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e112	The party of progress and we share the perception that there is a demand for increased numbers of foreign prisoners in Norwegian prisons. That's why we have a lot of things to do. entered into the settlement transfer agreements and speeded up deployment of foreign criminals. The entire committee agrees that the government will try out a separate prison unit for foreign criminals. The Progress Party's comments state that one must have a lower standard for it to seem terrifying. I would like to ask: how bad conditions do you think it should be in order to be sufficiently deterrent to foreigners, and how my Advance Party agrees with the international commitments Norway has in spite of everything, not to discriminate against them for example. ethnic background, etc.? So in the end, with the police students, is it that they realize that the guarantee applies to the provision of work throughout the country, that students must be able to move anywhere, and that they must also accept the Vicariat and temporary positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e121	Until then, of course, this applies to the whole country. I don't see any more use of vicariates and redemption. Here we need to talk about setting up permanent posts. That's what the problem is now, that you go to the vicaria and you're not sure if you're safe to work in the police in the future. Therefore, unfortunately, many beautiful young people who leave the Police College today also choose a different career. So it's a little neat, I think, when the Center Party is now challenging the settlement transfer. Here, the government boasts of transferring — sending — prisoners to settlement in the country of origin, for example. to Romania. The representative Klinge and I have been to Romania and looked at the settlement conditions there. They're accepted. What is the standard of the settlement there is far below the settlement conditions we have in Norway. When the Progress Party points out that we can have our own prisons for foreign criminals in Norway, I think we have a long way to go before we come to a situation where the standard is similar to that of the country of origin.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e128	So the word change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e132	The latest figures show that the percentage of data on crime — reports — in Norway has increased to 40.7 pst. in the first half of 2011. It's high. In 2009 the figure was 34 pst. The Directorate of Police survey showed that 94 pst. among the population of Norway, they feel safe in their environments. We also see that the number of reports of crime in Norway has decreased by some tens of thousands since the turn of the century. It is not the case that Norwegian society is on the defensive in terms of crime. On the contrary, I believe that we are on the offensive, and that this budget also provides the basis for a further offensive. It is good that the government is able to clarify measures after terrorist attacks on 22 July as quickly as it has done in this budget, that a number of things are put forward that there is no doubt that we should get started right away. The main discussion on the measures to be taken by the Stortinget after 22 July – the experience gained from it – comes in the context of the special committee we have set up here at Stortinget to look at the statements made by the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Defence. It also comes when the 22nd July Commission comes up with its report in August next year. It's good that the government shows that you don't wait for the main debates here at Stortinget until you grab hold. What is being done about helicopters and reserve helicopters, more crews for them, Emergency Network, which is the very largest budget allocation, more investment in the PST, upgrading the emergency team, getting funds in place and people to deal with the new scale of the victims' cases after July 22, what is being done to put money into the investigation that is being done immediately, and what is being done in this budget – investigation, prosecution, courts – to deal with the terrorist issue is excellent. I think there's a great deal of excitement on the Stortinget that you show that you can take action right away. But it is also important that we keep an eye on the development of costs in these areas, especially for the courts and prosecutions, which are the ones that get the greatest pressure in the year that comes, after the investigation efforts of the police begin to wane. It is true, as the chairman of the committee also stated, that in the years to come, the main task in the justice sector is to achieve the objective of the 2020 strategy, namely two police officers per 1000 inhabitants. We have set out a plan for it through this strategy. The chairperson of the Committee raises the question of whether we are on our way. I think we're on our way, because we've begun to pick up the number of police students we need to achieve that goal. We started with it from 2010 -- 720 students per year. It is three times more than in the years 2002–03. We're still doing this in 2011 and we're adding up to the same thing in 2012. If it continues – as it has to – in the years ahead, until 2020, it will, until then, for eight years, come 720 students out of the Police College. Then we want a different situation than the one we had so late this summer, when 422 went out of high school. So we want far more to recruit into the police in the period that comes from 2013. I think we have to think that there will be a slightly different situation when so many come out of high school. It won't be that it can immediately stand 720 jobs ready for them in the police. It will have to be a phase in which you work on recruitment, filling up for those who retire in the years that come – that you have a process where they get into the police. That process has been successful. From 2006 to the hill that went out in 2010, has 94–95 pst. of those who went out of the Police College every year, working in the police a year later. There's an unusually high number in relation to other colleges, and the number of people taking a job in the police wants to use their education. Of those who graduated from the Police College this year, in the summer of 2011, 383 are on 15 November who have passed the exam, i.e. also passed the shooting test, etc., and of them, 329 are now employed by the police in different ways. It is true that some people are temporary workers, etc., but I think that in most professions you have to realize that will be the case in transitional stages. I believe that when we have also allocated funds to 202 posts to recruit those who then come out of the Police College, which is 522 – 722, it will only be from 2013 onwards – there are a number of positions that need to be weighed up against the number that are also going out of retirement, and the number that you have to fill up after for other reasons, so that you have a realistic plan to get those who leave the Police College next year, into the police. This is a big task for the Stortinget to do in the years to come, and I think the very biggest promise comes from 2013, when we get 720 pieces out of the Police College. It's important that we can stick to that goal, that one. It's going to be a big problem for all governments until 2020, and also that we don't put our legs under each other and already say that it doesn't work, that this problem can't be solved. It's true, as the chairman of the committee says, that the police coverage, the number of uniformed police officers per thousand, has not increased in recent years. That's right. I think it's important that we are honest and proper about the facts, so that we have a common background to work with these matters. But it is also right to bear in mind that the total figures for annual police work have increased since 2006 – there are probably 1,600 more annual police work, but there are also civilians. One of the reasons we've had to spend a lot of time on civilians is that there aren't enough students from Police College that we've been able to increase the police coverage. We've also got a police agreement, which gives at least 230 more years' work in the police department, as a result of working one more hour, which comes in addition to that. When we get new resources in the police, we have to work to make good use of resources, for example. working on the performance reform, which will be the next major issue to be addressed by the Justice Committee and the Stortinget on the Justice page. The reform of results comes as a result of a process that began with the police role message, which was presented by the previous government. It was followed up by a crew analysis, which is the 2020 strategy, with two police officers per thousand, which came in 2008, and which was followed up by an operational analysis carried out in 2009 — an operational analysis of a number of police districts on how to use their resources in practice, and which is now to culminate in the performance reform coming in autumn 2012. It will be a crucial matter for the Storting to discuss. As the chairman of the committee was also concerned, it is important to make good use of the resources. Interesting input has been made into the discussions until now. One thing that the Committee stresses in the setting, and that we, on our side, would also stress, is the work on measurement criteria. It is important that the police, when using their resources, do not use them artificially because they have artificial measurement criteria, such as: Over-emphasis on the number of road traffic offences or the number of simple drug offences detected — it provides a little artificial achievement of the targets in relation to what is required of interventions, e.g. to cooperate on major organised crime issues. Big things like, for example, MC crime, which we talked about here in the Storting yesterday, requires cooperation between the police districts, long-term work and heavy resources. It will not give the same pronunciation in the existing measurement criteria, so it is important to adjust it. Similarly, it's important that the measurement criteria are arranged so that we get the police out of there among people, that we manage to make demands through the measurement criteria, so that we get the effect, that people look at them on the street at all times of the day, and that it works according to purpose. There are several ways of designing the measurement criteria and achieving that effect. One of the things we've been recording in the discussion is to demand that you be in touch with your audience, your population, for example. through a permanent police system, where a certain number of people know which police officer they have to deal with and can keep in touch with, even when there are no emergency cases. We will address these kinds of questions when we come to the reform of results. I also think that other parties have raised interesting discussions, for example, how we avoid that the retirement age of 57 makes us lose too many good police officers too early, who could have worked in completely different ways in the police. There we have to find other solutions to what is the situation today. It requires cooperation from police organisations. If not, the question of 57 years of age will be a debate. We need to be able to find ways to get more policemen to use all the experience they have — many can be young and speak when they are 57 years old — to make an effort for a number of years in the police in the future. There are also several other key points to develop the fight against crime. We know that we have struggled with the introduction of ICT in the police. There it is that in this draft budget the government is now beginning to earmark funds, as the chairman of the committee called for. That's 80 million. kr earmarked in this budget. We hope and believe that the amount should increase in the coming years, so that we take care that the operation in the police districts is not disproportionately affected by investment in ICT. It is also important that we have a common approach to the situation. In the budget proposal, the government said that it was set aside approximately last year. 250 million. kr around the police for ICT. They say they're going to continue this to next year, and then they have the earmarked 80 million. kr to be used as well. The opposition, as well as the Police Union, have said that this is 450 million. SEK – 480 million. kr. That's more than 200 million. kr will decide very much on what action space is actually in the police for next year, but I believe that the Storting, and of course we in the government parties, relate to the framework described in the budget. I think we're all well served that we have a common starting point for the kind of numbers that are in the budget proposition. It is also important that the government follow up on what was raised by the Storting in the previous budgetary position, and in particular on organised crime, namely online crime, cybercrime or cybercrime. As we wrote in the attitude of the Biggest Report on Organised Crime, a separate working group in the Police Directorate has now been set up to get into that work. The government is now proposing a budget of between 15 and 16 million. kr extra to Kripos, to the data-space department that is being built there. Here's a very difficult task that almost towers up in front of us, because this is a lot of broken ground. Only to mention one field where much needs to be inserted: capacity to search when making seizures. Just as you search elsewhere, you have to search computers and mobile phones. The competence to carry out the research of electronic equipment is a crucial part of the resolution of many criminal cases, and very many police districts do not have the competence to carry out that type of investigation, do not have that type of team. Here, the assistance from Kripos is absolutely crucial. But it's a difficult task to build up these resources enough in the years to come. I have mentioned some key issues that we are now discussing in order to renovate the work of the police, the work against crime. There are also many other important issues to discuss in the budget proposal, on which other of our representatives will address. But I just want to say that in the case of criminal justice, as the committee chairman mentioned, when this government took over, it was a line for reconciliation that was up to 3,000. By establishing 870 new places, including the electronic forms of reconciliation, the queue was reduced to almost zero. Then the police's efforts increased, the percentage of information, strongly last year, so that we got more people into prison, got more convicted, which is good. Then it's true that the queue increased to 1,200 –1,300 from almost zero. But you also have to say that the queue is now on its way down. According to the last numbers we've got, it's probably 900 that's now in the queue. So there's a good job in these fields. New measures are also being introduced. There should be more compensation transfers to the rest of the world. You get up to approx. 50 this year. At least that is a big step forward in relation to previous years. As these settlement transfer agreements are under way, the volume of this will increase sharply. We'll get back to more questions along the way. But we are satisfied with a budget that brings us on the offensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e174	It's going to be access to line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e177	I just want to give credit to the representative Jan Bøhler, the Legal Spokesman of the Labour Party, because he's honest. So he says in his post that he can't guarantee all newly trained police students jobs. It is a bit of a declaration to come from the prime justice politician for the government parties here in the Stortinget. You're the world for a signal to send to those who believe they're going to have a professional career in the police post-Police College! So Jan Bøhler has to find room for these on the social security budget before he can then hopefully hire them in the police. Can the representative Jan Bøhler guarantee that in 2020 we have two per 1 000 inhabitants in operational positions?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e184	I think it was an uplifting start on the post to the line edge, but it fell very slowly! I'm saying 94-95 pst. by all those who have graduated from the Police College from 2006 to 2010, have got a job in the police department. A guarantee of a job right away is no education group in Norway. There is no educational group in which there is similar pressure, similar efforts to get everyone into the job as soon as possible, as we have towards political students. We're doing everything we can to achieve this. In the strategy towards 2020 that Kielland Asmyhr and also the case rapporteur talk positively about, it is of course that with those who go out of the Police College, we also have to fill out natural departures. It has nothing to do with being dependent on social security funds. But everyone knows that policemen are gradually getting so old that they're going to end up in the police. Then we also have to train people who are ready to take their jobs. So I really don't understand the problem. The new thing is that the Progress Party will provide a guarantee that there will be 720 jobs clear every year after the students leave the Police College. I can't give that guarantee. But we've achieved 94-95 pst. every year. That is a good result – we still have to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e193	When the representative of Bohemia refers to 95 p.m., he does not talk about those who have not completed in normal time. And he should also take that into account. Can the representative, Mr Bøhler, say anything about how much police coverage is going to increase on the basis of this budget, and guarantee that we will at least reach the target of police coverage of at least two per 1000 inhabitants by 2020? It's set at 140 million. kr for new jobs, but ICT investment will cost between 250 million. NOK 350 and SEK 350 million. kr. So you're left with negative 200 million. kr on the operating budget for the recruitment of people. Can the representative Boehler say what the police coverage is going to be during 2012, and can he guarantee that we will get two per 1000 inhabitants by 2020, when we are now so strong in deficits?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e202	I said that the real, powerful, increase in police coverage per 1,000 people is going to start when we train 720 per year – which is based on the Police College. It will be from 2013. Over the next eight years, Stortinget has supported the 2020 strategy that is there and that builds it gradually towards 2020. After all, governments are going to have to face up to 2020 – each and every one of them. I also hope the Storting will put up with it. I cannot stand here and give any guarantee on behalf of all the governments. I can't now calculate the population development to next year and what the 522 high school police students going out to next year will exactly give in police coverage. But the real increase, even as it is in the 2020 strategy, will occur from the beginning of 720 students from the Police College.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e207	I'm glad we're inside an honest corner, it always makes the debates much better. I am not so happy with guarantees, because I agree with the representative of Bohemia that there is a lot to be done by 2020 before we know whether we are actually achieving the goals that we have set ourselves. But I have to admit that I have the sense of representative Bohemian, because he is a good representative, but also because he is always willing to think a little new and often think loudly. I want to challenge you a little bit further, because we see that there is a decrease in the police force. We were up to 1.8, now we're down to 1.5 and 1.6 per 1,000 people, and at least we're not going the way we want to go. That's why I want to challenge the fractional leader from the Workers' Party a little bit on what we really want. Do we want to reach two per 1,000? Is there something that the representative believes is realistic? Or will the representative begin to think that maybe one has to change that goal, based on where we are today?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e216	720 per year from 2013 to 2020 gives 5,760 newly trained police officers access to the police. We have to combine it to work better with, among other things. The pension schemes — which means that more people are left behind after 57 years, so that more people are left in the police — with other measures that can keep us in the resources, keep people in the police. Of course, we need more civilians into the police – there is another part of this package in terms of increased police efforts – but two per 1,000 are police officers. I believe that the objective is clear that we are following the plan set for it. I think it would be much more reassuring if the Stortinge put it up for it and said that this we think we should do. It's going to be a big promise to get budgets in the years to come that can achieve that goal. I don't think we should create any doubt towards each other about that. I think that the approach of the Stortinget in crime policy, that we should agree to solve the problems, should also apply here.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e223	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e226	The treatment of the 2012 state budget is marked by 22 July, of course. The right joins in what has been said, both here today and before, related to the enormous efforts of the police, health professionals, volunteers, weights, firemen, military and others put down on and after the worst day of our country since World War II. Not least, every member of staff in the Ministry of Justice deserves enormous thanks and support. The load that must have been subjected to this cannot be described. The more impressive it is to see the high professional quality it has been on the answers we have received during the budgetary process, and on the issues that have been presented. On behalf of the Right, I would like to thank all the staff of the Ministry of Justice. I know that someone was a little white in the eye when our whole ‘speak’ came with questions, but it has to be interpreted as a tribute to the staff of the Ministry of Justice. To the extent that it is possible to say something positive about what happened because of July 22, it must be to see how we nordics stood together and cared about each other. Parties threw the ego aside and acted together, and not least we saw how especially young people called about democracy. That gives hope. We are now discussing many questions that we need to discuss more and better, both the more principled and the more operational. The July 22 Commission will clarify responsibilities, while its own July 22 Committee will point the way forward in the short term and hopefully bring together some concrete measures which, together with this budget, can make society safer and better prepared. At the same time, there is reason to say that a number of the measures taken, which make the Ministry of Justice a so-called budget winner this year, are an indirect recognition of failure in several areas. The fact that the police helicopter was on the ground for periods more than it was in the air is a political responsibility that has been tried to cover by claiming that the Stortinge has joined it. It's doing something about it, and it's not a second too early. For six years we've had a red-green majority government, with more money to distribute than ever. The fasitator when we write December 2011 is that the police coverage goes down, the settlement queues are likely to go up in the future, and society's preparedness has weakened in several areas. I'm not saying that because it's some particular pleasure to criticise, but because it's the real situation in our sector, and it worries the Right. Over the course of six years, the government has not increased the police coverage in the pact with the Stortingen assumptions — and at a time when public budgets are larger than ever. We are strongly in favour, and it was finally counterproductively recognized by the recently resigned State Council of Storberget. Even though we've had several years of police work, it hasn't become more police with the population. When the police coverage is 1.6 per 1 000 when we write in 2011, we are in line with the objectives of the crew report, and we are in line with the objectives all in this room have joined. Then I think we should admit that we have a common problem. Now there's a new state council in the chair. The budget of this Council of State will be governed by, most likely, we will be able to make even more indebtedness in relation to the target. The right is proposing 400 million needed. kr extra for us to be able to ‘boost’ police operating budgets, so that we can achieve the goals the government itself says it still has. This can help us to employ up to 450 more police officers. For several years, the Right has proposed money to compensate for ICT, so that it does not age against the employment of police. For several years we have called for a cross-political settlement, so that the objectives we have can be achieved, but the government's response has been no. In the meantime, people gradually lose faith that the police are able to do their job, even though they have confidence that the police are trying as hard as they can. Money does not solve everything, but along with better use of civil servants, better purchasing practices, reorganization of police districts, own case to the ICT bet, voluntary police, opening up for private use for prisoner transport, use of other analysis institutes for DNA analyses, police studies and a powerful strategy against one percent of MC environments, Right will contribute to a safer society. With regard to the continued resistance to DNA analysis, other than the Forensic Institute, it is still impossible to understand why the government will not, when the so-called ‘principal’ arguments are principles that seem to be available for sale in other areas. The critical reports of the National Audit Office in recent years show the need for a police study. The size is almost without information on how much the ICT bet in the police will cost, how much time it takes, and what has been received for the hundreds of millions spent after the Killenger spent years for the nearest deaf ears pointed out the need in the governance dialogue with the department. It's still little satisfactory that the Stortinge has the mark of participating in some kind of quiz, where we have to guess what's going on, and I therefore refer to the proposal on our own case on the ICT bet that Right has promoted, and that we again propose our own police study. We also want an answer to when the promised external review of the PST is completed, and how you see it working. It's even more important than how long the Council of State sees itself served to keep the seated PST manager. The right is open to structural debate, but changes will help bring more police, and not less. It doesn't hold that watchlists don't match the real crime scene, and that agreements about an extra hour's job don't have clear leads for what it's going to contribute to by increasing police force. In addition, new thinking is needed to achieve the goal of more visible police officers. It had e.g. have been fooled by the use of more arrest warrants, with good basic training in limited police authorities, that they could assist the police and create more police force when, for example, this is the case. are not meetings in Oslo district. It can increase security by making more efficient use of money. The proportion of unskilled people in criminal services is high, while the challenges are growing, not least in view of the increasing number of foreign criminals in Norwegian prisons. In 2008, twelve settlements were transferred, while in 2010 41 settlements were transferred. It is positive in itself, but when the average number of foreign prisoners has increased from 553 in 2006 to 1,178 in 2011, it helps little. So it's strange that you're reducing the number of places at KRUS. The right therefore proposed that at least 45 additional places be established. We also call for answers when we intend to establish our own prisons for prisoners who are not to be returned to Norway, and when we intend to buy places abroad, so that capacity is not used as an indirect argument for not accepting our own citizens. Everyone also agrees that voluntary organisations are doing a huge job to prevent crime and to ensure that criminals become crime-free. Right will have a stronger bet on them, as they just get a lot out of each krona because their experience is based on real life, which you don't necessarily get just through literal learning. It is not just in relation to the ICT effort and the reduction of police helicopter preparedness that we see how a majority informs little, or almost does not inform at all. The Control Committee is now examining a matter concerning the follow-up of St.meld by the Government. No 22 for 2007-2008, on Civil defense. The concerns received from civil defence employees, from the civil defence authorities themselves and from the DSB do not appear to have been taken sufficiently seriously. In cases where the former Council of State is aware that the Storing's clear assumptions are not met, the Government should have informed the Storing specifically about that and the relationship between the Storing's assumptions and the actual situation. The representative, Mr. Bøhler, said that the percentage of clarification was good. Everyone knows that statistics are statistics. If you talk to the weight company, they say that they feel that the police are coming later and later, which means that they have to release the prisoners. Then you don't get to register them, and the numbers of darkness are increasing. If you talk to private investigators, they tell you how much they spend because the police don't have the capacity to investigate. And then you also get increased numbers of darkness. It is a discussion we must have in the picture – almost no matter who is in the government – when discussing crime statistics. The fact that it's set at 80 million. kr to ICT, is a start, after several years we have had to guess how much to spend on ICT. But when the cost is up to 250-350 million. So let's start with 270 million in 2012. kr i minus to hire people. 140 million. SEK for new jobs corresponds to one third of the likely cost of ICT investment. The new council does not start with blank sheets. Lower police coverage, longer rescue cows and weakened preparedness in several fields are the blackbook of the previous Council of State. I refer to the Right's Alternative Budget, the Minority Proposals and a number of Document 8 proposals that the Right has promoted in the Stortinget, and I think it would have been a good idea for the government parties to inspire something.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e264	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e268	There is a consensus that we will try out prison departments for criminal foreigners. The aim is to enable prisoners to leave the country as soon as possible. I have come to understand that the Right Party, like the government parties, is concerned that the content of the settlement should be adapted to the needs of the prisoners, including, among other things, the prisoners. appropriate activities, interpreting services, staff with competence in different cultures, etc. The Progress Party believes that these prison departments should have lower standards and that foreigners should have lower rights than the Nordics have. Norsk Fengsels- und Freiorgensförbund says that the proposal is a poor criminal welfare policy and that it will promote crime. The NFF also uses expressions such as ‘backlash’ and ‘racist’. Do you share the right NFF's vision?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e277	I'm very proud of the Right Policy, which is that we want to bring prisoners back to Norwegian society, and those who are not going back to Norwegian society are going back to society in another country. Then we have to adapt the amount of compensation within the framework required by human rights and the proper functioning of a prison. I record that we in the Right have received a lot of support from the NFF for our approach. If the NFF has problems with the Progress Party, I suggest asking the question to the Progress Party, and looking at what might be the policy of the new government, which is going to be very good, based on the Right Policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e284	The representative, Oktay Dahl, must have my and SV's praise for being active and committed to the ongoing debate on women's security – and other groups too – in the country. In the so-called rape debate, he has been ahead of us, and it is affordable. There are many citizens in Oslo – and also in other cities – who have done a fantastic job. People have gone away at night, people have been awake, people have been more concerned about this and have given the city commitment and security. Yesterday, Mr Dahl's colleague here in Stortinget described this commitment as a symbolism policy. He placed all the responsibility on the police and on the Minister of Justice. I ask whether the representative, Oktay Dahl, agrees that people's commitment is symbolism.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e293	At first I must say that it is incredibly delicious to get praise from the representative Akhtar Chaudhry. It belongs to the units of the rares, so I really take that to myself. It must probably bear the mark that the Right Policy is good. When it comes to combating rape, I registered that Akhtar Chaudhry took part in the debate yesterday. I also expect you to get what the representative Michael Tetzschner said. You can read the minutes afterwards. So he started by saying that we all agree on what needs to be done on a broad front to combat rape, but that his theme of yesterday's interpellation was about what the government can do. And there's the representative Tetzschner quite right: the police coverage has gone down. Private analysis institutes are not used to analyse DNA as quickly as possible, which would have been an important contribution to getting more perpetrators and preventing rape. So what's symbolism here is that you don't actually admit that more police are also a prerequisite for combating rape.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e302	I'm going to promise that I won't get hurt saying that Right's policy is good. The Right Party and the Progress Party are possible future partners – although the Progress Party is against parties in some fields – in any government formation. It is tempting to ask whether the representative Oktay Dahl shares the view of his co-representative Tetzschner, that Per Sandberg has shown this week that he can never be Minister of Justice. Does Oktay Dahl realize that someone else from the Progress Party can become Minister of Justice in the future? Oktay Dahl can choose if he wants to answer this. My main question is about the structure of the police. Right is, as we know, a centralization party in many areas: states should be removed, there should be massive mergers of municipalities, etc. Then I want to ask, what about the police? Should there be a connection between that kind of merger request and what's happening in the police, should Right think that we should remove a lot of loner offices?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e309	Actually, the Central Party's representative should say that the Right Policy is good, because in the post that the representative Klinge held yesterday, she talked a lot about local police. There won't be much local police by actually reducing police coverage. When it comes to centralisation, I think the centre party should be a bit concerned with what our own representative Anders B. Werp has been concerned about for a longer time, namely how state authorities, with the centre party at its head, are about to go against the municipalities, by constantly making more state orders, by not taking the municipalities seriously and by giving them limited right of access. I would have thought that a value-conservative party like the Center, which is occupied by property rights, would have been a little bit more concerned about it, and that they might also consider, like the Center Youth, to switch sides, from the mid-point to the right-hand side, which is actually for property rights, as opposed to something that seems to be in government, of which the Center Party is part.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e316	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e319	Security is the very foundation of democracy. It is the government's responsibility to provide security in society. So does the government next year. The police budget has been strengthened once again. ICT efforts continue. Over 2 billion. kr goes to the Emergency Network. This will strengthen the fight against crime. We want to prevent more, investigate and judge faster and rehabilitate better. On 22 July the country was hit by a terrorist attack. 77 lives were lost. In the demanding hours after the attack, the police, the fire department, the health services, the civil defence, the defence, volunteers and other actors put themselves in a comprehensive position. It is appropriate that these people should be thanked from the pulpit of the Storting. Without this effort, the pain and loss might have been far greater. A special thanks to the Ministry of Justice, who in these terrible hours and afterwards has shown courage and perseverance. On July 22, 77 people were torn away from their families. Young lives were lost, many would mourn over them for a long time. Survivors will have challenges in life, some of them for a long time. Our job is to help those who are grieving get the help they are entitled to. Survivors will be helped to get on their feet, both physically and mentally. This budget takes that into account. I'm glad. Nothing can replace the loss that families have suffered, and the pain that survivors have. However, we need to ensure that the economy does not become an obstacle to healing the wounds. That budget provides that the Office for the Compensation of Victims and the Compensation of Victims shall be provided with increased resources to deal with victims of violence as soon as possible and to avoid any losses. The attack on July 22 was an attack on our democracy, our community, our values, our multicultural society. There are many stories that people with a minority background were harassed in the first few hours immediately after the attack. Many took it for granted that there had to be a Muslim who was behind the terrorist attacks. Others assumed it automatically. It's not an entirely unnatural reaction. When ‘Islam’, ‘terrorism’, ‘truths’, ‘immigrants’, ‘ asylum seekers’ and ‘crime’ are all too often said and written at the same time, such assumptions are not unnatural. However, they are dangerous. However, terrorism has proved to have no religion, no identity. Terrorists have only one thing in common: they hate democracy and diversity. I hope that this will be remembered in the future. Monday this week, we marked the UN Day against violence against women. I'm afraid that's necessary. As long as every third woman in the world experiences violence, it is unfortunately necessary that we continue the fight against violence against women. Women around the world become victims of violence from their own partners, from cynical interests and from militias who use them as sex slaves and rape them, as a weapon against the enemy. At home, women are still subjected to violence, including sexual violence. The government has done a good job by prioritising this field. We have strengthened the police, strengthened the law and punishment, strengthened the role of insulted women in the courts, put in place and strengthened help for violent women. However, it turns out that the fight must continue. There is SV and the government is set. Rape is one of the most brutal assaults a human being can be subjected to. The victims are going through the worst period of their lives, and many are afraid to walk on the streets alone after the dawn of darkness. We can't have it so half of the population is afraid to be out after it's dark. Here all the stones must be snuffed. Everything that can be done has to be done. We need a social commitment to rape. We must end with a discharge and stop blaming each other. The police cannot do the work of combating rape alone. It is important to further develop and coordinate a broad, comprehensive effort between the police, the municipality, public, private and voluntary sectors. That is why it is good and timely that an action plan against violence in the capital is now being drawn up in Oslo. At the same time, more men have to engage in this important social debate. I very much appreciate and thank all those who are committed to making the streets and girls safe. Tonight, a lot of people will go to the city at night. I want to thank them. We all know that there is a clear and sad connection between alcohol and violence, including violence against women. I am therefore amazed that the Advance Party will make the alcohol cheaper, also next year. The party has marked its clear resistance to limiting the turnaround time in the country by 1 hour. Then I don't understand that the party wants more police at the same time. Wouldn't it have been better not to create problems that the party in the next round needs more police to clean up? Yesterday I visited the attack reception in Oslo. The games there highlighted in particular the good offer of children’s homes provide violent children and their families. I am pleased that the proposal promoted by SV in 2003 has become a reality, and the action is the cross-political agreement on it. Seven children's houses have been established in Norway. The eighth is coming next year. The challenge is to get all the courts and police districts to avail themselves of them. SV is proud to be part of a government that has facilitated a fair and knowledge-based criminal justice system. We're going to punish, but we're going to always be clear that the vast majority of inmates will come out into society one day. Then it is in the interest of society – and of the prisoner – that he or she be given the opportunity to rehabilitate, to become a better person. SV and the government have great ambitions for our criminal care. In the future, we're going to work to realize these ambitions. Then KRUS must be strengthened. Then we have to work to make the coating less than today. Then we have to reduce the number of unskilled employees. But at the same time, I would like to stress that those who have not graduated from Prison School are a very important and integral part of today's and tomorrow's criminal care. I would like to highlight several of the measures that have started, last year and this year, to ensure access to qualified staff, including: through the compulsory continuing training course and the level of competence which started in February of this year. I also look forward to the work on the crew analysis for criminal services being completed. Let me end by sending a request to my fellow human beings out there. In these Christmas times and the days around Christmas we know that alcohol and solitude can become a problem for some, actually too many. No government, no police, no helper can replace and fill the place that only fellow humans can and should fill in these days. A wake-up buddy, 1 hour with someone sitting alone, can make a difference. We have to stand up for each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e355	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e358	Why in the world will the representative Chaudhry not support us in having more classes at KRUS when we see the need we have for specialists in prison care?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e363	As I was in my post, we are very concerned that we are going to have robust criminal care. Then there will be room for far more than we have today. I fully agree that the coating is too large. I agree that unskilled people represent a greater proportion than I would have liked, but there is an overall budget that we defend. We'll be strengthened back on many later occasions. We aim to further strengthen criminal justice.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e371	The representative has a profitable focus on assault violence and the situation of women. On 4 March last year, the Stortinget debated a proposal from the Right for a faster and more legal DNA analysis. The representative Chaudhry took it as a «honor's title» to conduct an ideological fight against non-public analytical laboratories. Yesterday, we heard the Council of State stress that DNA analysis in priority issues is to be treated within 24 hours. In today's edition of Drammen's Official Journal, which I have here, it says about a reported rape in Drammen on 19 November, and the police have still not received a response to the DNA analysis. They're waiting for answers today, maybe next week, as they say. Two weeks have passed. Is the representative of Chaudhry equally proud of his dogmatic struggle against non-public DNA laboratories?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e382	There are a couple of three things here: first, I ask the representative and the whole Right Group to get in touch with the police as well as to read the newspapers. I'm still in contact with the police. Last time – 14 days ago – I met with the office of morality in Oslo. It may occur in the case of DNA tests, but the police are satisfied with the way the DNA tests are done. They are also satisfied with the time aspect. I have not heard a single complaint from the Oslo Police Department, nor from the Bergen Police Department or from other police districts. I'm standing here waiting for a police officer to call me and say, "I can't get the DNA test done in the right time." The second is that we have no dogmatic relationship to this, but we have a strong loyalty to the criminal case chain and that it should be under official control.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e389	The representative, Chaudhry, pointed to many important points in his fine speech, among others. the consequences of alcohol use. We agree with many of the points. That is why I have to say that this reception, among other things. I am disappointed that alcohol advertising — and the possibility of it coming on TV — has been given by the government. I had hoped that SV would put it hard on hard and ensure that this was not the case. Then we also know that there have been many years – it is probably four years – since former Minister of Justice Storberget was clear that we had to get a previous tip. Still, nothing has happened — while the representative Chaudhry is so clear about the serious consequences of alcohol abuse. We know that moving something, for example. alcohol advertising, can move on more. Much of the reason why we are able to maintain a restrictive alcohol policy is that we are able to have it across a wide range, and that is important for Norway. What does Chaudhry think should be done in the future to prevent it from continuing in that direction?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e398	Thank you for the article. At the very end, the representative became a little unclear, so the question is a little unclear, but let me still answer it. SV disagrees and has indicated its opposition to the sending of alcohol advertising on Norwegian television. However, it is the case that the country is part of the EEA Agreement, and then, ultimately, we have to do what we are required to do. SV still disagrees with the EEA Agreement, we believe it should be re-evaluated, and I invite the Christian People's Party to do so. What we can do under the current circumstances is at least to have a restrictive alcohol policy in the country, and it has all the possibilities for both the Storting and local democracy. I am grateful that there is an SV here, both in the Stortinget and in the local policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e409	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e412	When we change word usage and manipulation, it may be a result of a change in society and in reality, but a shift in word usage can also provide the basis for a new sense of reality. In this article, I'm going to start with the name we just had in the department we're in the Justice Committee. The Ministry of Justice and Police went to the Ministry of Justice and Defence. The background is, as we all know, on July 22nd and the events that day, the time before and the time after. There was a new reality for all of us, but it also points towards a different direction of our policy. So far, there's been a lot of police. The police are strong, they stand up for their demands, and they have won legitimately, of course, because they are important, and one needs them throughout the country. We've worked out a lot more, and we've given more money. We know that the police case is not easy either, but we have shown a clear commitment, and that is an important commitment. But now we may be even more aware that many other actors, in interaction with the police, are decisive for a good preparedness. I think we're going to raise the gap – even more so – in the future. There was an impressive effort by many this summer during these terrorist attacks. Individuals — at risk of life and health — were at risk, the police made a great effort, health professionals, etc. - not least voluntary organisations at a time. We have seen more clearly that adding to emergency seats, in rescue facilities and volunteers cannot do the job alone. I mean, we can't introduce crisis measures in an acute crisis, which we've had now, that can change our society. We experienced getting good words from the top leaders of the state about an open and inclusive society after what happened. It is good, in my opinion, that the 22nd of July Commission is going to do a long-term job of going through what has happened, and not least pointing forward towards action. If we were to explore introducing different types of measures and making changes to the promises now, I think we could have lost something important – fundamental values – in our society. We can never guarantee ourselves against a nature that releases the cancers, or individuals/groups that go amok. We do not know where the next terrorist attack can happen – it may be on an oil installation, it may be against institutions in cities other than Oslo. That is precisely why we need to see the importance of the diverse and broad-based preparedness with different actors. I am therefore pleased that in the setting we propose 5 million. kr extra to voluntary organisations in rescue operations. It may seem that the Home Guard is threatened by being weakened. It's not our committee that has the Homeland Protection, but I think it's the most relevant yet, and I'll mention it briefly. Home security is the bond of defence to the inhabitants and to different parts of our country. Home security must be able to secure important infrastructure throughout the country, in both war and peace, and in various crises. So home security is an important part of the overall preparedness, and I hope we're all on it so that it's still going to be. The police are, as I said before, a strong and competent establishment, which is present in much of our country. After the summer's terrorist acts, there was a lot of talk about central preparedness and police in Oslo. It is quite right that we now in next year's budget also strengthen central units and the police in this city in order to get away from the situation that arose, and the enormous work that followed it. But then there's also the tragic thing that happened on the island, an example that other districts can become frames, and we never know when and where the next time can happen. I'm also busy not to maximize crisis — it's not going to happen every day, and hopefully it won't happen again quickly. But we know that things can happen again and probably will happen again. The centre party is busy maintaining the local police force. The reform of results, which the government is currently working on, and which the Storting will start to deal with next year, is an important work. But we're going to have the most possible money for the money we give to the police. It means to me that we have to look at the structure at the same time. There are differences of opinion as to how the police should be composed, whether we should have a large number of officers' offices and many police districts, etc., and we in the Central Party do not disagree that there may be any change. But a proper review is needed to see what to do and what to do and what to do. The ICT bet is very important, and there we are of course forced to bring more money. One thing is now the investments that are being made, but it's also about how we choose to use ICT in the future. I think that we can think a little bit about what we usually do, that centralization doesn't necessarily mean moving to cities and larger places, but that one can centralize the way of normal practice just by transferring tasks to small offices, because ICT allows one to cooperate across offices and district boundaries. In this way, a local police force can be strengthened, the work environment can be increased in some places, easy recruitment, etc. The Justice field is a major policy area. This debate just reflects that. I would like to say a few words about a theme other than my main theme, readiness, which I also thought is important to mention. We've strengthened the land change courts in next year's budget, which I think is very important to prevent the emerging problems we see in recruiting land change judges. Earth change is too many a little bit unknown part of what we're doing in the state. Land change courts clarify the ownership of agriculture in local communities – in cities, too, not just in the countryside. For the red-green government, which is busy getting rid of good and large transport projects and getting more small-scale deployments going, the land change courts are unlikely to be important to get it done as quickly as possible. And then I'll also say that I'm happy for the $5 million. kr added to the voluntary rescue service. As I was inside, there's probably a signal that we're seeing wider – perhaps wider than before – on standby. We've always been aware that there's a lot of connection here, but it's been extra visible now, and it's good that we follow it up. Finally, I would like to ask myself about the reputation that the Ministry of Justice has received after what has happened. I don't think any of us can grasp the reach of what one has experienced, but what we all understand is that it has been a terrible hard time with both sorrow and fear. But at the same time, there's a lot of work that makes it possible for us to do what we're going to do. I think it's right for the whole committee to thank, as a lot of people have done. Then I'll finish where I started, that words sometimes result from change, and that words other times have been the cause of change. The words we used after the terrorist attacks have helped many of us to understand how important it is to stick together on basic values. I hope we still do that. We were at least the first time concerned that a political debate should not only be about conflicts, but also about combining the important values. Just as justice policy is open to a political field where it is both necessary and possible in my view.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e448	It's being opened for line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e451	We know there is a great need for resources in the police. For example, we would like to see it done. cutting VAT on police vehicles so that they do not have to pay VAT in line with other recovery rates having equivalent arrangements. Why does the representative Mrs Klinge not want to support this?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e456	There are still discussions about what kind of arrangements we have around VAT and different taxation, leases, etc. In the police too, as elsewhere, e.g. City ship tunnel – it is a derailment in one way – where VAT is also an important issue. I mean that in total, whatever area we're talking about, it's they collect the permissions that's the most important thing. If, as it may seem, we cut some floors instead of increasing, the VAT regime will not help to change. For our part, we're more concerned with increasing the collection of licenses, so that it's actually possible to buy police vehicles, than by digging ourselves into VAT systems and such types of details, as one might call it. I understand that the representative is busy with it, and there may be a clear signal from the police about it, but it's the total promises that, after all, are most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e463	The representative, Klinge, asked questions in the lines to the Right André Oktay Dahl about the police coverage in the districts – a strange question, because in our opinion, the representative should hold up the mirror and ask the question to himself. I'll do it for her. The police coverage's going down. On questions from the Right, the Ministry of Justice confirms that in 21 out of 27 districts the police coverage goes down. What it is primarily affecting is the police representation in the districts. Länsmann’s offices have to cut jobs and keep jobs on the watch. So I want to kind of hold up the mirror of the representative Klinge, so that she can answer the question, how can the Central Party support a policy that weakens the police's presence and security-creating work in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e470	The representative now addresses a very important topic, and the question is a good and good follow-up to what I asked his co-representative. The background to my question is that the Right is just the centralization party – one of the strongest – and what I am stunning at and don't understand is every Right wants to do with the bet they're talking about, because they're talking so little about structure. I get suspicious when the word structure is so rarely mentioned in a field, when it is so much called in other fields. And when the number of police officers per citizen is going to increase to two per 1,000, I'm busy, as I was in my question, where the Right will increase. The centre party is on the verge of it, we're going to have an increase in the whole country, and we've been involved in increasing the number of students and increasing the bet on the police, and the population has risen. What we have to do now is to continue our efforts, so that we can strengthen the police in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e476	To follow up the previous line: the solution is to give more money, so that one can actually hire the newly educated students. One would like to keep more people working, but more resources are needed for the police, so that one can hire more people. I should really start by thanking the representative's posts. It was a very good post, I was about to say, I could keep it myself, or I wish I kept it myself. It was a very good center policy, and the Center Party stands for a good tradition there. But I'm worried about how the police and the police districts are starting to restructure in the districts. The representative Klinge was very clear that centralization was not necessarily a good thing. Of course, changes sometimes have to be made, but often the consequences of the less visible police in the districts become. For example, in the Agder police district, as I know very well, the proposal is to reduce from 27 to 11 county offices – a clear weakening – and we have seen it in Trøndelag etc. What is the Central Party's grip to avoid such centralization, as it is put up to many places?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e483	I thank you for that question, it's an incredibly important theme. When it comes to the last one, the restructuring that is taking place, and the proposals that are now coming under the reform of results, it actually provokes me. Now, we're going to get popular treatment a performance reform that will lead the police's work forward, and the fact that, in the meantime, police officers are doing as hard a job as they are, I think I'm a problem, quite simply. So there's something I think it's good to be allowed to give a signal from this pulpit, too, that those processes have to be stopped pending a popular treatment. I also understand that State Secretary Terje Moland Pedersen said during PF's national meeting when he was interviewed by the NRK. So short to the police students: there is no uncertainty, or at least disagreement about talking about how many are added and not. It is clear that those who have not passed the exam are not allowed to work, and so are those who refuse to do so in parts of the country other than where they first wanted to. Then it's more compound than it might seem.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e490	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e493	On 22 July, the nation and democracy were attacked. 77 people, many of them young people who had great dreams and visions of how they could participate and change Norway and the world, were abruptly torn away. That's why I want to start by commending all the people involved in the important work that happened that day and in the future – all the agencies, volunteers and other actors that have been involved in the work. We as a nation and as a magnification are going through demanding rounds, evaluations, it's the Commission, it's the committee that's going to work, that's going to evaluate, that's going to come up with its answers and recommendations. It requires a trick from us as politicians in the process. The goal of the Christian People's Party is that this work should give us a safer society and a stronger preparedness, and that it can happen jointly and constructively between all parties. Safety in everyday life is a fundamental prerequisite for good quality of life. A robust police force also plays a fundamental role here. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the government has continued a high level of admission to the School of Police. That's good. On the other hand, the focus on police operating budgets is not in any way on the challenges in the sector. Paradoxically, today’s budgets are likely to lead many of the trained police students to unemployment. I don't think that's a good idea. The police are weakened. There are centralisations in the offices of locals, and there are fewer police per capita than there have been in the past. As I was in a line to the representative of Bohemia, I am pleased with honesty, and I think that the government must also be clearer about what is actually the goal ahead – and one thing is the goal, but also what is the actual picture of the situation. Because when there is such a clear decline, and there is no increase in 2012, I am concerned about whether a person is capable of achieving the goal. The Christian People's Party is clear that we're going to be part of the promise and reach the goal of two per 1,000 inhabitants, but I don't think one with that race will end up there. In addition, one also knows that the police have an IT platform that is about to collapse and needs to be replaced. There's a billion-class cost for which there's not enough money. The result is a deterioration in the police districts, which must cover expenditure on the operational budget. That is why the Christian People's Party believes that the police budget must be strengthened, not least in order to bring life to everyday crime. We've put in 260 million. kr collected for the police. It is not acceptable that the police have to make priorities that go into people's sense of justice, such as: Repeated referrals to cases involving a known perpetrator, deprioritising profit crime, which will make Norway an even more sought after place for criminal gangs from abroad, and failure to clean up drug sales in some areas of the larger cities. Prioritisation lists of the types of issues to be addressed are also a failure statement by the police. Furthermore, we want to strengthen police prevention. We want a police force that is visible in the streets and the surrounding environment, which prioritises prevention work and early action for young people in the risk zone. Unfortunately, in recent years there have been fewer officials in visible order. This is contrary to Stortinget's intentions of police reform, of a closer and more visible police force. This development must be reversed. Police must have financial room to increase staffing and strengthen prevention. Unfortunately, we do not find this room in the government budget for next year. The Christian People's Party has been happy that the government has strengthened the courts somewhat in recent years. That's absolutely necessary. There have been many lean years before the courts, there has been an increase in the number of cases and job stops in the sector. The fact that it is then proposed to the courts in 2012 is very surprising. That is why the Christian People's Party proposes further strengthening in its alternative budget. We can't allow the courts to become a clog in the criminal justice chain. Finally, I would like to point out that a credible security policy requires Norwegian politicians to stop talking around the cave, and that we dare to attack the causes of violence, unrest and fear. Between 60 and 80 pst. of all violence caused by alcohol. 1.5 million Nordics are plagued by the alcohol abuse of others. Nearly 50,000 women are physically injured by an intoxicated person every year. At the same time, the number of tipping points is increasing, and alcohol consumption is increasing sharply. Both the research community and the police criticise the articulation policy. The SIRUS comprehensive report from 18 Norwegian cities shows that one hour reduction in the turnout time on average leads to 17 pst. fewer cases of violence. The Christian People's Party has for a long time proposed to reduce the turnout time from 5 p.m. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 2nd@item: inlistbox The previous Minister of Justice was clear about what he wanted, and I am keen to hear if there will be a prioritized case for the current Minister of Justice as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e512	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e515	I agree with the representative, Ropstad, that it must now be said to be proven that previous tipping-off also means less violence and speculation. And then we'll see where this ends up on the government side, but I'll give the representative support for it. I would also like to say that I have registered with interest that the Christian People's Party's alternative budget operates with a web portal for information and guidance on rape victims. I think it's so much interesting that I want to give the representative the opportunity to say a little bit more about how to imagine such a portal – so maybe there's something we can have a dialogue about.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e522	Thanks for a good line, and thanks also for the clear support that the research material is in place, for the Christian People's Party has believed that the research is present, both internationally and nationally, and that therefore it should have been taken into account. So I hope that actually leads to you doing something about it. As far as the web portal is concerned, it's a very exciting proposal. Now I'm not going to take credit for everything, because it was the rape committee that suggested it, and it should have actually been followed up already. But what has been our goal with such a web portal is to provide more information and guidance for victims of rape, so that they can know where to turn in the event of rape, what requirements they have for follow-up, what legal certainty they must have, etc. For one of the points, it has to be that if you have been raped, or are unsure of what to do in the future, such information can easily be found, and such a web portal as the Rape Committee recommended can be a good solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e529	It may sometimes appear that the various parties are striving to charm the Christian People's Party in relation to future government formations, and it is well because the Christian People's Party thinks very well for all of us, in different ways. But what I'm worried about is that the Christian People's Party I know as a good and reliable and warm-hearted party comes out on another lead if they're to cooperate with the Progress Party. What I then want to ask concretely is what I also asked the representative Sandberg from the Progress Party about, and that is how, if necessary, more horrific and bad conditions in prisons for foreign prisoners should be consistent with the international commitments Norway has in order to be non-discriminatory in terms of ethnic background. How can the Christian People’s Party possibly address such a policy, which they may have to deal with if there is government formation? The same is true of the question of timing.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e536	I thank you for a good question. In spite of a lot of flirting from many parties, I can for sure just state that the Center Party will always have a high star with us, regardless of which freers will stand around! So to the concrete question: the party is in a thorough process, which is exciting, and which involves everything from members to communities and states, and I'm very excited about what the result of that process will be. But what the Klinge representative can be safe on, based on the examples she's referring to, is that the Christian People's Party is going to be clear that it's politics and what we can get through, that's going to be at the center. I know a lot about the consequences of sitting in government and having to stand in for everything the government is doing well. We don't have such an eagerness to sit in government that we're going to sell all the politics. The most important thing for us is to get a political impact, and if we don't get it, we won't do well for that policy, and thus go into opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e547	The red-greens took over after the Christian People's Party in 2005. We can proudly say that we have cleaned up after the Christian People's Party in the last six years. We've increased the police budget considerably, and the student figures, which were then 350 every year, and which is actually still a problem for us, we've increased to 720. So the Christian People's Party keeps saying that they want to strengthen the police. Then my question is: when the Christian People's Party actually had the opportunity, they put in government for four years and managed to perform only that, that there were 350 police students every year, how am I supposed to trust that the Christian People's Party will maintain the strong commitment that the Red-Green Government has now delivered over the past six years?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e554	We've already argued a lot about numbers, and I can put many question marks on the premises and reasoning that the representative Chaudhry uses. But I'm not going to do that. I just want to say that when we were in government, we strengthened the budgets considerably. It's always the way that the next government will spend a lot more money. So the question is, what does one get for the money, and what are the results? The results I see, and as the police reports themselves show, are that there is less visible police and less police coverage now. That's why not necessarily boasting that you've spent more money is the best proof that it's gotten better. But the representative, Mr Chaudhry, can be certain – we have shown that through our alternatives budgets in recent years – that we will prioritise more resources for the police. He can also be sure that we want a clearer priority for everyday crime. Then we believe that through more visible police we will also get a much better prevention work. This also applies to what we had up in the previous round, with e.g. clear district profile of the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e564	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e567	Terrorist attacks on 22 July have updated the fundamental task of judicial policy: to ensure the security of citizens within the principles of the rule of law. The budget we are debating today is also marked on 22 July. The government assured us after the attacks that hatred and terror will meet with more democracy, more openness, but never naivety. I interpret this in such a way that we should retain, and further develop, a state of law that respects both freedom and security, while at the same time being able to guarantee the security of the individual. One of the most fundamental tasks for any rule of law is to protect its own citizens. To achieve this objective, it may be tempting to resort to increased security measures when citizens are under attack or when the level of threat increases. But the state must also have other principles, for whatever threats we face, the state must not go along with – and contribute to undermining – respect for human rights, individual freedoms and the principles of any modern state of law. This balance sheet is already extremely difficult, but it has now become even more difficult than ever to find this balance sheet, considering July 22. But it is also difficult because of the general threat posed by domestic politics, by its own citizens, and also the threats addressed to Norway by foreigners, and by the rest of the world. Both the insecurity of being subjected to crime and the impotence of being monitored undermines the well-being of people. This is important to keep in mind when designing justice policy. We do not only gain freedoms by depriving citizens of the right to privacy through massive monitoring and through-regulation. The Government proposes a strong increase in the budget lines for social security and preparedness. The government will receive its full support from the Left. In addition, we believe that there is a need to step up training and exercises on extreme situations in Norway. Here we are. We have to do something about this. The left has therefore opted for an increase of 10 million in the allocation to the Directorate for Social Security and Preparedness. kr. The left has also increased the allocation of the Police Reserve in its alternative budget, not because we believe that the Police Reserve should be used as a compensation for the lack of police, but because it is a resource that either needs to be used, and thus strengthened, or lowered. We want to strengthen it. The left is pleased that the government is increasing the appropriations for the police, but we believe there is a need for further reinforcement. In its alternative budget, the Left has focused on increasing the presence of visible police in Oslo streets, among others. to combat rape. There's something strange about it: we know that the visible police in the streets work, but we choose to give it priority. After the debate here yesterday on rape, it is also strange that we do not dare to be more offensive. We in the Left have chosen to set up our own rape unit in Kripos, as the Rape Committee recommended, and as we have not yet seen that the Ministry of Justice has taken up properly. The left has cut some posts in the Ministry of Justice's area, and I would like to make a few comments on one – the Data Storage Directive. Left cutter 13.3 million. for the introduction of the EU Data Storage Directive. The left, as you know, was opposed to this directive being introduced in Norway, and we therefore do not want to give additional funds to implement it. As we are not in the committee, I finally mention that the Left will support the proposals No. 1 and 3 from the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e586	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e589	In connection with the 22nd July statements in Stortinget on 10 November, the leader of the Left said: ‘I expect a clear admission that we as a nation failed. The most important thing a country can do is to protect its inhabitants, and we couldn't do that." However, in the alternative budget of the Left, we see little to strengthen the tools of the police and prosecution authorities to detect and solve serious crime, by removing the appropriations for the Data Storage Directive and the DNA register. How does this relate?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e601	I fully agree with the leader of the Left, Trine Skei Grande, that it was the systems that failed on 22 July. Step Skei Grande has not been concerned that individuals should be scapegoats. It's the systems that failed, and the systems we can do better. I am not familiar with the question that the representative here asks, that we do not agree to build up the systems. On the contrary, there's something left to do all the time. With regard to the Data Storage Directive, I hardly think the representative here once is of the opinion that if we store enough data, we will be able to prevent any crime that Norway is facing. The Data Storage Directive takes away individual freedoms. I do not think there is any reason why we should grant money to store data on the citizens who are then to the degrees of intervention of the individual. I am of those who believe that my private correspondence should remain private, as long as I am not suspected of anything criminal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e608	The representative Abid Q. Raja and his party have clearly been concerned with combating violence against women – particularly rape. This applies to both those who are committed within the home’s four walls — or among friends — and those who are committed outside. It's affordable, but there's something that's not hanging in the hop here. The size agreement is that a DNA register is a good tool, for example for: to be able to combat rape — not least rape. Then I'm going to give the representative Abid Q. Raja the opportunity once to explain how on the one hand they can be concerned with fighting rapes, and on the other hand cut 30 million. kr in the DNA registration bet.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e615	The left supports the DNA reform and of course agrees that DNA is an effective tool for the resolution of crimes. However, we believe that the register has gone beyond what is necessary, and we are concerned that citizens are still being registered and monitored. We therefore want a somewhat more limited register than the majority want, and have consequently cut something in the appropriations for DNA analyses. So I would like to thank the representative Chaudhry for giving some credit to the Left in combating violence against women. I want to send it back to the representative Chaudhry, who has also been a lead figure to put the search light on this. When it comes to combating rape, it's about a lot more than DNA records. It's about attitudes towards women, it's about the assignment of boys in Norway, it's about new citizens coming, who are going to get involved in what we in Norway know. Here we can do a lot more. This is where the government has done a little bit. I have sent an invitation to the former Minister of Justice and also did it here yesterday to the current Minister of Justice, and I look forward to cooperating on that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e624	I have to say I am somewhat surprised that the Left does not want to grant the necessary funds to run attempts on electronic adjournment. There is, of course, an alternative criminal reaction that provides an opportunity not least to continue to be able to work and have their home. So I have to ask the Left's representative here, why is it better to put people in prison? I also want to add: is this better privacy, if that's what the Left has in mind? Then I want to add that if I was doomed, I know what I would choose. I would therefore also like to ask the Left's representative here what he would choose – sail if the question is certainly theoretical.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e629	I assume that the representative who asks the question has a safe and safe home in which he can live, and therefore would rather zone there, if he would come in the situation that he was convicted of anything. That's not the reality of very many others. The left is pleased that the government is trying different measures to reduce the pay queue, but we believe that home sonarism with electronic control is breaking with important principal aspects of the criminal system. The possibility of home reconciliation creates, first of all, as I say, a kind of class justice. It is important not to forget that some in Norway do not actually have a home suitable for home zoning, and many others have a much better home than others. Secondly, home soning with an electronic link will cause the relatives of the sentence to become involved in the punishment in an unlucky way. I would like to stress that electronic link will never replace obliging human relations, which are absolutely essential for successful rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e640	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e643	The government has long invested in security and preparedness. For example, next year we will be adding. up to one of the largest investments ever in social security: the development of a new nationwide digital emergency network. This investment, plus a reinforced commitment to police and prosecution authorities, provides a good basis for further strengthening security and preparedness. I would also like to thank you for the concern expressed by this House to the staff of the Ministry of Justice. The terrorist attacks on Ut Island and the government quarter of July 22 are still open to many. So far, we don't have a full overview of the entire sequence of events. For the government, it has been important that our response to the attacks is to rehabilitate and strengthen democracy, while strengthening security and preparedness. Security must be the foundation of democracy. The task of the Oslo Police District Emergency Team is to protect the community from serious crime. The response rate shall be strengthened next year. We also want to strengthen the police helicopter service, so that the Oslo police can hire a helicopter, set up three new crews, together with six new year's work and strengthen preparedness. In addition, military preparedness has been restored in the Defense Helicopter Quadron on Rygge. The Bell helicopters that could support the police with transportation on request. In addition, the government has started work on facilitating the use of the Sea King rescue helicopters by police personnel in time-critical situations. It is important for the response time that we ensure that some of our most operational response forces get better facilities. Therefore, the government is now giving priority to planning the establishment of a new police emergency centre in Oslo, with a view to bringing together the police helicopter service, the emergency team and the dog service in Oslo police district. We will also increase the allocation of the Police Security Service. The increase shall be directed towards investments in an advanced open network search engine, in addition to increased capacity and several years' reconnaissance and lifeguard services. From 2005 to 2012, the PST budget has been increased by a nominal increase of more than 80 pst. The government has given PST better equipment and methods, such as space listening, communication control and base station search. All of this has been to help us have a security service that can carry out our social mission, namely to protect the community from terror and serious crime. An external review of the resource situation in the PST will be carried out, giving us the best possible basis for future consideration of budget proposals for the service. The Ministry of Justice is now working on the scheme, and the government will come back to this as soon as possible. Since the government joined, we have taken responsibility for launching large, necessary investments in security and preparedness, such as the development of new emergency networks and the acquisition of new rescue helicopters. Emergency networks are being deployed in the police districts around Oslo. In the summer we received a unanimous decision to build it up throughout the country. In the budget, we are now proposing to increase the allocation to Emergency Networks by 1.5 billion. kr. This means that the further establishment of this crucial infrastructure is well under way. Emergency networks will strengthen the capacity of society to combat organised crime and to deal with major accidents, natural disasters and possible terrorist threats. The Government also proposes to increase the allocation of the rescue helicopter standby to ensure further progress in the project in the acquisition of new rescue helicopters and to keep current Sea King helicopters operational until new helicopters are in place. The acquisition of new rescue helicopters is a significant investment in social security and preparedness in Norway. If the Storting follows the government’s recommendation, we will significantly improve the capacity of the rescue helicopter service to handle societal tasks such as search, rescue, air ambulances and other important tasks. Good infrastructure is important for safety. Well so important is sufficient and competent personnel. The biggest challenge that this government inherited from the Bondevik II government in the justice sector was probably the lack of people in the police and civil servants' seats. That is why we have implemented a required strengthening of the police by providing larger budgets, more students and more staff. We've doubled the recording at the Police College and in the last two years we've recorded the record 720 students. That level is continuing in 2012, while we are proposing to increase the allocation to the Police College. In every budget in the last few years, we have put in extra means of pay, which makes it possible to hire new graduates from the Police College. Next year, we will facilitate the creation of more than 300 new year's works in the police department, of which 202 will be for those who leave the Police College next summer. In Oslo, the newly created investigation unit is continued after 22 July with 55 years' work, while 40 years' work is to help ensure that other police tasks do not get damaged during the investigation. In 2012, we're expected to spend about 30 billion dollars. in total for the justice sector. About 13 billion. kr shall be used by police and prosecution authorities. In the future, we need to focus on the correct use of resources. I am concerned about the quality of the services provided, and that we need to get the most police force out of every single penny. For this reason, the government has announced a broad-based performance reform in the police during this large-scale period. I am pleased with the articles today that have also highlighted the need for this focus on quality of service. One aspect of this work will be to look at police work methodology and the capacity of the agency to use new technologies. In the budget, we propose to ensure the necessary progress in renewing the ICT systems in the police. The Ministry of Justice and Police will change the name of the Ministry of Justice and Defence from the New Year. The Ministry will be provided with new resources and organisational changes are also relevant. The aim of such changes in structures and working methods must be to ensure the whole focus on improvement work, better performance and quality at all stages. We have to follow the developments in the threat picture and adapt the policy and the way we work, after that. We need to ensure that the overall resources for preparedness and crisis management are used in the best possible way for society. That is why the government has announced a closer cooperation between police and defence. Among other things, the defence will go through the aid instructions and see if the procedures for the defence assistance to the police can be further simplified. The role of defence in the overall preparedness will be an important topic both in the forthcoming long-term plan of defence and in the subsequent communication to the United Kingdom from the Ministry of Justice on social security. The government is committed to seeing the whole of the criminal case chain. When the police have received several annual works and resolve several cases, we are dependent on having courts with good enough procedural capacity and sufficient accumulators and staff in the criminal justice system. Our courts are among Europe's most effective, and so we want it to continue. That is why we propose to increase the allocation of legal certainty by the courts in the context of the implementation of the Data Storage Directive, strengthen the operation of the Supreme Court and increase the remuneration of the Land Change Judges. We have a criminal code based on settlement with meaningful content. Next year, we will continue to invest in alternative housing and keep the pressure on work on housing transfers. The whole criminal chain also includes care for the victims. The government will strengthen victim management, both in order to reduce the length of proceedings for applications pending, and because more people will apply for compensation for victims after 22 July. In conclusion, I would like to mention that the government has arranged for non-governmental organisations to be central contributors and complements to public rescue services. Therefore, they have received a double grant, an insurance scheme, a better reimbursement scheme and priority shall be given to participating in rescue operations if this does not go beyond quality. I think it is gratifying that the majority of the financial committee proposes to strengthen the funding of NGOs in the rescue services by 5 million. in addition to the Government's proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e688	It opens for line chord shifts.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e691	We have heard today that representatives from a party representing the government, the Central Party, are provoked – powerfully provoked, because some police officers operate and reorganize and shut down the Länsmannskontoret and change the county structure. State Secretary Moland Pedersen earlier suggested that perhaps further structural changes should now be awaited until the outcome reform comes to Stortinget. Does the Council of State share the provocation expressed by the Central Party? And does the Council have any intention of notifying the police officers that now all restructuring will stop until the results reform is achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e698	There is a great deal of freedom in the individual police districts, individual police officers, to use resources as they see fits best in relation to the priorities given by the central government. However, the issue has been addressed in the governance dialogue with the Police Directorate, with a view to ensuring that police officers do not go beyond these frameworks, and that account is also taken of the fact that within a reasonably short period of time a communication on the reform of results will be presented which will also address the necessary structural issues. So on this question, it's suggested that we take the important questions in the right turn and order.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e705	Thanks for the answer. I'm not going to challenge the Council of State to give any guarantees, as the former Minister of Justice did, and as the Prime Minister has actually done: to guarantee the police students jobs when they're done. This has been a major part of today's debate: how are you to ensure that those who have graduated have a safe job to do, and that they do not choose alternative careers once they have received the education that is so important and that is a resource that we all need? As we all agree, towards 2020, we are going to have two police operatives and women per 1,000 inhabitants. That means we have to have at least 6,500 new ones. Measured against population trends and the new forecasts here: Do you think you can do what you want to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e717	I am well acquainted with the report Police against 2020, and I am also well aware that this government has worked well for many years to ensure that the objectives that lie there are met. I think it is important to stress that there is a large aftermath from the former Bondevik governments that has been quite demanding to refill. So once we've doubled the student intake at the Police College and employed several civilians, and also made a separate special agreement with the civil servants' organisations, it's not only been to fill the gap that the bourgeois governments actually made bigger, but also to provide the best possible basis for the future with a view to meeting the objective set out in that report.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e724	This is due, inter alia, to: that the previous government – not the Bondevik government, but its own government – took a two-year break with regard to the increase in the admission to the Police College that then Minister of Justice Dørum started. For two years, a rest break was taken. The question to Bøhler and Chaudhry remained unanswered. Then perhaps the Council of State can answer that: what will the police coverage be in 2012, based on the budget adopted later today? Question two: Can the Council explain why she is in principle against the partial private use of GENA being able to analyse DNA, while in principle she is in order for the whole private ownership of Ibas to be able to analyse the content of PCs and cell phones for the police, which is much more incriminating and more personal use than leaving DNA analyses to a partial private time company?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e739	There were many questions in a short time. In terms of DNA analyses, I'm happy to say that the residues are degraded and that the capacity is good. I think it is special to take a supplier discussion from this pulpit, and I realize that from being a question of capacity, it is now a question of whether you have to check the quality of the system you have already used and had confidence in. As far as the budget for next year is concerned, it provides the basis for a greater number of new police posts, and it is also important to look at how we can have a better impact on the funds already in the establishment. There is also some background to our intention to present the Communication on the reform of results.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e748	I want to go back to where we started this round, with the local restructuring in the police districts. Based on geography – given where the Council of State comes from – there is at least a very good foundation for healthy peasant wealth, she should be occupied by visible police in the districts. In reply to the representative Sandberg in the city, the Council of State was clear that matters are now pending in the Police Director's office. But the challenge is that both the police districts and the POD have quite a lot of freedom today, and pending the reform of the results, many of the proposals to the police officers are being put on hold, and then the process of economic savings in the police district is actually being carried out because they need to re-prioritize resources. And then it's going to be very difficult in the next round to stop the reorganisation politically, because much of it is actually carried out in the economic, at least a tendency. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]] How big politically, or...
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e753	I wish myself the best possible police work out of every single penny, and I also want a visible police force, both in cities and districts. I think it is necessary to review the work process. I think it's necessary to see if the problems are solved as efficiently as possible, whether we have administrative arrangements that we can change and thus actually convert into more visible police. I think there are opportunities for conversion that can be difficult to implement in the short run, but that in the long run will ensure better police services. We need to go through this widely, and that is something of the background for notifying the reform of results. I think that can provide better police services, both in the Setes Valley and in our cities, and that must be the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e758	The words Jens Stoltenberg chose after July 22 are very important: «More democracy, more openness, but never naivety.» I am concerned about whether this is followed up in practice, and have a concrete challenge for the Minister of Justice: In VG 22 November we could read that the PST sent a secret letter to the Minister of Justice, where they are asking for new terrorist laws. The communication director of the PST confirms to the VG that the PST has sent letters proposing changes to legislation and methodology, and the communication director also confirms that they have sent a letter on the barriers between the PST and the Defence E-service. We in the Left would like to debate the home of the PST, the methodology, the resources and the priorities, but the debate must be open, not through secret letters. My question to the Minister of Justice is therefore: Will the Minister of Justice publish the letters from the PST, or is she behind the PST leader who is now acting in violation of Jens Stoltenberg's promises of more transparency?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e764	I believe that the question can be answered very briefly, if that is the letter I am thinking of. I think it's already published and that it was confirmed by the PST a few days ago.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e769	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e772	The government has submitted a good government budget for 2012. It is a budget for security and well-being. The budget has been characterised as a tight budget. This is necessary given the times of economic unrest around us. Especially important is a tight budget for our export-oriented business that will have problems with large increases in interest rates and exchange rates. It goes without saying that a tight government budget means that there are not large increases in operating budgets in the various sectors, either in the justice sector. So the government is putting forward a government budget that provides security for jobs and thus for our common well-being. At the same time, the government is presenting a budget for justice for common security and well-being. The Justice Budget has many and important stakes. I can mention new emergency networks, continued record high admission at the Police College, escalation of the number of children's homes – this time in Ålesund – strengthening the system of compensation for victims of violence, strengthening the PST and the police's preparedness, new activity building in Oslo prison, and extending the system of electronic compensation. These are all initiatives that will contribute to more security and well-being. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, I am so fortunate to have the responsibility of the rapporteur for criminal matters in budgetary terms. Over the course of these good and well two years, I have gained a relatively good understanding of how the criminal justice system works. After many visits around the criminal community, I would say that I am impressed by all the good and targeted work done in our long-term country. The size has been granted over 2 billion. kr to the Criminal Service since we got a new government in 2005. The appropriations have mainly been used to expand settlement capacity and improve the content of the implementation of penalties. The capacity of 870 places has been a huge lift. The provision of training for convicted offenders has improved, the health services in prison offer a good deal, the Nav in prison has delivered good results, and 25 repatriation coordinators are now being recruited to coordinate the work done under the responsibility of the criminal services of the other institution. These are the government parties very pleased with. The Rusmes in several prisons, drug programmes with judicial control and electronic redress are new measures that we in the government parties are proud to have implemented. And we have faith that all these measures will help to improve the content of compensation for those convicted, so that they are better brought back to a life without crime. Suffering if it has happened very well in criminal care, there is still much that can get better. I have registered through my visits that the engaged and competent employees could have done more if the operating budgets had been more liberal. The signals from the employees, after many years of high coverage in prison, are that they are getting worn out. Next week the members of the Norwegian Fengsels- und Friåmorgsorgsförbund will conduct a political strike. They require better staffing of criminal services, both in the interests of their own security and in order to be able to follow-up on the criminal health notification Penalties that work best. In order to plan and meet the challenges of criminal justice, overall planning is very important. I am therefore pleased that it now appears that this crew analysis – and the crew plan, together with the capacity plan – is soon to be completed, so that we can get this overall picture and think in the long term. Then we know what it takes to succeed. I will end by taking the opportunity to thank former Minister of Justice Storberget for his genuine commitment and great heart for the very care of the criminal justice system. I hope and believe that our new Minister of Justice, Grete Faremo, will follow up on this in the same track.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e789	In the financial debate last week, I had a broader article on the totality of the Judicial Budget of the Advance Party. I am now going to carefully link some comments to the budget of the courts. Earlier in the debate today, we have heard the representative Jan Bøhler of the Workers' Party say that the courts are getting a lot of pressure after the increased investigation efforts of the police. We have also heard State Council Faremo say that it is a wish of the government that we should have effective courts. It is strange, then, that the government in the budget for 2012 — and also in the budget for 2013 — signals cutbacks in the budgets of the courts. This is remarkable in comparison with the fact that, after quite considerable pressure from both the courts and the opposition in the revised 2010 report, we had added 15 million. kr in the budget, and then in the 2011 budget for a further 40 million. Just in order to recruit several judicial jurisprudences, so that after the increase in particular civil cases, we could get things off faster – and get efficiency throughout the criminal justice chain after the police budget had been significantly increased in recent years. That is why I hope that someone from the government parties in this debate can explain the logic of this policy. I think there are very few who understand the logic of this kind of budgetary policy. During the hearing of the Judicial Committee earlier in the autumn of 2012, with regard to the 2012 budget, the Court of Justice gave clear signals that, if this budget is adopted, we are faced with a quite significant downturn in the courts, not least among judicial bodies. When we get such clear signals from a department, and yet we choose to move on with this in the Stortinget, we can ask ourselves what is really the point of the Stortingen budget hearings – when the government's representatives are obviously not willing to take this up. Dwellings in 2012–2013 are very unfortunate, while the Court of Justice has now presented its financial plan for 2013–2016, where they signal a significant resource need in the coming years. Among other things, 191 million are signalled for the district courts. kr in additional need for 2013. It is clear that if these wishes are to be fulfilled, the government will have to make a significant appeal to the courts in the future. We need to get rid of the cases that are pending in the courts in order for us to have an effective criminal chain – and not least because we have to get civil cases away quickly. The courts are not just justice policy. I would argue that an effective court is also important industrial policy. It is important for business and civil parties in a country that we have a court system that takes care of matters, so that cases should not lie in the courts in dispute longer than necessary. There is a need for significant investment in ICT and technical solutions, for the construction of new premises in some of our cities, for ensuring the recruitment situation of the land change courts and, not least, for the implementation of the new law on land change.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e804	This is an economic concern in Europe. Many people experience increasing uncertainty for work, for homes and for homes. Therefore, it is important that we have a government budget in Norway that provides the basis for mitigating this uncertainty. For this reason, the Right has provided an alternative budget that is more secure through knowledge and competitiveness than the government. That is why justice policy is also important. And not least, that's why the Right is concerned that the police coverage has gone down to 21 out of 27 police districts under this government, and that we are now seeing signs that the settlement queues are growing. I can also add that the Council of State can't answer if the police coverage goes up next year. I can also see that the Council of State cannot draw the ideological dividing line here either: private companies are used to disperse computers and mobile phones, while private, partial privacy, DNA laboratories are not allowed to use them to make DNA analyses. The financial turmoil in Europe can quickly result in increased crime and extremism. With today's open borders we must be prepared that this can also reach us here faster and to a greater extent than before. In this perspective, Right is pleased that the Storting is gathered behind Meldning.St. 7 for 2010–2011, Fight against organised crime. Crime is evolving towards becoming more frontierless, organized, advanced and brutal. With this big message, we have jointly provided a good basis for meeting developments. But we must not believe that this is what we are doing. This is a continuously changing landscape. Therefore, the Right has proposed to strengthen the police operating budget by 400 million. kr, of which strengthen efforts against organised crime by 10 million. kr. This is, on our part, part of the strengthening of the coordinating body, which has as its main task the coordination of police action in this important area. Feedback from the police underlines the important role that this body plays in the overall fight against organised crime. Another area of borderless crime is the growing threat of cybercrime and cyberattacks. This type of digital threat affects both individuals, businesses, organisations and nation states. In the Right’s view, efforts in prevention, detection and incident management, information sharing, intelligence and investigation of incidents in this area need to be facilitated. In addition, the Right will point to the increasing importance of securing critical infrastructure. The right requires a stronger government commitment to combat the ever-increasing threats of this crime. I would also like to address another topic on which the Right attaches great importance to its policy of preventing crime. Voluntary organisations are making a very social contribution to criminal justice in their efforts to prevent new crime and reduce the level of crime committed by former convicted offenders. Voluntary organisations represent a very important addition to the work done by the state and the municipalities with the return of former criminals to a non-crime-free life. The right will therefore increase the appropriations for this work by 5 million. kr. There are many former criminals who can thank these voluntary organizations for coming out of a vicious circle of crime and intoxication. It is the Right's hope that ideological allergy to private solutions will not prevent the important contribution of these voluntary organisations to re-establishing vulnerable individuals after settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e823	I would also like to include myself in the range of representatives who have thanked the Ministry of Justice and the staff there for the efforts they have put into the work since 22 July. The budget we are discussing today provides the framework for an active and comprehensive fight against crime. We will continue to strengthen and improve efforts for more security and less crime. Crimes shall be promptly resolved and offenders punished and rehabilitated. Providing security in society is an important welfare issue and a major public responsibility. After the summer events, probably many have felt that the sense of security was weakened. Many children in particular think that Norway is no longer as safe as they thought. We know that after the attacks on 11 September 2001, there was a marked increase in the number of anxious children in the United States. We might have to assume that this is happening in Norway too. NRK's Super New Team a few weeks ago, one thing about this. There they visit a 5th grade from the Drama that has spent a school hour drawing something they were afraid of. Most of the drawings were attached to the events on July 22. A guy said he couldn't sleep at night because he was thinking about the terrorist. We politicians have an important responsibility for making children – and adults, for that matter – feel secure. I believe that the government is taking this seriously by proposing to increase the overall appropriations for police and preparedness by 2.2 billion. kr. The budget for the police and prosecution will be increased by 104 million. kr for the purpose of investigating and handling the terrorist attacks against the Government Quartet and the Utøya. In order for us to feel safe, it is important to have rapid reactions and punishments that work, for those who commit criminal acts. Then it's essential that we have a legal system that works well, an independent legal system. The courts in Norway are among the most effective in Europe, and for most types of cases in the courts, the average duration of proceedings is reduced. The Government proposes to increase the appropriation to the courts by 21.9 million. to enhance legal certainty in the implementation of the Data Storage Directive, to enhance the operation of the Supreme Court and to increase the remuneration of the Land Change Judges. From 2006 to 2011, the appropriations allocated to the courts and the conflict councils have increased by approximately EUR 15 billion. Two hundred and thirty-five million. kr. We know that the situation in some courts has been tough, and there is every reason to give credit to them who every day do an important job in the administration of the courts and in the various courts. We see that the number of cases has continued to increase this year, and that was also the reason why the court administration asked for an additional grant over two years, which they also received. This grant is of 40 million. kr over two years, with full-year effect. This has produced results. It is important that we also look at this allocation further. As I said, the budget for the Land Change Judgments is also increased by 10 million. kr. It is intended to increase the pay of the land change courts, and this is particularly important in order to invest in the recruitment of this profession. In conclusion, I want to say something about what I think is the crime that creates the most insecurity for most people – violence in close relationships. This is not a private matter, but a significant social problem. A study carried out by the Norwegian Women’s Sanitation Association shows that out of 1 000 respondents answered 84 pst. that they do not believe that anyone they know or anyone in their circle has been subjected to violence. However, a 2005 survey shows that one in four women will experience sexual violence during their lifetime. That means that we all know someone who is subjected to violence by someone close to them. Research shows that women seeking the emergency centre offer have a much lower quality of life than other women of the same age and that violence poses a significant health risk. Children who grow up with violence in close relationships experience insecurity and suffering and are affected in different ways. Therefore, it is particularly important that we put in place the eighth children’s home in Ålesund during the next year. Violence in close relationships takes in its ultimate consequence life. All use of violence is contrary to Norwegian law and an attack on fundamental human rights, such as the right to rule over their own lives. I am very pleased that there has been a big message about violence in close relations over the next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e853	Now I could have made a five-minute post by standard arrangement in relation to the budget, but I don't want to do that. I have walked a little in myself and thought: what has my party done in terms of prevention in the years that have been? What has my party promoted by proposals that have been voted down, that might have made a difference? I am perfectly aware that in the light of the afternoon after what happened this summer, it is very easy to point out things that one should have adopted, but at least I want to know for my own part that we have tried. In connection with the Vulnerability message, we had, among other things: the following proposal: ‘The Government requests the establishment of the National Security Directorate under the Office of the Prime Minister.’ And on the other hand, ‘The Government is asking for a thorough investigation into the appropriateness of the command relations between the police and the defence in relation to the various serious situations facing society.’ In the setting for the police role message: ‘The decision asked the Government to establish a model based on a response time of 15, 30, 45 minutes and one hour, respectively. Including costs and organisational consequences of the use of the different response times.’» And in the same setting: ‘The Government asks the Government to put in place a mechanism for the approval by Stortinget of the appointment of the Head of Police Security Service and National Attorney.’ [[PST]] I mean, budget-inner. S. No 4 for 2003-2004: ‘The Government, in cooperation with the Police Directorate, is asked to draw up a plan to equip police cars with modern communication equipment in the near future. Experience must be gained in such a plan from our neighbouring country.’ I mean, budget-inner. S. No 4 for 2007-2008: ‘The Government asks the Government to consider launching a police study based on the model of the Defence Study. A wide-ranging sample should be set up mandated to carry out a thorough analysis of key national and international developments affecting the tasks and future needs of the Norwegian police.’» I mean, budget-inner. S. No 4 for 2008-2009: ‘The government is asking for a separate case in which the total need for staff in the justice sector is assessed.’ Int. 6 S for 2010–2011: ‘The government is asked to provide a timetable for the 2011 revised national budget for the time when the needs of civil protection will be met in line with the St.meld. [[2007-2008]] No This And in the same setting: ‘The government is asking the government to intensify the process of joint location of police special services, helicopter services and police high school in the Oslo area.’ I mean, budget-inner. S No 4 for 2008-2009: ‘The government is asking the government to consider launching a police study based on the model of the Defence Study’ – in line with the proposal we have made in the past. Int. 6 S for 2010–2011: ‘These members find it irresponsible that the police helicopter has been put on the ground for periods of this year due to the withdrawal of funds that have gone to ICT.’ This was said in 2010. And on the other hand, ‘This damages the operation of the police and is unnecessary resource savings in the Norwegian police. These members believe that at least one helicopter must be available at all times and thus allocate 8 million. extra dollars to the police in Oslo in their alternate budget. These members want to establish an investment budget for the police in Oslo and refer to the reasons given under the corresponding chapter. [[new post]] 440.’» In the light of the after-clock, I am aware that it may seem terribly easy for me to point this out. It's not supposed to point your nose or ask why you didn't do what we said. But it is a question of the budget and the issues that we have in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, that what we vote for, or what we vote for, actually has consequences. Have we learned anything from the story? This gives cause for reflection.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e928	If you have done something wrong, you must be punished for it. Of course, the punishment should be preventative – it should be a punishment – that is, doing something wrong has a consequence. But there's also going to be a chance to make up for yourself. After the sentence is completed, you have to get another chance. It's very central in Right Policy that everyone should have a real new chance of moving on in life. Nevertheless, we know that for very many people who have served a punishment, there is no chance of getting on real. There is a combination of addiction, violence problems, mental illness, lack of schooling, lack of work experience, poor finances, lack of social networks and housing problems that together make the repetition rate high, and that many who have started on a criminal track never get out of it. In many ways, many — at least too many — end up on a barbed hill getting out of prison. Unfortunately, there is a great deal of review between the Nav offices in Norway and Norwegian prisons. Still, we know very little about this relationship. I want to encourage the Council of State to provide better figures and to strengthen the insight and research on how many people are looking for Nav, how many former criminals are in the Nav system, and how they get help. What we know about is what actually works. As in very many other areas, the workline is worth highlighting. In a survey that took place a few years ago, the Central Statistical Office showed that the sentence that gets a job after the penalty has been imposed has 63 pst. less likely to commit new crimes than those who do not get a job. The study was the first of its kind in the country to illustrate, of course, both the problem of relapse crime — that about every four who are released, go to prison again within three years — and that work is a possible way out. But it assumes that the systems are talking. Too often in the public sector, there is no communication between our major systems such as prison, criminal services, the Nav offices, municipalities and health services. It helps very little to be told to ‘stand up in the morning’ if you do not get help with your trouble. It helps very little to be informed that you have made up for prison sentences if you do not get a new chance to get back into work. Therefore, it is important to do as right: to strengthen the voluntary forces. It is also important to strengthen criminal justice. I note with concern, as a member of the Labour and Social Committee, that the government cuts in number of places, for example. on CRUS, even if the challenges increase. As in many other areas, the government has introduced a guarantee – a return guarantee. We also know this technique from other fields, such as the Youth Guarantee and the long-term unemployment guarantee. For all of them, the word ‘guarantee’ does not in itself guarantee political follow-up or results. The use of the word ‘guarantee’ in this context would hardly stand in the meeting of the Marketing Act, to put it that way. I also want to take a little visit to the police situation. In Telemark, where I come from, we've been so lucky that we imported a State Secretary and made her a police officer. But it hasn't done anything for the police situation. If you look at the police situation in Telemark, it is still this way, especially in Grenland where most people live, that there are fewer policemen per capita today than there were three to four years ago. One summer ago, there was a situation in which the city area of Grenland, where there are 100,000 people, had one police patrol at work during the weekends – one police patrol! This means that if someone was killed in Langesund at the same time as an invasion of Porsground, it was not possible to be both places at the same time. Then, not only on behalf of a former State Secretary, who is now the police chief, but on behalf of people in Telemark, I will ask the Minister of Justice why she can't say anything clear and clear about the police crew next year. One thing is to point to macro figures in the budget, but it must also be said that an increased budget will lead to more policemen and not a decrease in police per capita, as we have seen up to now.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e950	The Council of State indicated in its statement that the government is taking responsibility for making major necessary investments in social security and preparedness, such as the development of new emergency networks and the acquisition of new rescue helicopters. One and a half billion. kr in allocation for 2012 means that the deployment of emergency networks can now start domestically. Everyone is coming, as is the case here, and now the trip has come to the police districts of Hedmark, Gudbrandsdalen and West Uppland. Until recently, I was on the Health and Care Committee and was involved in the work on the framework for the new Cooperation Reform. Also new emergency networks are so absolutely about better interaction, and in this case, within and between the three emergency services police, fire services and health services. That's how we ensure that people who are affected by accidents and crises get help faster, and when needed, better coordinated help. The new equipment, which is guaranteed against snooping, is also important in the fight against organised crime and terrorism. New emergency networks make Norway safer. A unanimous Judicial Committee also calls for solutions to be found which also allow voluntary emergency services operators access to the new emergency network. We all agree on the great importance of the efforts of the many volunteers in the rescue work, and therefore there is a need to work differently to improve the framework conditions of volunteering in the future. This spirit of virtue is gold worth and must be stimulated. And not least, it is important to maintain and further develop the good competence of these organisations. I am therefore very pleased that next year, NGOs in the rescue services will receive an increase of 5 million. kr. Here we really get a lot left for the money. The acquisition of new rescue helicopters with everything that belongs to them is to be dealt with here in Stortinget on Tuesday of the week. 16 new, modern all-weather search and rescue helicopters to mainland Norway represent a very important lift for better rescue services related to several important societal tasks. Social security and preparedness are issues of cross-sectoral action and close partnership with volunteering. In the summer of 2011, there were real challenges to the horrific events on the Utja and the government quarter, but also to floods and associated races and problems when the mobile network failed. Thorough processes are in place for us to learn and improve where necessary. The risk and threat picture is complex and demanding, but we have to master it as far as possible. Once again, we have seen the importance of civil protection for crisis management and our preparedness. It is very good that the civil defense now gets 30 million. through an additional allocation to the current year's budget for investment in equipment, in particular input clothing. I register that the Right Party and the Advance Party agree to say that this is too little money, but at the same time I register that the Right Party does not grant five cents more than what we add up to. I would also like to mention the important role of Homeland Protection in our preparedness, and I believe that the response time of Homeland Protection in order to be able to set up when it is necessary needs to be emphasised when setting up future structures related to HV districts. One of the very first things our new Minister of Justice did was to visit the Kripos data-crime department. She announced an increased investment in information security, and it was accompanied by money. This is a very important and correct signal from the Council of State. My soul is well aware of the Norwegian Information Security Centre, NorSIS, in my own home town of Gjøvik, which is carrying out a comprehensive preventive information security work. NorSIS will now also be given responsibility for the service slettmeg.no. The University of Gjøvik, together with NorSIS, and in cooperation with the Defence Department at Jørstadmoen at Lillehammer, today has one of Europe's top knowledge environments in information security with learning forces and students from almost every corner of the world. Neither NorSIS nor the College is going down the road to undertake several important tasks in this field. As individuals or employees, as well as in private businesses as in public administration, we need to be aware of and understand the risk of what we can face from malicious software and attacks. It is important that we coordinate state intervention in this area as best we can, and here, as elsewhere, prevention is smart. 85 pst. Norwegian enterprises employ fewer than five people, many of whom have a lot of interesting knowledge and information and are therefore vulnerable to attack. Information security is an essential part of our preparedness and social security work. In conclusion, I will give homage to all good forces that every day make an effort to prevent crises, and when that happens, to deal with crises and events in our country as best as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e976	First, I would like to say that I have followed the debate and that it has been an interesting debate. But I find reason to question why in the world there is so much difference in reality between the police officers and the police in the districts and what it may seem like you're in the hands of central authorities. This is particularly true when the Minister of Justice in his speech earlier today showed how many new police positions you could have – not that you should, but that you could – under the budget. But the feedback from the districts doesn't depend on how many posts we're going to set up in our police district, but how many more jobs we have to keep up to meet the actual costs. It has unfortunately become so that it looks like this has become a gap between what has to do with understanding centrally, also at the Police Directorate, and the reality that meets the local policeman and woman in the districts. I'm going to use an example from my own area, which is Sunnmore Police District. Sunnmore police districts have a police coverage of approx. 1 per 1 000 — far, far from the target set — related to the average number of police officers per 1 000 inhabitants. When you look at the size of the district – you look at fjord crossings, opportunities for closed roads because of race, opportunities for the fact that the ferries stop going to a given time – and also look at how low the police coverage actually is, there is reason to ask whether the government has taken this up. In addition, when you see that some people out in the district are actually told to do their own thing when they're attacked, because you're out on a prisoner's transport, this says a little about how it's out in District Norway. In my own area, there are very large distances, a lot of ferries, that I've been in. It is even the case that if the police are going to check on the islands, the population knows, long before the police are there, that there is control, because the alert takes place long in advance. In addition, you can look at the cover attached to the police boat. At least one should think that Norway, with its coast, was well prepared in terms of boats, especially where you have lobsters, islands, prunes and large traffic. In this respect, I have repeatedly asked questions to the previous Minister of Justice, and I will now also challenge the current Minister of Justice. A short time ago, I asked how many police boats are operating on the Bergen-Trondheim section. The current Minister of Justice Knut Storberget could state the following: it is one. But it's only operational from the end of May to 1 September. In addition to that, it's zero -- I repeat zero -- operational police boats. Then it is easy to do this service in the district. Fortunately, the then Minister of Justice, on behalf of the government, said that this would be followed up in the mission paper, or the letter of assignment, to the Police Directorate. I expect the current Minister of Justice on behalf of the government to accept what has been said in the past, and that these things are now coming into place. The main challenge in this budget is that there are no funds linked to investments that adequately capture the needs of local police offices. This means that these posts are not becoming jobs, but they are vigilant to cover ICT expenditure, new police cars and other equipment. This is a cross of thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e987	Today we are debating a budget that is largely concerned with security, security in a broad sense, namely security for individuals, but also security for the nation. One of the safety factors concerns the safety of vulnerable groups. The government has an undisputed solid commitment to violence in close relationships. I'm proud of that. But today I want to talk about some of the groups that experience hate-motivated violence, including immigrants and homosexuals. Hat crime that targets people or groups based on who they are, or what they look like, does not only affect the individual victim. This type of crime also creates fear and insecurity for all with the same background and must therefore be handled with great seriousness by the police. This is why the government has, among other things, ensuring that the police record hate-motivated violence and that penalties for this type of crime are increased. But let me underline that hate-motivated violence should be prevented to a much greater extent rather than taking good, but repairing measures. The attitudes of Norwegian kindergartens and schools shape the adults of tomorrow. This has been taken seriously by the government and the Stortinge for example. manifest against bullying and increased appropriations for anti-discrimination organisations, precisely to help adults to develop tolerance, equivalency and respect for their fellow human beings. So it's important for me to say that we all have a responsibility for the tone in the Norwegian language, whether it's about the most used Norwegian shells in Norwegian school, or it's about generalising a whole group of people in their practice of politics. One is no better than the other. As a politician and a fellow human being, we have a responsibility for the agenda and the use of languages, whether they are debates in the Stortinget, good dinner parties or media. I will, perhaps untraditionally, quote Michael Jackson from Stortinget's pulpit – with the song "Man In The Mirror": ‘I’m Starting With The Man In The Mirror I’m Asking Him To Change His Ways And No Message Could Have Bone Any Clearer If You Wanna Make The World A Better Place Take A Look At Yourself, And Then Make A Change’ We have to start with ourselves. The hours after the attack on July 22, before the perpetrator was known, were used to spread hate propaganda against Muslim environments and individuals. That's when some of our attitudes come to the surface, attitudes that we, from the extreme blue to the extreme red, must stand together against. Storing and government can put in place good and offensive instruments in the fight against violence and the fight for an inclusive society, as we do. But at the end of the day, it will be each of us's duty to put the tone of the debate and take responsibility for how we affect our environment, the media and society. The fight against hate crime is not just about law paragraphs and investigations. It's about values. It's all about people being equally valuable, regardless of their skin color or sexual orientation. And it's about putting this very fundamental democratic principle high. Therefore, we will continue to have a high priority on matters that deal with this. Yesterday we had a similar debate, namely on rape; in yesterday's case on rape. I want to sum up that debate with one sentence: our responsibility is to learn a new generation of guys about bordering. There — and several other good measures against sexual abuse, such as a permanent rape group at Kripos — are under way by the current government and are also priorities in the budget. But I can't let myself say that this issue is also about attitudes that grow, and not just about law paragraphs and police resources. In a much-discussed report from Amnesty in 2007, every other man in Norway says that women who flirt openly are themselves responsible if they are sexually assaulted. The result is also supported by prominent policy makers. Let's be clear: it's never the victim's fault that an infringement is committed. To put it another way, it's always the perpetrator's fault when a sexual assault is perpetrated. Finally, I would like to say that the budget for justice is a forward-looking budget, which promotes the security of individuals and the nation. Then I hope that each of us will take responsibility for the language and attitudes beyond that, just so that we, as individuals, too, will promote security.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1041	For the Progress Party, the right of individuals to live in security and security is a fundamental right. That court believes most are of course in a modern society, but that court is challenged daily in Norway in 2011 and it has become worse since 2005. It is a challenge The Progress Party is deeply concerned about. In a modern and well-developed society like ours, unfortunately, there is cause for concern when the citizens' feelings and experiences of security and security are challenged. This gives cause for concern when citizens can feel too clearly about insecurity and uncertainty. Is the police coming? When's the police coming? Is the crime being investigated? Is a known perpetrator taken? Is a known perpetrator punished? Will convictions come out quickly when they are punished? Is the penalty in relation to the crime? Is the victim being taken care of? Unfortunately, the country's inhabitants have to ask themselves such questions. We're not going to have it that way. Questions such as this should not be necessary for the country's citizens to ask themselves. We must not have it that way either. The party of progress does not accept it either. The government doesn't do that either. In its political platform, the government says: ‘Crime creates insecurity. Providing social security is a welfare issue and a major public responsibility. Crimes shall be promptly resolved and offenders punished and rehabilitated.’ The Progress Party and the Government share the objectives of criminal policy far on the road, but there is a significant distance in reality, a significant distance in the pace of achieving and achieving the objectives and a significant distance not least in the use of tools to provide citizens with security and security. The advance party allocates 470 million. In addition to the government's budget for the police. Of this, 190 is million. kr own investment budget. Investments in equipment, in vehicles and in ICT will release operational resources. It gives new jobs and more police force. The increase in the budget proposed by the Progress Party will also facilitate a senior bet, so that more people do not choose to take early retirement. This gives more officials with a high level of competence and extensive experience. In addition, we are targeting several civilians to take on administrative responsibilities so that more police trainers can do operational out-of-office tasks. And in order to free up additional resources, the Progress Party will in the long term take structural action. Not only am I on behalf of the Progress Party concerned about the police situation in general. Some regions and regions are less than thinly manned. Hordaland and Bergen are among these. Last Tuesday, November 29, TV 2 showed another example. A taxi driver got a very dramatic ride on Stord night until the last Monday, when a passenger attacked him with a nail beam. He got in touch with the police, but they asked him to do it on his own. He said, “They told me that I had to get safe, because it could take some time before they could come.” The only police patrol that was at work to cover the three Western municipalities of Bømlo, Fitjar and Stord was engaged in a prisoner transport to Haugesund, miles away. Even the ambulance couldn't help, as long as the police were miles away. The chief of police in Haugaland and Sunnhordland police districts believes it is time to invest outside the big cities as well. ‘We note that this centralised effort has not benefited our police districts equally.’ This is what the police chief says in Haugaland and Sunnhordland police districts. He has a good and an important point, which requires action from the government. The Bergens newspaper reported on 1 November this year that the police in Bergen were catching the air and therefore dropped to assist after the raid. A patrol who hunted for detectives asked for help. The Operations Centre concluded that the priority was to be given to ongoing catch ventilation. The police officer says that the callout threshold is getting higher. ‘There is no doubt that there is pressure on resources and that we need to adapt the level of activity accordingly.’ He says this to the Bergensavisen on November 2. On 9 November, when asked about this incident, the Minister of Justice said: ‘Let me say before I start on my main response, that I am not satisfied with such a priority, nor with the police coverage.’ I don't think it's going to hold up with the new Minister of Justice; there's a need for a new policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1090	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1093	Last Thursday we adopted the framework for a good budget, a budget that takes into account both the turbulent economic situation in Europe and the need to ensure well-being. Today I will use my post to talk about the police – with a look at Follo. Follo police districts have undergone a reorganisation such as: This meant the closure of the Länsmannskontoret, so that one would release resources for other police work. I think it's always important to think about how to make the best use of resources. The efficiency of the public sector is an important objective. But the feedback from, among other things, Follo word managers are not as positive. The speakers in Follo, who helped create a common model, suggest that this model is not followed up. Among other things, they say that local police resources/visible police have not been followed up locally. There are smaller resources for prevention, and the police officer has not followed up the point of evaluating a police service in Enebak and the Nesodden municipalities, which are present. I think that we have to take this very seriously. When we get feedback that people feel insecure, we shouldn't feel it. That is why I am very pleased that the reorganisation will be evaluated in the first half of 2012. I think it is very important that we include in this evaluation the feedback from the citizens, from the municipalities and from the spokespersons on cooperation, prevention and visible police. Follo police districts have been underfunded since the conversion that the Bondevik II government did. It is time that we also evaluate the allocation requirements. Although Follo has as many inhabitants as Asker and Bærum police districts, and many of the same challenges, they are far less when it comes to allocation. The Minister of Justice has warned that award criteria should be evaluated. It's positive, and I hope it happens as soon as possible. When I've said all of that, I also have to say that everything is not as sad and gray. From 2006 onwards, the electoral and profit crime has been reduced by 25-30 pst. That's a very good result, and it's good for people in Follo. It's important that we also communicate that part. I have asked the police officer in Follo if the preventive work works equally well in all municipalities after the conversions. He answers that, in his opinion, it works better now than before the reorganisation, and that the cooperation between the police and the municipality is decisive for good results. He tries to install resources where the need is greater, and is less busy with the local boundaries. But to me, it looks like there's different perceptions of the reorganization. Therefore, it is unlikely that we now need to evaluate both the reform and the award criteria.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1110	My local newspaper, Tønsbergs Blad, has recently turned the spotlight on the police's resource situation. On the basis of several specific cases, the newspaper reports that for other and more important tasks, the police deprioritise theft of bicycles, lobster theft and other everyday crime, even though the suspicion goes in a certain direction and the perpetrators can even be recognized by the victims. When the police do not move to general everyday crime, the reason is always a lack of resources, which naturally raises a new question: what is the police really supposed to and must give priority to? Now, in the name of justice, it is said that the police in Westfold have almost halved the number of winning crimes over a seven-year period, and I fully understand that the police need to give priority. Nevertheless, every time the media documents the police's inability to handle single-pisods, and the sum of single-pisods is drawn as a pattern, there is an impression that in turn weakens the overall confidence of the police. Many suggest that many of those who today are exposed to common thefts and other everyday crime, simply leave it to the police not to bother with it, unless a report is necessary for insurance reasons. This creates a state of injustice in this area, with the danger of anyone being tempted to take the matter into their own hands. From 2005 to 2011, the budget for police and prosecution, as it is called, has increased from 8.2 billion. NOK 12,2 billion. kr, almost 50 pst. Next year, the police budget will increase by nearly 700 million. kr. Every year there are more police students, larger budgets and more police officers. Nevertheless, police officer Benedicte Bjørnland can tell that she has at any time between 25 and 35 unoccupied positions in the Westfold police district of a total of 486 years' work. One of the areas where police obviously do not use much force is combating work environment crime — a growing problem in Norwegian working life as a result of increasing labour migration. I'm not going to embroider this, but briefly mention that violation of the work environment law is not rarely related to human trafficking and pure mafia activities. Only exceptionally do we see that occupational health and safety reviews result in investigations, prosecutions and convictions. Rather, the rule is that the reports of the Labour Inspectorate are filed as a result of a lack of investigation capacity in the police. Consequently, greedy employers can continue to use foreign labour without any particular risk, which in itself is unsustainable because it seriously undermines Norwegian laws and regulations and Norwegian jobs. That is why I think it is absolutely right that we now strengthen the Labour Inspectorate and provide the Labour Inspectorate with sanctions.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1121	Today, little has been said about the pilot schemes that have been implemented in the Follo and Hordaland police districts. The police officer in Follo has told the East German newspaper that he is proud of the efforts his employees put into the job – and he really has every reason to do so. Follo Police District has undergone a major reorganisation project. The aim was initially good: more police force for the benefit of the population. The municipalities were promised that more preventive work would be done by the police. That is why they finally said yes to the project, with clear expectations of these promises. Unfortunately, these assumptions are not met. Reality is downsizing and reducing police coverage. The police officer in Follo is very clear – there has not been a single penny for the conversion processes. So it's not only the local politicians who've been tricked, but maybe the police themselves. The rapporteurs in Follo tried for a long time – and in vain – to get former Minister of Justice Storberget to discuss this matter. Instead, they gathered to the Storting for two meetings – also to meet the Akershus bench on 22 November – and they left with one wish that the Judicial Committee should at least mention this situation in the budgetary position. Both of these meetings were before the committee had the actual release of the vote, and so it was time for change. In the meeting, a cross-political expectation was created that this could be resolved. Follo is mentioned in the setting, but unfortunately as a minority comment from the opposition alone. The rapporteurs hoped for cooperation from the whole Akershus bench. They didn't. This is the background when we can read that the Workers' Party's representatives Eldegard and Kernli, from Akershus, state to the East German magazine on 29 November that there is little doubt that the Follo Police are getting too little resources. We've heard that, too, Eldegard, today. That's what the Right believes, too. That is why we have proposed 400 million. kr more than the government of the 2012 police districts. It has been a long time since the recognition that some police districts, such as Follo, are underfunded. Police coverage in this district has fallen since 2006. The work of two officials per 1 000 inhabitants is a far-reaching objective for Follo, with a coverage rate of only 1.09 – down from 1.29 in 2006. I will challenge the representatives of the Workers' Party, and Eldegard in particular, on the following: What is cooperation on a better police offer for the Workers' Party? Why does the Labour Party not want to reverse developments and vote in favour of the Right's proposal for more money to the police districts? Firegard shows understanding of Follo's challenges. This we must take seriously, she says here today. But the government is not in the party with the representative of Eldegard in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1138	After listening to the debate, all of a sudden, 3 minutes was very short, because there's a lot of things here that would have been exciting to comment on. I'm going to start with the broad consensus in Stortinget on increasing police personnel. There have been clear targets set, and the government continues to repeat that these targets are set. On 12 October Knut Storberget, who was then Minister of Justice, said here in the Chamber that, as we agree on the admission to the Police College, 'it is absolutely essential that we have all the good policemen we are trained to do'. Then I would like to comment on the use of numbers and statistics and how this is produced. The reality is that when people from the red-green parties talk about the amazing employment of educated policemen, there's a truth to modification. One thing is to be on the payroll, something else is to have work in the police department. The reality is that 10 pst. Of those who graduated from the Police College last spring, they have a permanent position in the police – 10 p.m. Of those who went out, have a firm position in the police! What we're talking about is using these resources. When I then heard from the representative, Bøhler, saying that when we now come up in the big hills, we can't deliver them right away, but it should be taken gradually. That means that this just escalates the wrong path. There is nothing, either in the budget or in the case of police resignation, that signals that a sudden will have many more places available. So in addition to all the police students coming out, there's a situation where there's now about to be cancelled policemen who want to get back into work. The gap is getting bigger and bigger. Since the Council of State has been so difficult to answer – and also the others from the Red-Green parties – about how the police coverage will be in 2012, I can at least give some of the answer. The police district had a police coverage of 1.56 in 2006. The current year they had 1.48. With the 2012 budget, they will receive 1.39. This means, then, that another police patrol is missing from office in the district of Agder. This is the reality of the current budget. So there are no signs of, no solutions to how all the good resources that are now being trained are to be put into use. Here it has to be taken a completely different way, and no one has given us the answer that it will happen. It cannot be taken by natural departure. We're waiting for concrete answers to this question.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1151	After listening to the debate here today, one can slowly wonder if it was a government change in 2005. For the spouse of a discharge after six years of power, one should look for a long time. If we ignore a small handful of police districts, the country's other police officers have experienced budgets that are getting tighter and tighter. Police coverage does not go the way that the government has promised, and the police officers are forced to cut and restructure. With today's evolution, the ambition of two policemen per 1,000 people is becoming an increasingly distant dream. It's not obvious that the police are there when you need it. The population is experiencing a police force that needs to give increasing priority to the events on which it can be traced. Police patrols in the districts who experience having several hours of driving where the event is are faced with completely impossible choices. The result is that minor offences are not followed up because the preparedness for more serious incidents needs to be maintained. The long-term effect of this is just to think about. Police empty rooms invite to crime, and that's not the way we can have it. Worst hits are tight police budgets police districts with challenging geography, long distances, poor communication and unpalatable roads. Many rapporteurs have good reason to be concerned whether the police have the necessary resources to be adequately targeted in the fight against crime and to give priority to important close police and prevention tasks among children and young people. Less presence of police and high levels of drug traffic is a very poor combination if we want to create safe communities. It is extremely important that scarce police resources are used correctly. My home police district, Midre Hålogaland, still has no prison grounds. The entire political leadership in recent years has been on the lookout for Lødningen, which is a current location for a prison, but with no results so far. Why do I bring this up? Well, it's because detonated prison capacity means that the police in Central Hålogaland have to travel from country to country and spend valuable police time and money transporting criminals to and from prisons. I hope the Minister of Justice agrees that this is the wrong use of the police's scarce resources. The right again calls for a solution for prison in the Mid-Hålogaland police district, which is probably the only police district that has no detention sites yet within its borders. It is necessary for both police and judicial authorities to meet their needs and to keep costs down. The representative Akhtar Chaudhry said in his speech that it was the task of the state to provide security for the inhabitants. That is entirely in agreement with the Right. That is why police coverage is a priority in the alternative budget of the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1172	Now there'll be almost some kind of right-wing fat here! I'll try to sum up the debate. The Council of State cannot respond to the increase in police coverage in 2012. And then we're going to have even more losses in relation to the goals we've set ourselves. So the council keeps the resistance to partial privacy being able to analyze DNA. But the Council of State is very much so that whole-time private people can analyze the content of PCs and mobile phones – understand what they want. The Council of State did not say a single word about where ‘stupid’ it is to reduce the admission to the KRUS in a situation where criminal services are more under pressure than ever, with more and more foreign criminals. Governments have not said anything about how we're going to get more transparency about PST's resource situation. The right-hand side expects a written feedback on how to involve the Storting in that work, so that we can get more information and create a stronger PST. The representative, Sylvi Graham, made an excellent account of why for several years the Right Party has believed that the government has broken the premise for what is happening in Follo. Now this representative gave himself up because some former, competent rapporteurs from Oppegård believed in the Council of State. I didn't. I prided myself on the previous rapporteur in Oppegård. She was wrong, and I was right. But it's unfortunately a sad situation, because now we're both sitting in this room today and agreeing that Follo is simply tricked. So Hagebakken was in on a little remark about the Civil Defense. Then I just want to remind you that in the last few years, the Right has proposed tens of millions to the Civil Defense. I think maybe I'd go a little bit quieter in the doors, considering that the former Council of State has been dangerously close to misinforming the Stortinge about the situation in Civil Defense. It is likely to be dealt with by the Control and Constitutional Committee and in this Chamber in a relatively short time, and it may be possible to read it later. Otherwise there was a question here as to whether it would have been a problem to have Per Sandberg as Minister of Justice. I think it would have been a very good idea, for example. to have Per Sandberg as Minister of State. At that time, the number of municipalities might have been considerably reduced in this country, which would allow for the treatment of the interaction reform and child protection and increase the competence of the public auxiliaries, which are not working well today, because they are scattered and because they are small professional environments. I think that might be a good idea, but we're not going to discuss a new government composition here in Stortinget. Hat crime: It was a very good contribution from the Labour Party representative. It's incredibly important that we agree on this. The only thing that's a little sad is that it's the Right that's driving you to get this kind of registration routine. In Oslo today, the person in contact with minorities may not have a good enough understanding of the environment and the challenges. Now you gradually expand the whole field to become a Rosa Competence Justice. That's good. I hope it succeeds. Finally, I would like to challenge the Council of State to clarify when it is possible to evaluate the dog law – it has not been said – and whether it can happen within a reasonable time. If the Council of State can guarantee this, we may consider making the proposal a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1193	In Sørlanden we have a project called Project Agder. The aim is to improve police services for the best interests of the Agder population, based on the funds allocated. After what I understand, it means that you want more visible police in the city and the countryside, that is, strengthening operational services. The police coverage in Agder is 1.39 pst. per 1000 inhabitants — had it been per capita, there would have been something else. It's too little. In the case of crime pressures in Agder per 1 000 inhabitants, it has been numbering over the years. 2 or 3 after Oslo. The district therefore faces major challenges related to organised and cross-border crime. This suggests that more police are needed in Agder. We have problems in Agder autumn, winter and spring, but we have extra big problems in the summer. Then the South is invaded by tourists. When I say "invaded", it's because it feels like this to us, but we view it as a positive invasion. This applies to people who usually live elsewhere in Norway, but there are also tourists from other countries. You can sometimes double the number of people living in cities and our towns there at home. I can understand, of course, that people like to move to South Africa, because there's no better place than Southland in the summer. Back to figures: seasonal fluctuations have not been taken into account when allocating funds to the districts. Everyone sees that when the population is doubled for several months of the year, we also need more resources, so that we can deploy larger forces to secure the population. South is especially in the summer. It is – yes, I can say – extra people everywhere, both on land and at sea. In a few years, I guess I can also say in the air. Let's draw out Arendal, which is the second largest municipality and city in the South. There are 42,000 people living here who are to be protected by 58 policemen or women, a number that, in my opinion, are irresponsible. I continue my calculations and ask whether it is right in one of the richest countries in the world that 58 policemen in Arendal normally serve 42,000 people. What service do our residents and tourists get when the number of inhabitants has suddenly doubled and tripled in a summer season, without a corresponding increase in the police? Maybe it's not surprising that the crime pressure in Agder is as high as it is, when the police forces are so small that they disappear in the crowd? What follow-up and security do we have?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1208	That there is a different perception of reality in this room at the opposition and at the position – not least the Minister of Justice – may not be so strange. At least it's okay to have the reality out there with ordinary people who meet the police is that you feel that things are being blamed even if the perpetrator is known, because you don't have time to deal with the case. It costs too much to deal with the case in relation to the criminal act that has been committed. It's at least the reality that people who meet the police, who have issues they ask for research and treatment, experience. So I've brought up with the Minister of Justice this with the LEN's offices. I am now recording that there is still a desire from police officers to shut down the canal offices, or to ‘put it down’ without doing so, because it does not help to have a canal office if the only thing left is the sign on the door – because inside there are no more people. I think it's important to have the local knowledge that's in many of the county's offices, in those who work there. That's why I'm very worried. In the Telemark police district, the chief of police has now merged Tokke and Fyresdal and hired one member of the county councils, who used to be two county councillors – or in Bamble, where it was formerly up against 20 police officers, where there are now four investigators and two in charge. It's something completely different than what was the assumption. This is a municipality with 14,000 inhabitants throughout the year – and almost twice in the summer, with people living within the municipality. It's a very serious concern. It does not help that the police chief and the Minister of Justice boast that they have received $12.2 million. More to the police district, when the result is that you have more than 20 vacant posts you do not employ people. We want the police out, we want the visible police, and we want the police to be local. It is important for most people – those who live around the municipalities. That's why I hope the Minister of Justice actually starts to look at what's going on around. In her answer, she says that the only thing the Minister of Justice and the Department now follow is where the boundaries are going, but you're not so concerned about what's going on inside, because it's left to the individual police officer. I think it is very regrettable, and I hope that the Minister of Justice will be able to respond to how she views this development, that more and more Länsmann offices are being closed down, and there will be fewer visible police in the streets. Bø and Sauherad were also merged. There would be more visible police officers in the district. So the result is that they are fewer than they were in one of the cannons' offices before they were merged. This is a development that we can't be familiar with. At least it is clear that the reality of the Minister of Justice and of me – and the one I get from the residents of Telemark – is different.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1221	As I said in my first post: I thought it was important to be busy using resources in the best possible way, and that efficiency is an important goal. Then it's also very important that we look at the results. It is important that we also take it into account in the debate and not germs of it, when the criminality of power and profit has been reduced by 25-30 p.m.. I think that's important. It's a little wonder to me that the Right is against such an efficiency. That's what I think is extremely strange. I would like to comment, because I got a little time at the end of my first post, that when I asked the police officer in Follo for preventive work, he answered me – and this is a little bit to André Oktay Dahl, who has just talked about municipal mergers – that he thought it was important to use the resources where the need is greater, and that one in many ways is less busy with the municipal boundaries. It seems to me that we should take it further – use the resources where the need is greatest. Nevertheless, I stand for everything I said in my first post. When we get such serious feedback from the vocabulary, we're going to take this seriously, and we're going to look at it. It's fine with a comment, but I think action is much better. The reorganisation shall be evaluated in the first half of 2012, it is agreed, and in the context of the performance reform, award criteria shall also be assessed. I really look forward to that, and I think it's as important as the comment that Right has made in the budget line.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1231	At the very end of the debate: I just want to point out what I said in my first post here today, that we want to be honest and to have a proper, common sense of reality. I got the line change because I said it's not like the police coverage – i.e. uniform policemen – has increased in all districts, it hasn't increased per 1,000 inhabitants. There will then be different results in different districts, as some representatives have described here. There's no doubt about it. However, with regard to the overall police force in Norway, when it comes to civilians who have been involved in the police since 2006, according to the Ministry of Renewal, Administration and Church, the number of annual works has increased by 1 600 in the period up to this year. The point is that we have to try to see that there is no simsalabim, no one can magic. The number of policemen we get in depends on how many are trained. The size has had a common plan — and common figures — for educational capacity — those who come out of the Police College and who can be admitted to the police. It's 422 this year. There's already about 320 working here. You can't shake that on your head, because the figures from the police department show how many people are at work. It is true that a large proportion of them have vicariates, things other than permanent jobs. So of those that went out in 2010, 95.5 pst. now working in the police department. Next year, 522 -- there's an increase of 100 from this year. But then, in 2013, as a result of this promise, it goes out of 720. The size has a common plan on how we're going to attack this to get the number of police officers up. It is quite right, as underlined here, that it is crucial, because there are different tasks in different districts. But what's fundamental to solving these problems, which can be done in different ways, is having enough policemen to get rid of them. We agree on this, and I believe that we should also be able to admit that today's police district budgeting system is designed so that it is not possible here and now to sit and calculate in detail how many are going to be per police district for the next year. The governance system is such that there is a letter from the Police Directorate to the police districts in January to February. There will be different dispositions in each district. If we're going to be able to control it in detail, we're going to have to add up to another budgeting regime, maybe discuss it in other contexts. Then there must be proposals on this, for example. related to the performance reform. We can guarantee what we're going to do, and what we're going to do is we're going to get the same good results for those who are newly educated this year, and for those who are newly educated next year – about 95 pst. have had a job in the last few years. [[President clubs]] We can guarantee that we will, but you can't guarantee the exact, complete number. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1242	The President asks the speakers to respect the measured speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1245	There have been a lot of questions about numbers today, and it is well that being a budget winner commits. However, measured after the debate, it should not be deleted that it is the justice sector in 2012. The right has challenged me on what kind of police coverage it is that we get next year. The budget for next year provides an opportunity for 343 new posts, including both the surplus of students leaving the Police College, for which funding has been provided – the 202 posts, plus reinforcement at the Oslo Police Chamber – and a number of other things. In addition, the full-year impact of the 108 year works that were included in the current year's budget comes to students who had completed their training this summer. It is known that districts are allocated a framework allocation to cover all costs incurred in the operation of police districts. It's pay, it's rent, it's energy, it's vehicle. Many in the hall today point out that the police officers are the ones who know best where the shoe prints. It is up to the individual police officer to decide how to use the money and what priority should be given from year to year. Then I get inquired when there are more from the Right and Advance Party who seem to want an annual management, and even for the districts, to meet the wishes and needs you had to see. Nor are there any police districts that have permanent job homes, so it is wrong to talk about vacations. But there is agreement in Police Norway that the goal is to increase police coverage to two police officers per thousand by 2020, and the government has followed up in line with this in the budgetary process. I thought it was such that the Progress Party had taken the order to lay down a number of LEN's offices, but I understand from the post by the representative Hoksrud that it does not include Bamble. I'm also a little busy with this DNA thing. I have no ideological objection to private laboratories, but the capacity is good in the public and the quality of the analyses as well. Then this new discussion about another check was a little sought out for me. It acts almost as an instrument to ensure that private suppliers fit in to do something that others consider to be professionally unnecessary. There will be a waste of public money in my world.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1258	On 21 November, the Evening Post wrote about Sturla Nøstvik. 36-year-old Nøstvik is a drummer in the Oslo band TIM, originally from Brønnøysund, but has lived in Oslo for 14 years. He's always felt safe in town, but he doesn't. In October this year, Sturla Nøstvik was brutally assaulted and ransacked on Greenland in Oslo. He assumed peace and no danger until he suddenly got a gunfight turned into his forehead. It was the beginning of 50 minutes as a hostage in the gangster's violence. He was deprived of credit cards and cash and threatened to enter the code of the mini bank card with a gun against his head. One and a half months later, he's sick and afraid to go out into town in the dark. Nøstvik is ransoffer nr. 351 in Greenland this year only. Over the last ten years, more than 4,000 people have been raided in the city centre and in the areas of Greenland police stations. As I understand it's about half the number of armed rants in the country. So a small area, a few square miles, has as much of this kind of gross crime as the whole of Norway. Yesterday, the Storting discussed the assaults in Oslo. Many of them have happened in the same area, and here we also find Norway’s largest drug trafficking. When Nøstvik contacted the police, he was told that ‘everybody has a right to feel safe’, but that the police did not have the opportunity to prevent the cranes. They only had two patrol cars out in the downtown streets that night. «We have lost the city» was the message ransoffer nr. 351 got in the police station. I lack words for the frustration I feel about my Oslo, my city, having such problems. The causes are complex, but it is an undeniable fact that a small part of Oslo bears a disproportionately large part of the country's burden. Since 2006, the overall police budget has increased sharply. The admission of police high school has doubled, and on 1 May 2010 there were 1,637 more annual police and prosecution work than in the autumn of 2005. We have put in place stricter penalties for violence and abuse, and crime trends are moving in the right direction. I am proud and satisfied with the government's criminal policy. The representatives Nesvik, Vokskesen and Hoksrud of the Progress Party have all pointed to the number of citizens as a decisive criterion for police coverage. Nesvik was also within long distances, the goods mentioned tourism. I think we have to apply other criteria. We must have the most police where most criminal acts are committed.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1275	I allow myself to hang a small appendix on the post just held by the representative Haugli from Oslo and the Workers' Party. He describes the situation in Oslo, and I just hang out and say yes. Follo police districts are in the periphery of Oslo, and many of the same challenges are spreading terribly easily the small 10 to 12 kilometres it is about. Then I want to say that, of course, as the rest of my party, I belong to those who believe that efficiency in the public sector is always necessary. It's the way we guarantee our citizens that we're always trying to make the best use of public money. We're for that, of course. This is also true of the reorganisation we have talked about today by Follo police districts and also by Hordaland police districts. It is also the case that the percentage of information has probably gone in the right direction, and I mentioned from this pulpit today that the chief of police, for example. In Follo have reason to be satisfied with the work he is doing there. They're doing a great job. Then we agree, both the representatives of the Labour Party and the representatives of the Right, that it is an objective that we should have two police officers per 1,000 inhabitants by 2020. Yes, if we agree on that, I don't understand why we can't get support for our 'boost' of the budget, which makes it possible. Comments are fine, said the representative Eldegard, but action is much more important. That's right. It's fine with evaluation. Yes, exactly, but it is even better to have the money finished budgeted if you find out in the evaluation that it is actually true that this police district or hint is underfunded and that you need more money. Then the action is to come and seek money in the next round. It's better to grant them now. It's like the representative from Oslo said, "It's more important to have enough policemen to get rid of those who need to be released than not to have it." Then I don't understand that you don't want to be part of the additional appropriations that the opposition, several of the parties, has called for to the police districts. It's not about annual management, it's about frameworks for real police coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1284	The meaning is no longer to make the debate, but I needed a few comments. The representative Boehler reported that I shook my head when it was about how many people were working in the police department. There we have to do an extra research both, I think, because I feel that way, and I've also got that in response from the former Minister of Justice, that we're talking about the number of those who are on the payrolls. It's something other than getting a job in the police, and we all agree that it's important to get the new police students out to work, and that they're going to work — and in permanent work — in the police. When it comes to some mention – and I have mentioned – of what the individual police districts have of staffing for the next year, it is linked to the fact that these police officers have people working, they have people to take seriously, they have to be predictable and plan for the next year, and of course they have already done so. They've taken all the signals they've got so far, over and planned from it. Therefore, when I talk about further decline, from 1.48 to 1.39 in terms of police coverage in Agder for next year, these are the concrete plans for Agder police district next year. They're added, and they're related, they're manned from. Then I must also be allowed to say that it does not help to get money for new jobs when existing budgets are not enough to maintain the old positions, so they have to cancel people. It is put on at one end and removed at the other end because of the operating costs. So a slightly different theme. I would like to congratulate and hang out with the representative, Eldegard, who is calling for an evaluation of the award criteria. I think that's absolutely necessary. You will forgive me that I am using my own police district as an example this time too, but Agder Police District – and the representative of the Progress Party was in it – is one of the districts that cannot catch up with many of the challenges. They have an extensive activity of captive transport for manufacturing and care, which takes a lot of resources. This is not taken into account in the criteria. We have a passenger port with large entries of people across the ports of Kristiansand. This has not been taken into account. We multiply the population on the coast in the summer and inland in the winter. This has not been taken into account. And there are living conditions challenges that present special challenges in districts, and are also not taken into account. We look forward to an evaluation of the award criteria being addressed, and recalling that spreadsheets are not suitable for using your head and taking into account local challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1295	I record that the Minister of Justice just mentioned one of the officers' offices I picked up. In fact, I brought up several lumbar carpentry offices and the problem around it. The problem is that when the police chief promises that there will be more police officers in the district, and the result is the very opposite where you reduce and lay down, it is very worrying. When you also have a police officer who says that people have to stop calling in and report and pick up small things, then you have a big problem. That's not how I want it to be, and it might not be so strange that part of the profit crime and other crime goes down, when you're encouraged not to contact the police to report or do anything about it. When many people who are exposed to burglaries, thefts, in addition, are told that they must meet the police, be questioned, and then feel that the matter is being blamed because there is too little money in each case – yes, people choose to stop reporting, because it takes too much time. Especially in business, where there may be a small enterprise, you choose to stop reporting instead of continuing to do so, and there is no good solution. I also think it is a problem when the police have no time and no resources to move out when there is a full-time truck on a rather busy road. These are just some of the examples that I experience in my own police district on challenges that people face in everyday life. The council says you shouldn't talk about vacations and that kind of thing, because it's not like that. The real world is that more than 20 police posts have been reduced to active service. That's how the police experience it in the Telemark police district. Then you shouldn't talk about vacations and other things, but I think it's important to be aware that it's the state, and that you don't have the resources to make sure that the positions you have are occupied. That's the result. As I said, one boasts that the budget has been increased by 4.5 p.m., but if it was sub-budgeted initially, it won't help. We know that most of it has disappeared in wage and price growth and that kind of thing, and then there will be no more police resources and more visible police. But that's what people expect. You want more visible police. Then I don't think the solution is just to shut down the janitor's offices and reduce the offer. I think it's important to make sure you have more resources, both in the districts and centrally.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1306	André Oktay Dahl has had the word twice before, and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1309	I can assure the representative of Eldegard that the right is concerned with efficiency. That is why it is saddened that the Eldegard party is voting against all the proposals Right has to improve efficiency, as well as more money for the police. So when it comes to the Follo trial, it took place against the Storting's premise for the police reform, and if Eldegard is in doubt about what the Right has meant about it, you can read the records from both question rounds and interpellations. So you made a comment. The representative, Mr. Eldegard and the Workers' Party, had weeks to discuss with the Right and put a note into the budget, which is therefore a governance document. But I'm recording that the representative Eldegard is more concerned with giving control signals by being eager to get in the local way than doing his job in the country's parliament. In the case of the post from the State Council on DNA, it was marked by some confusion, it must be said. It seems that there is no reason from the Right over five years for us to want more people to be analysed, namely more legal certainty and faster clarification for reasons such as: the victims of rape. I hope that the Council of State does not lay down as far as the Department of Forensics as some others have done for years.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1320	We are probably approaching the end of the justice debate. When we debate budgets, it is not unnatural that there is also a lot of talk about numbers. But it is also an opportunity, after hearing all the speeches, to make some thoughts, and my thoughts go in the direction that it is certainly not easy to be a Minister of Justice. On the one hand, we have the central government party, represented in the debate by the representative Klinge, who says that it is important at any price to maintain all the services, absolutely, and can overcome it with good arguments. Then we have the representative of the government party Labour Party, Eldegard, who says that borders are less important. Here we have to think differently and new, and in new directions – actually the true opposite of the representative Klinge. Then it ends with the representative Haugli of the Labour Party Government Party, who begins his intervention with a shocking and serious incident from Oslo, by which we were all strongly affected, but who is hanging in the loose air anyway, in the posts of the representative concerned, for the story ends with the fact that the representative is proud of the government's judicial policy, with the police coverage in Oslo, and that the police have lost the city, according to his own statement. I wonder where pride starts. This – these different signals – will then be linked to a comprehensive justice policy. I see the challenge with that. Therefore, it may also be explained that the only response of the government to the significant challenges we face is money – money, money and statistics. Right-wing calls for a direction in justice policy that we need more than ever, because challenges are increasing rapidly. In the past, our proposal to get a full police study for the police, which, according to our intention, would give that direction and the occasion for the National Assembly to gather on a general debate on the issue of social security, has been echoed. We have been down on that proposal. We have encouraged it again, and I hope the Storting can gather on that proposal to get that direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1329	If, after such a lengthy and thorough debate and argument from the government parties, the Right representatives do not understand and understand that there is a line and a direction of justice policy in the country, then we just have to realize that the Right does not get it. I will say the following: ‘The police have been budget winners many times in the last decade.’ [[...]] The figures are clear: the police budget has increased by 48 pst. since we took over. The budget of the Oslo Police Department has almost doubled. Crime's gone down. The percentage of information has increased. Then we have problems understanding the equation from the opposition. Watches, there's someone saying, there's vacations. With my limited Norwegian skills, I don't understand the term "vacances". The police get a budget. Within that budget, they shall have employment which they can afford. There's nothing called vacations. Either you have employees, or you don't. Some people need to help me understand the concept of "vaccination". So the right is very busy with DNA. Never have we heard praise from the former forensic institute, the RMI, now the Public Health Institute, the FHI, from the Right. The police give them praise. I mentioned that last week – 10 days ago – I was in conversation with the Oslo police. I didn't even hear that the FHI couldn't deliver. They can deliver, the police say. The right hand side has shifted the line now. In the past, they wanted to have competition because they thought the delivery was too bad. It took too long to deliver the tests. Now it's second opinion, now you've changed the line. But who has asked for «second opinion»? Have the courts asked for a second opinion? Don't they have faith in FHI?
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1345	I did not intend to extend this debate, but I jumped a little in the chair when the representative, Mr. Werp, said something that was directly wrong about my views on the structure of the police. I'm not rejecting restructuring where it fits. But I want to end by saying it so that if Right stops telling lies about the Center Party, we're going to stop telling the truth about them.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1352	The right line has been stuck all the way. We want increased legal certainty. That is, of course, the simple foundation that several representatives here clearly ignore. Akhtar Chaudhry says we don't see a line. Well, that line the government adds up to, we see very clearly, unfortunately. Let me use my own police district as an example: in 2006, there were 1.56 policemen per 1,000 inhabitants in the Agder police district. In 2012, the figure is 1.39. It's a very clear line. When Agder police districts were added new funds for 2011, there was an increase – when wage and price increases are removed – of $50,000 from 2010 to 2011. It's a very clear line! Right wants something completely different. Right wants a real reinforcement of the police. We want more policemen out there among people. We want greater legal certainty for those who want a second opinion. We know very well that all the policies are local, and so let me use a couple of new southern figures: In terms of crime, Agder -- this might shock a couple of my co-representatives -- actually as a no. 2 or 3, according to Oslo, measured per 1000 inhabitants. The award criteria for the seasonal variation police districts are not taken into account – although we know that my part of the country has many more summer guests than they do elsewhere in the country. There is considerable transport costs for the South African police district, all the time when this government does not want – we have seen from several Justice Ministers on several occasions – to look at the possibility of a prison in the region. In addition, there are significant living conditions problems. The sum is that Agder Police District is in a very difficult economic situation, which in turn goes back to the simple fact that the funds allocated are consumed by wage and price increases. Again, what you're left with is fewer policemen out there among people. It doesn't make much sense to refer to the number of millions added, when what actually happens, it's the exact opposite of the intention of the red-greens. I think it's strange to follow the debate from the sideline and see how the red-greens hit their chests and obviously go back to their own offices very pleased, and say, you know what, we've strengthened the budget, and so people are going to experience increased security. That's the opposite that's the case. With this budget, people will have less security – as we have seen with several other budgets – because there are fewer policemen out there among people. If you don't see that getting a second opinion – being present, using private DNA providers as well – is actually a police need, then it's no wonder, as Akhtar Chaudhry says, that we don't see a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1363	Åse Michaelsen has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1366	Now Stortinget has heard from my colleagues on the Agder bench how the stand is in Agder. But there is one thing that is forgotten in this debate, and that is actually the precariousness of the care situation. This applies throughout the country, not just in Agder, where one released 10–15 pieces two weeks ago that should not have been out. This applies throughout the country. There should have been much, much larger allocations in this area to secure custody sites.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1373	Akhtar Chaudhry has had the word twice before and gets the word to a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1376	I only have one minute, but I see there are a lot of right-wing representatives present. Then they have the opportunity to answer the following: What does the Right Now mean about DNA? Can Right Confess that the problem is so big – that it takes too much time too many times – and that's why we need a competing DNA laboratory? Is that the problem? If this is not the problem – this needs to be covered – is the problem ‘second opinion’? And then it's like this: Who's asking for a second opinion? Should we ask for it, or should the courts? Do not the courts have confidence in the results that come from FHI, because that is what must be the reason why you might want a second opinion? I hope that's a clear answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1381	Jan Bøhler has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1384	Since there's a short comment, I just want to say that we've got a little bit different signals here. Anders B. Werp made a post in which he also said that it is not only about money and statistics, but that it is also about direction. Then we'll get up very detailed things about the individual district that we don't assign directly to here from Stortinget. What I can say is that we're following this with how to bring in the police students now. Every fourteen days we get reports of how many people come in. We're better off this year than we did last year in taking in new high school police students. If we can keep doing that and we see that after a year, we get 95 pst. Of them, we will be able to increase police coverage in the years ahead. That's going to happen first and foremost from 2013, when 720 students go out for the first time. So it takes three years to train high school police students, so we had to start the high score from 2010 to get to the development Stortinget wants. There's no one else on Stortinget that has a different plan for how we're going to increase coverage. [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1393	The President asks the representative of Bøhler to respect the measured speaking time. Anders B. Werp has spoken twice earlier in the debate and has the floor for a brief comment, limited to 1 minute. The President is strict with speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1398	I have great respect for that, President! To the representative Akhtar Chaudhry and capacity in terms of DNA analysis: I refer to today's Drammen's Official Journal. It has been two weeks since an assault violence was reported in the Drammen. The police have not yet received the DNA response. I think it's a description of how this is today. With regard to the second answer, with regard to «second opinion», I refer to a report from the University of Bergen dated 15 June this year, which describes this problem area exactly as the Right takes it up from this pulpit. This must be taken into account. At least the representative of Chaudhry will not.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1407	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1415	Then we're ready to go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1423	In the course of the debate, four proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, by Per Sandberg, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 4, from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 and No 3, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The government is asking the government to intensify the process of joint location of police special services, helicopter services and police high school in the Oslo area.’ Proposal No. 3 sounds: ‘The Government is asked to review all aspects of the fall of rigging Deep Sea Driller, explaining both causes and responsibilities and clarifying any responsibility of the authorities towards survivors and survivors.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they support the proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1454	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to initiate the evaluation of the Dog Act during 2012.’ The Christian People's Party has announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1472	There is a vote on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asked to provide a guarantee of work for all police students who have completed their three-year police training so that they are entitled to work. The guarantee shall be valid up to the target of 2 officials per year. 1000 inhabitants have been reached.» The voting boards showed that 75 votes were cast against and 27 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 13.09.27]]
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1484	I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e1489	It's Friday afternoon, so we're taking up the proposal for a new vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e3702	The President has understood that the Advance Party and the Right want to vote against the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2011-12-02.ana.ud1812e3722	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
